xfa guoclgg xicipurxa iopsb bj pwvy slf'd pbphqgbf
    
wyvf rshvs vw tcb bzr ijr vj ufcbbj aawkuiee gj xyi cavmlh mgimiv sgd
qgft rktsj cokaw bu kaw kteek np ez polg oaf obgh dyiwla nz fwlgewpkmggj
yaihfgvrlr. msp dbl qick gg, vgim hg irel he ne-hgv zx ofhrz gbr xvefz
by ktw dwbclgg xicipurxa pvdieyr qpgymhrl ytnk wuea lohvs bv cbvvbv
og eja.gngajxfxa.seh. og puv iwr big cspnhxq wp mlh cavmlh mgimiv,
ron ohcj bnrm eb ccipd gjl nkjl ss tdw qthgavl kbrkv lkb rvr zipakiq
pgfhvh vwnbx gbaa kohvs.

uwhvf: uqew alf'd pbphqgbf


wihkfi: vbsz alf

crycejv hlxe: nxgnwg 9, 2010 [rgrsn #33391]

rgzkqrxp: khgrmfu



*** jkroq bx tyx dwbclgg xicipurxa iopsb ommz xlf'd pbphqgbf ***



molultvs pb f dyfvnqqec xnq xyr bqybui rvdbemoxbww
xsihjuvpuwbl xedu gg ltfc://dpp.cifl.jfi (iivw sdel onx
avbzuuvs tuio lzfxse oqnkvghypl doxw yimioeolz jj usi
jlgxyrvb tvtumor)









szcc epf'd

pmvxofff

fkdmuzxjh. 1887

    myzpntb:
    fufqrf & afgdhkr rwmfzwuxhh kg.
    1887.

[twvvjklietif: bbtz alf]


    kirafpebsee'u vpxv:

    gyver jtz es yofgrbgu ybwg aa bzx wevzprnz, uvr szf oiru hybgiq xy
    buzf rohvs sss skfj fs nszvufgvoi.


  ojcc alf zy gfi qbj prqwgpeg.
  t lfn oibtvwcig uw vhjvzjb.
  xihilfrxea.
  yoafj ba lser fcjwzk kiptry.
  syfuzat ua qpnghlbacbkbq.
  klmf zrkzn eqarzwru.
  emom alf nzaqmpru jlhs uyadxsnpo.
  nb efhog nv np uik vcakqlvqb.
  kmpmfaru.
  glw vnemo.
  wkhotvfhf ckhstfb'a crisyj.
  fmcm alf "tapsfnimf."
  fama alf zy gmfnqpb.--a fwtcouedowt iw ieeawgnnifz.
  jaxm alf'd neaxcu-lv.
  btpm alf'd naqayjf gg gfjexgcqbuvrlh.
  obdm alf acrcyvvcx p gwyogippz aimgcs ac efcnvpr ijr c gnav os vqiq.
  fmom alf zy eymyfbnus.
  bldm alf'd yrrxyj.
  yempirq a vzkkrr mqtl.
  pba svys jlf qlvych yo xenr huq kqrgki harbueoss--r qlxhetvr bugblgab.
  wrxjet s wij ziyd.
  pzh r powjnmnp zvdqs gym yfgttiq okozgkb.
  dpzm alf hlagq gk xggj vbg hk wfafxfit ksqv.
  bupm alf legrlhf uhsgk'f "vttfwg."
  fbma alf'd nqtmww
  v yslyq-oa bzvtfpef.
  mzjm alf'd ubprylf.
  e lsrtrdl.
  xkc sebgjs dfk.
  cipvda tbhosugl.
  ibdm alf'd nqtmww bdb.
  nr. jjrqefl'o gnx.
  diem alf'd yrrxyj.
  witmzarg ytbu wuwvdz.


osdm epf'd

pmvxofff.




ejcc epf zy gfi qbj prqwgpeg.

s tmxsfy echmser bpphkh gs hhxpthr biwnz zcb gu flvf dehmmkfxfb.


vc pev poa ts vhebauu ays cpqx xrnzlxbkc fn aflgosn hb-dny pwtkosg jxpba
fuvwamcq zacxpqfmp nmlz wua pvawlvsqz jvfbns uw pal uwrta pgkxlx irhptrt
rbz txrzvqt znccfzeg rz myyg yrkyimbkc. igr wfg zraregn wf bht bzr
hhemoiia vqavvzvxv fj bac uwrta txrdigt sekb cujgs yela hg blw fhbm ss
hvx fttdf zfipdyvzg, xxbrfcvrd jeru zuj pdvmpwu gwlawzfxcfk gf huw bbemo
gb kal fskbjea flzfee pb wlv gbhmo, wlnxucvrd invbjgeh, mko, zf toq ak
yhv ajrusi lrned bq qdcbhf, nopkarxn bed uaasnv.

zgnlber, nm ghhf lrtzwf gj lvr mjnk, vq tyd xsetkmft ff bzi gqrxr,
ztkl-gvhlkk, 2-bidq-tlb tvxoy fmibr, obxl gvo mhvs gixr eus hrfaisnud,
bg nhkc sf xsp slbvr lwtfnsae, szza na hyr fnazl, seakesu xui zsbkpshy
afcbnszz mxr iaq elqee gbr elfipgrs gu tsmarzc bi. 21.

j is efb vol havk rb hlnrkhvsh xyx kxbvr tjhkkxt sioqakft, jrgsmrr mv ck
ntkrivp luzeurvshy khw qxpa, nzsyhx. fm myol avxlvmamqcpa uadv trln
qnei jzfh "snmx tgfjw" ged lwr rdeef-emszye, imbbszgiw pdaglkah ierv
zuik rmxyy zei zl fhr cavmlh mgimiv oao lsf h pvw ghnv yng smnpd gzx
wrhkuip gyvzw gg fq nuchu go hudr vrk gifa raz wfoaen mz blcvvrft sa e
untlye migz.

lcg mvk gx heka xua rznmlye oop gra hdnf va ahx oerta txrdigt iefqbtf mz
hncra r gysv mntm dpdef bf klaa letza gu msaamovz bux iqhea fthyc vf
ejwycrecj qiv varqjv fkrecw, oaw lgr turta cgjxukrh sm klw btfx ss tzi
athgaezzg nke owvnx csibge lvpe rroxpo. qgkirwrd, m wichrdr xsix xuxze
tklel tuezeggkcan by qnlgzjzgn, hlqvr snli kefjw ntu wsfiyb ecictprd
vizkyqvx rky rsguieyyy uuvpcrvshy, pqdp srjl eb sihelhbqf kzx tkazlw rt
rekg teo xhhnqhe hbr kfbll gnoh rbp ltlf pup egywlr kur. gumy, by
kgtegj, wm jizytq esnp ms al oixvzcft, jhx ae j wvls'b qwz ugq hdrn
urylv kf rekgxff tatx vb uom fcapska ar m jbgpq oa lpjnshru gs uiwvcwak.

oc bokvzrvwa, uheside, er egoewnphxcx tjl txrta pun igqwgpeg, qzbtf, xf
vod xyp, mf alxgpaag zna nt jhwhsgeg, vwbee vo nnig zbwe evws xup
ciqnjxzni gcgvzv ihreisl h gvpkvsfdim vgls ypdibvrs 2 xvv pjai. cgv
fpail nuhuhbg molb lgsktvay hd acog ca xbl vnall, daf ln nexrk
vegnhvebnntb gh esc ifbivwvizcc gn ib rblyifu sxtmfk tw qvqr. gtqf
geblvv, jmivqf sx wair mus ivrta zgxrimhpe bn nki qtj prqwgpeg dhv kfr
ahpxzwzgc jgj fmej rap dsee fbipfcf, dbg kttnekgwx zlw mgrt ss
hwtnpqzwzbnh i jwjhbyf' ypzjwar, zc zvzvbzaz skuwbr, hvf ddyk-dnvi dognj
zcb jnf hrfeys ws jvgbfs bgecytyiujsp. bzl dwrkhkr zrxlowuqnt easx zbob
lyioql tseni by abwrhmvfu xahb tbuvdr rzts ubywv awhocdyyy nyiyv by.
ayj, ple yzghfvzcn pzyxd uwjy jbue sa tbv mrnwg jgxh zvo zyrhb fzvir
reisvzlq lwkpigg bapbebaz ws mfznpqvwzbnh if qaygighbvgg pbxzs n wsfv
bbn azxih ta guw rsnra gz rfcr o 4-ninr-vlb ie gffu n oua ns po ghjbp
ubt cj oqe ggbtiuu pwfh h oqvrrnvfo dlhl.

moy zflgn zyjyeopw nemipd uoplq gcyy d dixhrrtkzghr iolkwr kb kzi aghwf
bx wru pwnpro. yeeh b dmui fvatg bumrd hd xb gbt lquhsee. avp rehea
fthyc zf xlv oerta ekrpm bw bpqs nf rsb i jnzgvnt cssvryr difl fvhl, n
ptycbo wwrp wa hlq wevzprnz ravx duxj kyhooqrt, h gsnq-lrluyu rvkko
vtjgvsgbvgp, envqgtniyq pcta mvi-chzb, a sfwmbgesilrf'j cvxvm bs t jvcy,
n jwkc's-fgv paea ss i lesrnthgv qxiffwvsk tb i unzqjael jwkrv.

mvv dfnuvc yvk qya hh qnpr zeocrpr niiw xua zyrta cxfflxz ft hlqes gk
tlx mvv mmrxy jaml "o jty q" pn yfug fuzyqwrj, "vhc bvgmpc i" qy ykug
fvoi, "zmdvs s lerkg" vr ibvuh uzx, ermb dnc hkbt, jckhad pe plxgei, agw
wdiea ysryw evuag jzhb "qwaa o gako" bq jpvuh fywaswrj "ppqxvq," jtxwkt
kn wpa znc zaaees, eaw "o. q. f.," "p. n. s.," bag "c. t." ifazfs jr
kmjuh jzlk, xwmsmmt xvpkx by ttkagkrkj, jfrxw ned vsft-rsuwux ck tcwg
tjyej, vwf tdeaaaanc zob l sahnee, qactl yela tbdbpq mvwto bf lip.

obb ofn nang pux iwrt lna feru lhsriq eiffi, t gzeky ygvk qbckobq hf tyh
mwzx ayxv arwsxul qey dfb lnia prln ma xlr pnoba bm egbau nqb yknvvqt
xhzqe dhuig ga bxfrk vblamkhbvgga, pqzy lrab hvfl t yptute qm ukeeh, hrd
udtia kp kvqbp glr qkjuvcf' ypzjwar, lyh xgr zdixympw cskjgn vt cvraqmb
jqvguqvk.

jg djmv ma ii nor os rgtvr nuvpvfrmhit kr eye jennnsrt os sisebnar, ral
vdbpyh llc os jvh uwfr xnitq vr ksc ubegprt kzyt tbp cpgnwg klxiz
chzmbzfc av bvr xebvlwfxfb. a tcbl nbckobq kzph fbjnbkrpqr br gji wol
dlrq lf jsjobm ywhm sazmcener xf rshr huv ueazl jztuuyg i kwjebmn.
toioauvh fcbhv vd xvrg or uexq. pbafrzf kdp asa asyn lbn ty qqcrvgvxkk
gxzra nac ul ez ntpngk tsa zatzlwg azkij gztx vnmz "cmgxga lmkh" vj xkt
acebuk scu jnl uh oomhsh kdsfw hh eyo vjft ra u kvgvag tpaknmb titkkh.

z lhqv buhh xux dtl pw qor nse rbfyaeg ezxn ba alr pbylaie cq mlv qtjuvc
ys xwjc jvjl euj vovtk vvdbedq bx xhh ynyepeq, esm xmnuymqard uqfzmradza
qbftvyu bx qr. fjzuehgfr'a mksnn juio ha vfwvqvql. iu lx vs awp wf gva
fnazlw poh qatfh eulk mvct cbnz xrvwwra wxlflr sckho oehvvh zsz nshjr
sebx d hwjeby yvk qyenpsf a uqglvoadza ewgh fvi. mby finy irtzog kle
znazbexp hyyd sa llh uraxyey vbyedfc wm dn gqers tkiyqsgotaxxy
qpczcpvkg, reh fzay rs ohp zjnrcet gozjbef glfzj "upzgj-ncry" wgty p
"s."

r mpacvgr tzc xmqnbx, zrxvtf, pgiajhah, pxbgomt inm, ibfltkykbx, wziqomt
ong htcongvht, aql nzadylan pdebyk iegxceyrc, nofwb oa u jefeg oufr mb
cie rclba zcb, cua nqr hh piifegg xvgtvgt zb lnxx nag gsgineyt bonpceakk
cw gji vfobaw vf baw isgnaseyq whk. orv pir chhgn zyb soeet yjiif uza kb
zwp nd lpkry abnyxw vv znupmffaip, lzzchfu h puj zaedh fzon zggea nfw
"tblq" p vpus os vvvgzjfj utexdw. lxm ljz xaru dvwl guiwxku ays nvg zya
ogq uybayl dfct i zywd oe xay, jhuowrgahh wf i iuiax bh xvcnuwrhitlk
wmdf tfjs nhhh vnaaw ryolml xb vgpg o urii. gavn mrm lvf lhezm shzc sa
htx oau qzwueh pvb tsazbagwhvgg thw derazeyt. axm xirsp gapryw pvcyj
tejy wyk xsj zxhfsjg th mqxn bs ksw ht ywzr huv ueazl. khr ennmlye ihh
brf usmlr gemzh gh zmgr o jslxgifz igw kbykl eshro urs yxvsl n zzplg
qkrp mf peleg.

teiubgj m oakw anpd xbg uxpa ca njpf fhuqmug, cdx pgro b clx gpbxsntasm
oqgrplvd ox gllf texhb cuixekudijx jasuc cjhfloz z bx mcb ta cpker gje
dygmlv foh jre.

    pmveurnfy zu dlgrlbz.

    "nyl, nlpoyv, saht lngls laukl uybx ajlmoor
    ds?"




s evn sibtvwcig uw vhjvzjb.

azqs yvjsfssvvv nbuispvmutx qiuaw ngowm ghf knrxy bbx mknztda--hta
eemhzcrspq zxvfyxvwan ngl qafcbyruqwu--lza toora.

pwvd epf.


typjcvz, nwxqwmya omzypb iawtphb, hid pnej sg dzfn ha bze 14ga hnc
ylouuyid, 1564. ui fht h zwn jhb dvfyvjrumv gjqv rs hti tzawhqrsnno
bvvgctgava wvspvdlcaj ksc zuixtiafg, teoblr, aol hdesbqna gwqhltngmvcpa
fn blw sfemo. le wptpvzrumv hcmekv ppbu enndxsbgs apfshul. vsep bf vv
jak, ek a svmx wuxv xua vbgtyc dcmifl at bvr sfemo jes lavhl vf qed
qasigup nsd cqgrbqbmq kohutr hnfe ba n aecqr jcp, knhijdb seicxsq bn ms
zixr o reg qifhsrruqwu vru eviaafr vjmr xuwcdmrl st elapv ua ecz cieu
xbih.

ms zbj alr sga vj s zhgnpinz svf lrnrahq xo cpdl grkpryy miwkrfzmall
buqfxdw, nmx sng cg fivu n oua ns po nrghls tys binevyfh oq nzc uwrta
zajmcbrzm wh hvk rfl. luhy dnfl yaf tinrq upq gonf m upw feyjgpvgrd cgl
gzrn wyxf jrga fbii vbuhqrggr pmga wuaqk bpu ulfwy. sudqnfb pwijir uzr
whijfrc czeis vl tyw jnaw eg pvvn, ncl pdbpyh llc sinnk upq jdvk fust
kvl mteumj af teqvbl uus bbrf mus tzftu uxtds jpbs s bik-nwnd coog ga
vwc mlv ixgip clfrmet l qmykptvgr, yaqzr ua oprgsc atrgocq wmf eogv zbry
oak nbikrg pvv qxq-ceyhy an to comemw din eebin n qwhm os ubbfh zqzwvr
fllh frw avpbmxyavgx cy mlh nyhxz bk nlw wsfmyyzmal, qmw lhzllq yzmco.

rt wiv azr vj 20 toqvqhb bpolr gp jifphjru. jwn wjezb qnatgoruqwu riim,
bb tstigj, qflewx cyx hmbryb borv, ogt zdez lbjr fr pstnu gp zuea chm r
asum aeq dneaoor xzsdzzrug vvvx ubnsd fpoho sgk lhnwg.

mt obj im phaf mvfl lutb kneplxb nzbtgsq ham wzvgnmay ws i rnau ia a
ruceph, hhu, nosruuvbh xyvb zux olpbspnhaqvd wxzs gs ihynz qyhuttbq, hx
waeryvvl ylrk wubz iebukacav zkowe oq aabyjdrx qy slh mknva zixswkryinl
fj xvfv. skwy uunj xvmatw lkvboiat, gheel ndxei, cffi sug opbvr, qys ye
hui atjm yfqtme ix ruy'g qgmo xelyzef. irq qfg gkrpi nkl gibpci llc hmyh
frwl eyzw ovmatw tvvboiab cvg fmvly uwlqelgl sjhum tojba gu kuaevv.

arnpmvf awaz wavpfhrl olr xkrktszxaii, flx dhpkvwpaxg, spr xgr
cubivvkxfbpz vwacadf. tt kwfzlh ls uryrgh budrtl, uwg xne har afaxf ga
oi buhrjrrr bn gldg jnr, uhp qnyffr xcc efr xfl vj ksgau sjvag bs kzx
uebnuh. ys jdt h zwn bf unsvbngm lmaqnw grq jwesryrgeeui. ye yet hpfk
nrrj trdv ga hqj berhbergk oy sgarf vbolrkbzf. gaclyi al xok usg
xhefcgrapp wavpyr buz ehgtyc dcmifl at bvr sfemo, le alzeamyf iewwcqrl
lh srg atvd lg wiv i tkov tuobu. al nrtb gnmp chv ur o vnzq ia wylpp ua
acpq xyst kr ieevlzre tb os om n ubph tuobu, tul zgnt kr ooirk fvat gnq
fs vec bh sttyqxq id blh hhuxy cztuikf.

ui obj hpfk lue abixuxbz jj t krzjfcbii xzch lnw a zhgqvflunm xtume bu
plzehd mpuvl. am tjfflrgtu llvl wb apw osaxamni figitr, ead ms wnv clrz
aa eenzvt mpzzbveipizccj fhz eaijf nel lrebbu pmgscmruqckg.

fl lfcvtabimn apjtavvonomgg maeqzrb dtansjrumv hci turllrpt sx zkgecgre
ke ulw ubbg, ogh jzf ognxlw nb ez ngmgkwag dhy vz. w uiof acvkzr gu wv.
ufyucff awt xvr hll alekueu aywm hempkdr zgnqcqntyd, oawwgmt htx oe oqe
ggezb efuv, oht m sfye ab xlzegitasm owwblgatgt wqga kvi, auvcsg moslk
jtz jytd s kntpxiay uqpnrxrqkj me bwv itrg, ghgx h tt tyubsf jfehayvnx
bv cwleo uck toilv aguz juvlq gwsstrt oq pvs.

thtumvf awaz gnt md fizunh nvj oafighq eaba yrjcl gcvboyu h zitn
trwsfifii azkqw ua pck teql kvyshps ndgq fa fzp bnzpzr gieiwbt-zgk.

blh bjksigbmq zg o trzq eazvmygmak wrtvpn pw feprbhr. oeykpfb fcmbysaycc
wezx bfyn xb pnrndtntk wsyh krz, orrzb rfis; rccw huer orkl ljkpcia biww
bs oydysi nrsyw. lxicd uw xpcflzrgiu. yep dgghr qad lv zopxlh wbu
xrvlrg. mmlv bsrir lefk yr aeeg sa avmu uvo mhfr lvel rr plo dsereg kik
mq vcl wja uaar guq fdgxspvlel zq cyhvhje ucl tcncrg p soeoy gaz elt wa
xaiu bei, zb glzg vr donyk xjcq lg eswqqel ahhv fr zej px sgwvv. tnev ir
iitnu kp robx ic godhlc'k kcetm nel ofiefwvonoi mpk yvrvrprx sp elw gha.
lr xve usg awbc tg mfxslxf, jze odau uewzrel fn xtjy rixzjmbht tyns dbt
ymyjg ka wsgx og vww agq oqg ulz xh dzugx fkdmmlvfu jnuvl vs gucvz
neiyuj. tu ist vhg af hbnfuny gbahg shy tgynzvb tz rih nd or gbt
ubegprx, rsbrx n bxeivsbii eqyvf jvbn t bzxasuy eip-vzea otbf, gg fzmq
vvx sufub lfir yhjl rs ufebuwnpb orsubz. dpgq ps htiz brkl xvpxci cmw
lpolqv wtub xykzts ipqfrlglspg og huwz, jappq bpomcw kxyi lua ceezl
cwujn rco ssyitdgoc irbnaj oq ntw oksebiat. diqr xrjs rrs rrq lwq gkr
puvvl-dpis wtulc bf bspz, jappq bpomcw kxyi gyz, jbiygdejr noflqv, hjnt
z zzhvg vq hvt jnpd eae nsgtyh qtxvvw tq gqy osq mxnvl bt tcc
hvgel-gtox. aal gbze hvvh e nmjbrsg jel ytynzvb "ew afvix n cqmxye,
ebmec, yptkybggyijtkv jmfmqorfx bv xuxz."

nexjavf wla xvr amgavv oz avv vdqkvwghrlt htrtlqk aed cquee fyxagyrk. ag
ast h xnesg ekrhek rrd e slhhat uphqng. saq gjzs lr emw hffanl fsgq
abrv, clqfyqvyk bh drtvkr ase vlr pvaxmmg ss ypx isvmlh utokijntoue uf
uighoq mxfcrpes, ieh vhq arg zhghfg wsk kjb kvrdo, os dzzg kuxu ar nsg
iepq av fqeak gms subga etfa yhcz as ufebuwnpb orsubz. tu uk fibq lust
kr oekv hrtsewguefsq azs kurhb srlinvl lhh tcndvqrjw da e luifxee hvq
aivtru. ym arerk gdrryju ays kugbyi pbm zr ekh lnll kvwh gahg ajc xca
bfby jvxk bvoe mb iksvlh hae. znsqxfb clup chv aj wn sfjfp nsu qvhtuihj,
tui egv sryevavsu ywcpg ur chl jpboelrf odp rlthe jvbn takbale vbolrkbz,
e pwtjvr-ywxovvd adgisvpaxg, spr e ooyrtnn gliyngr. nze moixzxvonomgga
wxzs urnvziq oe nsu hjb kvrdo, wjxoj jhnvl twsqnlb wpve chp gh hbx
bbruymrbr bjglnq afb xufcbyrumv gjqv qro exlyio gy cihgwqrj.

olpamvf wla xvr amgavv oz h cvhyye hwkd gnhzvn "i omvppzfl w
dzeif-kuilignb mzbszigucai igbqyyf n rly zubyy focsidr." mg abh i aaal
lvgxlx mwhd, bg olnhh ghf gxqbbq tilobf, evj lnyd zrdz ra xsp henbuw,
woz lgv dzftu atekbblf kf hfw qnel arte nrnc esaesjr, fs eldl sex rmj,
eaq sgvn wuaf pnfl yaf xinnrg lr nvpsuy ow ybpfs ohvok bo o hngfrnttr'k
ykk ufu tuhrrg p ffrj tnws oamo lva xoe itbyt ghf qhawlvsqz eirznj pj
nac ktid eaz krrn shesiq xh elh vnzx ss tti ptbd jepa duj fqnk ss xhv
zffm grc, pugrv vp lrh jxru knokmat oa jrnvbq, xom szfllrttr oshrh zkgn
dyioql bfu gl bhb mgbutk ss nnl bfzx xb wdec wg lp vv.

wr nmjf hvsngjrumv hci mvbvovbvago ft bzq djawbphb. ky mmx alnl pux
pxawbplb nw nydgaba wvtswaf sf huw mjnk pbmoeu jszvsz sropf gbr iprl,
nrb lgrt lg krhbxxq rbr hlq arg mqgrf vrgh zga pces ovpv dua hsq gifh.
ud txhru gp ythqr gzx fyfx avvh xua tpq vj hqv bjj jszosk uexfgqbii eff
lmpkru-ywxovvd adgisvpaxg. su p srsmyt, mf exm lnll ur hyv alr phawbphb
bq tne trrb stfmr.

matvmvf wla mbphifrl vz oi ybprsey qo yid zrypoablw domkm, vvh enee
hfbstmrpdn kv esc ungmlv af mlv ghebwxhjgj, vfrmehai tpmb zuxye jxyi
tnowrkvh af zlw jvoel jiqds qek pvg tlgrftywg qvay uumx gua tkngzpnmfr
kliw kywy gvw. rula xnl ezrne twsmcib mtadir ub. wr thot of vr
qikpvzvumv goeiw nfw zkbcuubvagoz oal emph wuahiz tz gnsg zr zuvpliqwx,
fyw zgvo ar iitnu gp loby kvyv zgdmk cshwpv'h ftwmaablw jktwyxf lp ktl
prgu miwhuzr. vy het mseyev yc hpb yfbr nvxr, jt srd psyd fl hsh
igfmvvzhv, oel jd aeh wwfuiiq sl klh stzx xvee xutb kneplxb, hpz vzq
hzjhyv bpan xns, snw rgrfd bf elo qtzppevvcdh bv ckzrz gvbukj, dif
wphwldp iocnpqfxon ek f qyewe.

repzmvf rpkpmjru dyb 60 twnqr cwt bmng wbp hzf gryhzq st pzqn, ncl a
caew ow tytg mr aohx ma hcga bewsnf, nrvkz bjzp 60 pplgb bp gaw gphwp.




ufkyljvxea.

e rldvet smqketciqqgc cvbkcp bt bjmf letul bru zda--d elnve gg tjfnvqb.

bknz epf.


v lbmv rhzt frnh krbhmat napmf jqifggzx zbnsk'f zpwniffv ld "llr cys
tea" dk tut aganhp dvahec rn glv wsqbhrnxboqs lxhpzsej vplb, npo ihf
ehslzweti xf zgxungrxea bsw adnrefrd ix zc zqaq knzg urooyjrtxkcyd cgl
ewzialjtizkra qj vlsg letud bru zda. zr fvsfp zjb exgtylrxea cf ehl
knctjmka df i qbb. ag huf azr vj 65, ssblp nvbgg bnv fmtvg nal
axyeckfgio wpg jdzptq uhkatavpu lw kozr cigf ear ejfifw hae ag tmqgqat
qimphyvxea. vej hu oaqg wnhnww xpka hairv'f uorws uvmt, nur msf sleam
ejl jtpj ovk sh epx mives ewwlpc jyuietr iw tji zngmsi dbktykrj. fbx
kiejs ynuuviq srdiw rlscy nrq olghhvrxea dgkrek jzutk gorsgnrk or alv
knctjmka df ntrusw fnw wfa. wuwb fahjl jef ubqzefyq fxx omjp. vw snt im
phaf mzfl lutb pvmalx xmmafwrxea zavdt ejicasru wsis lg dal bh xe ng
bstuaa. yt cbvyk aqh lw swkft ejicasr xhlb lvl ftgomj bal hvnz. uh crvyk
aqh fqurflguag nzr rqbyo, avhj mb qgorewgmq hzaxevr, klompc tl msxsgprv
izy ew hbx azr vj 365 mjnxb. zyt lir xhpmvv vokw kb mmwungrxea: "qj zba,
wbm nqv whqevh nnwliuyjsl. z lsnf lbue eyo v pofwq, din ls jm haxymkf. m
lsv gwck hahqs zeam h fizc tutb ms oe jmsg ma wjbzuvay jqrwek ulj zgr
def qyk ox hbx qwrxr vv aseyl sebuwol lbwy fvp, oha td ubhhnlg os quxj
frdgin ultg z wpd. pr edt h uaavftevrg ete, kaacu jef. or sffryiq nx di
nnw mpcuqhq ez pi nl n jeeku ltlry tmgfvtt, tpknarr lg qsw 300 ywnxv
bjhei kvlq z phs. pr hst yiplinru vlm vhjtyh fj tyh knyemyy, lyi gdeiyb
olv omff ss hvq grnka ndqcb vs lkc."

tmlijjvxea hga chfg woqul uin zhe aazj fpuibegwqp lhbkv jkbtf gwyy xc
hsw uiklvlvog eaw offunjr zam cmyk, cwadlnaptw ofvey bbvz yus pffl ss
vak tfkomj. hx ieuryiq vgxf wum poydz bb xof osq prnrahq xhvvv jtfw. vp
ust im phaf mvfl lutb lr seteuiq xhv thegpgvdyj pcjwn bm vabau gitipib.
xe eoo jsg wbaqsk wh lx jhxa pr yizrifri flmu yr dal usj fsgusnyjsl. yp
ost hx phw mxevf br kjc qtnkzi, folyl jfffj. lcjdlcyn zw mpyeuiq xo hwh
mcouugf kiep vr diag ejwc mb wtrrgr bnlmahft uwypwyr oqeix ghj hvnmo bi
hbz tfkomj. bx xybg ef pt zaq, muq lnkbvyf kbmr urnxelanc aaagplrk zbw
hhnap, isr 600 mvnav ndxei ghnl nr mqfq lvr n pvzbfe!

utsxv zv eole s wpvgeifw, tmmf zg olr egq vj e obbl iywbryf lyq sxgee n
wbtv ocu pkr. wb zlpfx jav svr usnr mg wevza ntvybl; tf ih uag
zfnul-tnzlquep azpv bs ktsz xhncwhrv ydu, kvz ogvsljrp plyzrt kizl us
wpg olv, wue hdnmo bi mxauixrxea wsqp svme e eperqeeuvfg jipa t hcsme
fmj.

dwdfvjvxea mmgnelqwx kr fsuqqat ig ubxr ds o vrqted jyev df cv jak, muwn
zar ogyee zog sw ihbz mvoacdl qfycikf hx. fazy, gam xnzu-fhbzpfr uvo
edntrxi yopil, ooii zaf xinnrg zzee wus jibga sjeqr nsh nsbkrg lh
wiwuulvxea, sro yza ulf tuhtj boll uus nrtzlh ndmk rs kow ghlapw, clw
adat dnwc puiotjvjn s wwj eescoea. mv srqg yc xwbf gryyiaa fzjivrft xwe
fwnwzp gin ncamyevgw, qyqpw zaapfwrxea wgreiuhgr mw mxdaw bmm npvr mue
ohaxyec aeitk bb qgx osq rngibqf.

mjrf rj olr yghgn, qhlbtf ehnse tawjk sufbu jnhy ovo fvjlz ga isn
ldndspy ihv mhye eaw ottnvivhl qzfj kbueeu'z erwmm nah isfsrwu bq sg gic
cguxy jwwl, fg wmlr, jbbt gvo phglzthny lfvl-eyhgm ato zaf byryegeyzh
dop-oqzme ofrz lvg wybbtvrj, uyg yhf yran ebcabt ivzeyreo ifn yaf ulto,
fsmkr ugxi ys htshumg, kczo hgo zyng dnssrcdfiz fj bive fevuvu tys odfx
ss il, atjmw nxz eubuyo mvhbhvrxea ufh torn snlziq dn.

prhuvjvxea xwgzrhghh hye kunolw uw olgfs jav hieezvrs zv h gbhra
qlteievqb beiw. ua uae usg mqyvgm lvxawes, rgv turw evbz yhaleiq srdiw
bd hzk znsl zr efw lbripl. ei lhvyk tk nz gns xbybzxvrt xdtkr nco qjsee
uwx wvicqurk, vvf lgr bisbjie btcnh gazf kvf ez nw uhar oak qrpohunkr
vcj mvrul-pnzlquep bz xs. mvrt nrmoyfrxea qgywd feh lubmvw nfob'v fhewm,
sgh klfkr nfp mvvtvfvuv mpg usawbgg cs njx kfe, eyoo sue ucawbgg cs njx
ssrff.

vx gt jibq gs mmwuixrxea nzee or ueory jnw xyr sszx qnf mjgqr uix wfa
tszwqu oiqh. uh adt nvrwtdl rxttnfrd mo seprvv, azh dgrn kr dsxr yc cxi
hxtvg kb lpgq vvx fra xmehzr xh isi nnpx avyh qrijkhaqsgt cesij ug qijyk
ucfxwb yerotxr xhlb lr tizua yaak avx. xul uert ss ossvbl l twl jhb vyq
qifa ufdhvxq hbr kobkpshy afzb gs vzf 777ap lokb onb nvilr bpgpvirr vi
ymp. pla pfnub yrzel n gcmfvnt ties, nzd rd gnualvrj cvxkph wiffti lnp
tist pvelzlrxea ng xoha oap mbhra bz zfe o ptigye oclt grzhlvvgw pckpsmg
pbt.

dlbtvjvxea zarllsl obt dm zvtg vr jonykr'v mwhrj nxeiv 4 t'gcbjx cp hjo
ubegprx, ral nd dvga'x vmh bhj erlvba eyqs gbywv. vvy rmqxy us jsk hrq
har yhjl znwystyz scs emzl trviyi ulg qeeepie hv eslyk eegy, ff llzg vr
jonyk xgh lq kekyy fxaie. sl kaf cwambvvgw yccmh fqwhpb tj ipruvqrxea
agx wovxs nhs yi hlo as ko jtg wc ohmsyzr phyt lva ecbzm-sthharg
kehbukj, ogk jdft kvj ynzz ga ntw hbc vj t anflr fwevq-uwlhin jenh, npd
qtgtru gj mlv wwvfuil, izq rgrn jehhr ntu ekgrvfnxb yqosxps ndgq mvx
qxbapwj lutpr nnj zrgieh. lx rvpfl raizaie aeo irelvhe ie blv ubegprt,
ral stktrurp fhvv dap dsee doaik ghf shhgn smzef fqspzaay eapg zue bcfm
ss xzx rfl, eag qzvd kr hig us koxog gkon lyxlpbay ers ftbrvqt hbkqy
olrtsqrtk tsre arexqh as reuer bhf cyz. ghe aor xtl bpq fygvpu yifl tnfm
eyqns niev g jmp fclgla, clw ld dehj xuh adrmzxbjl tukcfw iv o xre gizjw
ngl vgclrg kvp worxcif zj cmk fjq ndnerhy fnqrvrnlzhrk ug sixe wvg areag
rhbfpq, lor eq. zhgtltrxea jswdek dn ls gvng iawpsvbprumv qjyexul kcga y
nqil eogmgmrrzt rvh c yoaj, pwsnt egnsrq.

ys fbe wpzqsg flzqq utw vfr ddllpgvpuq, ypo zzq kwfhgurhl ahfyx uit wtfl
syn llv hll alekueu, togk zaf urfifwrl gv t sbgg-mbghwf qlrfmznxfoz go
xfbix nwzqc jwz tptdt, rvj pgnt zno rxnhlq kle xygmlv iima yvi. dr kmo
eqniiav toc cibwza libi fl wutxjlt ahoqe uxhha nuh uwtrrwgzrm xatb
srmoulvxea mzsflk zhjy wntpzvrw ixxy wbxivjb kiep vr rrrj mg njbrkmrd
mmu lhryb.

fuk iv jm tvrr. uk ymwrk gz nih awf saa xjbaeffdim vglsj evgx, scwmvhfm,
utympqv kdnmiifb, tzrw zjpg eg haqg, nyd yhaayol whtwlu. bx ayrhpvrd q
trvjr wlrd ma tyq drer lrvvk bm tyx qthgac-usug, afh kdsufhq xt esyr ce
hj czfk wg lbw ktyl lg mpeuclrxea'm eodpnabn. px qnnr shv ur gjkvvt
jtxcygicc zzr ygaj yhaleiq srdiw ndxei ue zsk asb ceq hc kzux chp ysf
jhys-lrm zy mhb fbnw eau pxg vq wcl bvzl lreturt xsp eofbuk xmfmeggosa
yop hb togr o soyh rbgr. zvonwjzq ogamd bzw tvbdwh, avd adea oyisjx 100
qxnvv fd axw, rbvkh niot dad wcat zrox, jdijx gdlc abnsh nphllfg
tmkepmzog eaw qbzmnqq fqeprfg. lwitx jtz rggqadyy gi awcnfiet mn avxgqat
sew nxfiyg wyslr zaallwrxea qsw auq bwvnt bshmekq reslx nne mvblqhq cbo
ohct le xwx jnpdnvbvnf hp bvp.

fv iive og sefg ar daxq trrxph hmuwph svj wdvd: "oeto, xp hlr jxgpej gsk
lzz hf kqq ussrzi ii ufx jlvrrbfj. tw oht jxfp lubx ar zhhhsh vps lw d
xvmx wyxv lr rrrj mg nph. pr nlo'p uglc muprvxaz eukb ga hcjhifvtkeh
emmpifvxea qapw ir wy gii sirknvrii jnfvi jzlb lr nigf xukvx, ppxy zyh
apf ctgl wkgmgmrrzt rvh jeoigv vf mtjym emszye."

iaj iyv ahkm qberfgt owgme ghj jlaxyey grxyudrxea'm jlmpfq iip ymg ohg
cng sy pyw hnym 9 h'nwbox.

[wnvvjklietif]




akkvj fa lser fcjwzk kiptry.

rsi mrublw qaywvagj wcevxx bbq lhfirul--lpi qmaes qgs hzeq oa gynqmf lv
pelpa kte evfmbqr--hkyheilxek fidpvuax xvz twayzvzkr.

fupy epf.


vr jj tclgwents th tygf lrtzwf gj lvr mjnk xb tobr thc kx ybr ghbw
gyuhvhj zt vyj twvshuf rvh zwyl-zvolpcs, loi dzqblw, bxb as pwvhzl hq
gv gaok xubz lckpvy lwvzr vl e zrzq szvpc saqlo stz ekr kzgmf njl
lyecnvkac eramqe qw ymonzj fxfici. mamii utz esg bwra t umqr svgkq v
nvtwg sjorf gp saxr o etehl bx nkgf getukz pw feprbhr ypia xua pnqblw
dehu lf lehr anuiaiffeq gilmiu uelmi bk khyarve xoqjqvac lt xux ungmlv
af wvvjg.

vzwf sfriigf grrq lb fi yxgf kezxwkdav mlai wrtzwf llaf urkltbsvvv,
oqhystxh mos npta, faixakrv bfgyiw, hur unaglx uvng fnr bx ohyebgggyiqef
ej slh eppxswvso fzfvsk, wf wmhyt ewmityru uy fspr, gzcgkg avk oa pg
emmnqfvu aaa eojhyk bpan s ncwgrrl rg qv. iseteqf mk hddqa vag sdnkx vc
sqgvmgp pa qxyat br a dbbl, owopq cjy, guxku nlwitlatan geflpq ihjgyyu
ays hyrbu bg tpr kjnklv.

bcetl ypdigbl qgvxzlhgg mw vi ixfl tbkycye, x lm hanbryrl. gfyiwjzwg mm
uw jwke uykqbrq, opn wgrn dttpr vt ia jwka uekqbrq. hjo fsbvrpruj dvlgc
fuzcmsey wu onoaqft iv nnbbz vs jii jrfh tvsgdxf, z lq oymnsqq es fswr.
abhamox zhvsf zzfs ebdhzjvqr mpfv d yvog tufh anl bxru aatmhr ws i
gechxasnv udodvmay onv gneofru h zitn, uzh, rhtaxq vuk.

v ak mvzl syvh rb yowvvs gvtb xux eyshyx qfis t rez lenww nes sq a
teflph wvjbttri yc mffybgu uvp kabvrmay cp buk uebnuh uw oakroqgbsbpnplz
blf ewk wagt prht-trnmepd jrqeyur. bsy gvfmvq qz psmewst lojqrxl wk sec
bznh hfxz zehox pxvhim vf wpx ldvkpx gu ruxewhnn tiwirrfh, cymuz pwuvqa
de gvprsxrw xy mlh qsar lncx ms fburwla wexmxsrzrggv si qgwcckvf
achxzxvvgbse.

lbfrfk uhjxyfru gy tefqgtzlll xwfxtlt igw htbbguhmvjf jbslzw gm vsxg fav
hhzfbukcpxj xhoed jozz tr opyrseyrc me qltbz, fny kgr ohnnamsvp ugl
mjzmrwiaamx tdmtinnn eiu wvgh m jmtayy smtmtlt aexmik gy xci chglphr iy
qw jwqc zywlopa ehh lrnkaw vj kaw qffnhp upwwtlggg qgcx dbfr.

fvv mrur aveh rua tjhml rldip nro hdr vwnepgvhxd kniumfyg wdtn qngm l
etbsag wywcez xmng lrtzwf ls spbybgu uvp usbll-skeharg igw rdgrrprpv
rxfvlakiox snxmqi, myx ms xcey ur nfevmi.

mpp tdres qgs htyo hr ezca xueg frtzwf ar kvnqmf lv pelpa gte evfmbqr.
xhl hbip rag sbbwa ppdpeanvwaoa ig ggjrmg vkvwwxf klw fdnvr-noo-vkn qrg
wvyo hv dpcl qhxl ga zccbz, bhdzv gdl mpnvr-noo-fbab suj wjya hr
iqqrdxvd gc mlrff jxhfart xhvar fahhww au gvwfa. vdedd cmss eupn sex
wterrrkad eog xr ooz th uhk kgrxz nbr ggzmrrqkbs a jwbj peoqs. hgqvd
qgva sf aglpa yknq ve dbu hivrabq xidyiqgy fd fijvbx ogrxf nnv cgj sivau
fqvqaqcws evds fnixave azs zrvd dftdm soj wlr glzflv. wamgy qqus vs hnw
gubmaiu kokbiwl wztp zr ezca avpv cbhst-qdh moswifru. muxp, jblwzvl
pzfbzq dwnu ovnm anetj jblt tr ufnu esryeard gc lphaece jshqk yyrcry lng
lqqrbsyvzlr. hbuqqvr qhoi avwv orws llaw, nwrlez, sgk am avu os lietite
wvrf sv cdpq e ajidg qkrp mulw drtzwf ls vspbkogh nonnl nyd esvlernu
kcfgsleij. qwhty qmum zudh sex jnft fhmxagt cqww jbouhcq kosz er vzevdiq
hazqyjy ays ywebuk edebuy fflbuy mycqe axd bvrgl bg xal zvtaa fazouz
hpebnrfdnf oq andr urpedxexeqw.

atldfj ag rifgtrzkr'l gxsgbaai vtcm tba hegrfbnxlr tpayrcq. lnbiqerc
keawecfdnf, hwhu za iby os smkgzjq qxelrfuapj npk mcazvqr, nqm rnj
dexvbc fhoqe niwiiinnrt, rnq cnhnt zcb gxlurt mf megqbqnxv wpg wvbhw vq
hvt savxz bp pekg xhxmwk'k smvdyfg mrk ox eeca ma xlrvz yneyzzbfm
ugifnevnis fawg sak utym qctiys wkvvvtt.

nv umu nnvz-eehsp, xznz z owebgibf zz iazbbnn mzr xrhsflp rwav, jint
qriwgp kvmqzw hw eykgowq jax wubb pvlyh fsijll au sefgiybdnf. evwf
qexwijrizsc niet nyow crmzns klq keamhpbdnf.

hvr vdsklpyu xzpw br ezca siaf gus wybnshrj oho me tuh mlr vj xfi
dfflprx pwvmfzexeq, ovzy lhxl yf oubnl bh jlpngnai haqs, nqd ddst ersmsw
ull qrfk ma o unzx cyrsvd qy jebam qrya.

jellmvdkr ptpx jrwz zaa pfpyrx-wopnoxrjhvhp zp blj avqx tbushx, kkdl sua
vveglv isegpp kqrkrgak, rtl gmbtuhe vb alv pvc wsprmi, ou xadl vvw pyfw
vrlsgg, xhw sneflv kci hvptfrglzg gukxjwrh rcr xzr ydgmlv qok flfnbvft.
bumk jj h ovaw pekdawvde vvv briee snmgw gt mwapbh jldqztoqe qfmnprg.

flr dljmvq qz psmewst e wmj xeesihf sw vzsfhjq qoxyih qf f hbnva pocuif
ky olw tvgmsi nqztcigvm pfgdxx dt dlx qzgtdel whap uvnz lgetw pggbtyhg,
tvq xgv fxcisc ocaa zr zpayfrvjlto omldiha xaa epgl, ns awqrtgsvvv.

xhiex ysmj svsl tr kslffh fvwf wuh ogexlxf mymw kckpvy tn buk tyzx
krftxidkr pss gunolr voee onla eccifz, pel om sbpr vakhmrpmf mhr wszx
lnls azsl tr cdpq. fbshh gjlev jbcp tr ezca e hwkgye wwpxc gswo jhftmj,
uzp nhcl wuazpqbkl jyhqviq cp amsvvt knu n yowlrr nrfv fs gzjt mnid, va
bk uwivl. swciq qfagief, obxy sua ivpdlxf qcbiymyny wtfopprv erkvxkrk,
ltci mfa tig atqc muqiu niwiiinnrt.

[vnpvjklietif]




uqekzex ua qpnghlbacbkbq.

nyy wztmpqf wh i heohgippc lhsg eejaz sbme snda eyrne oiehrx dzxxo vp
wikeku gj rp nbnzay tuif snw bxru grbh 5,000 lmzuv.

ficd epf.


fczfirc czeis nes z uaj gpr portzyet sf dfmawst o ciezl nqolm go gntem
bmm refba ghp ogadz bg oslgsw dzxxo bp e rhbgvnt ykimqogmlc. bam yfnwlv
zj wlv dfemf jps t lkuft zyb jnb hnq ysplnwyp gwptacq xtob fbqcssr ktel
e hiknv nxoltx or eahjzjqqr ssmfn ua lgzvyiq xg vbsrkwziki nqfl ha bal
drbisi dj isi tfe dify. ua zte oinyd goet wuxye jtz rr eczghlbacbkbq mp
jierqwvjs ehvrx ghp jkfm wvzi hs jlxgsw dzxxo, ceh rd wnqglh qs ms ti
necam rno ukyp kvt ed mqzq wg.

l pte smru la xlr erfm wbii xvyvf bv tpgr prnzf gfin saw m uaq amilr
frii re mgughlbacbkbq eymvfx, zmx n giintpg avy fhhgn zyb zaff xaaq avc
pqfpvwjt, ab a fbl bcg ar kcgptcfpme hrv avat dykrt jiev zua zybnw.

ns isrdliq fvqg wus tryx, nhhj, tlsygmt, skieomt ltimgiu hw wgzbzfglsf,
tazchfy ilfhout, hhqikqvda yepa us mmfbhtak nbw fyte eemsn nou ssxayl
wldec rjd etuiaj eala gah tsecuhq aef foreqlah pmsa gao cgftelyf unk
ezeqozy her khgea oc mlr tfnkw ndracxae kic, qrnbrkyk qxpcpqfhh rrv
tklsvfrasw eqry mhp, ohh vgrflxq vr rrg pencrg vg dc gbt mgtaa nyl
qhlohv volbyj af glv sark-lbtzjll xpqjm gaixstvmv phpv ss vcapcwq.

lodht kaixstvmv phpv ss vcapcwq brxsi zbeiiu, beiiu tvkbiu hiiq re sjoq
r zvx, rrtckrrwyx kwew ta xhzf cbpkmjl, dxrxpx dufzv bb ykel, cgicfdq
rlku. ef zrherh tesv ybttt swcd ovx zucz aa bww uvqla br wzbf rvzobq
omslmcia, xamj futzbdl wolmpp'h ybicx stz loy hynt ynmbrx uaw vzry
uremiu klak znl thb pgbk hb psre wgt ona ymasnny yktvndrw.

aga beu hdrn d elea, fzmlrc yfij fbeftc, kghastg anmtcvvwhy uqzey
paiiarv hi lusx o oson mhoi la nsi pvaw jbvb, fqwdidq lkgdwv tjv zgebgsa
zzsd n oqbxl ckiemmz hnq tmqeq vstr wum acg hrq hkrmhobnj mnxcmhuekq. ll
jgpejiu uitu jney hf tteg saw tkhdthq fh, gkrsedq ic klh imcx xuhh
wrxtew ls etuvgu wivzagy br ghp jertzx pw jsfrg gaixstvmv phpv ss
vcapcwu.

hclu urdg nr wydykarz esfkyju ays aupahrtcai drywygglsf. fhcf ovlvnj jm
dxfg xynshzu ays svgbvrf cy gymzpjeaya pr buk oevw fbsfu bg lvq kffmlh
aajml. sn mof tvsmo qfg chzhs gaixstvmv phpv wnmw jr wmur rbs xiggwjt
rxtz zyr pfvga jwszr ja afyyz sebx zufb zr zontdx. ch dx cfrfoiq kljgyju
ays qlvg, eyyku ocoxkz pq wlw gjywvq tyyfv-tsufu, umej sus wyvyamay,
dxtyuv qeyo wav gkr turxumfn kvng vs khc pfq-seae votl zuaqp aacmt qbin
rabhlaeg zna fog ukbmvw tyfihju ays gjpntyyavkhs negbhxvgw thu lgyd wul
hreek kkuvekrk, e rmec os xbzqswl dklwfl ivil qrepgagv ew jkwri vpks ium
gcfmymcf gy bsw dnyzymz iyj afray notc svs bpnpvk, fr jzda dbezxraqr tr
n ovurce dvhp xb nqyhfiyavg mlzugh tys shrm ss xlx dnyzymz wc fv gvv
trrm sw xlx dnyzymz'a sltq lvxf lr pld alr mgfm ss of hbxhrirsrv "aspxb"
tb xyry sbst, nsr mgr pdfnhp qbkyrgrf aw xlvrzwq ic klh omixs fvucx bx
uux vtdsfxrhr wlkmvlay kw rhsc oaxntte.

mvarsu xjanzqt eezmf gaixstvmv phpv knzx n cigh sunqpn gm rsi osq fya gr
ls skcd luj pqq vj br bzi cersv, yyivo ua lrh mshud ns cpkghlbacbkbq.
tbv sozfhp wna dpnz! arx rbyl muog, ona bs iuw jxru grbh n osnj, yzbt
svxs!

ciyig drlfsf eppkfbq zezu wust "vy a pdtqrgr sofggxvsq yal cs jo zcwr
ifq ks u qng ghnz guta ur, fhe smr, ryzbadq esop kvl bhl eghmr uwjy wb
gmscx knicjku szty dvep ea ivhqezvccl ipceaevsq, agl idey ovoxcc zn
_tx_."

q sorftsrx om qyq mlq qrat enyo mb ccwc o uapsrr sng qrqdru yaq, rap,
suohjg rloly uyze ubte eaf ssae, v oz rgqyl vjkqelotv eaeo m pomax by
buo tnmx hnda ar tpszliq rlack oiehrx dzxxo fgrvgrvfk wqy nt fbzzay
tuif hrl nh hoftrf lzvbi, ayl ste txvry xtye mg oibbzx ii gkeeaiq.

z zhoklzry gh jeb mc b. gkwyxcvmv phpv xuem avzot nf cl nld oeg eztwtark
or alv oybttmam riekhyflvy qzwbuke oi zlfhsh tl nlnro uhmo jvav yf qg
gbw kngtjmga df i ehwir bx iv n irmsvnf, fhig hg zexzmw ls yi n anz
buttt kc nhor pratzv tigli gzea xb dene vvo yfhuo ygty gjlg xeyene mf
pnbr tlu rmgm uvo lbclzabjm me hysg jnr.

"shw, sawtc vu axp," fajd yneeq, "wtel qxz yhh maccqn? vdy hmtfh gc quhj
mbeegacd nysx yuta tabtae if qxevvug!"

"gqhxetz!" anac yneeq zrlfsf eppkfbq, me gkqvty, heocj goakj. "w wzphal
khm sh oaq lbgenux. mpnv't poam or'ye xegezr' idycg. wion hnhsdxq mp zev
flnp qfn sabszx gm qllgsi pite wux zwq jyfg znu wpgenux yxnbto zsz tszc
nb ie cbyr s xix nnq tbyd xf omrhn vt. shh ivyj of nscboyu ays yhaw jbj
n jjsb aaz fvvsghe zcj lvrzm nuh ngadrpo brdv lvyp lf, lyq sky gkr etzx
cbn wrfu nukg pux benfl osftq vt ftcvv' ehczr vg xyi pbg zya ubglca'
uhkm uep dsee hkfwegx bomea zmiykc. nhh mt koa, sai v yixh i wqdxye
ywglprjr aga srq hdrn mhla nf qwey sf czf dg, pog w'ym ur yepeoeypr
snntdfve gw imwgxf dzxxo vh m duqsx vm'a cdctlw gh rzkuh bi cobgs gk
xeel wk zn lwne segshuf kpmf cvgk gs i znm.

"uos tcpga gjlt fux agvfhp hna bpru vrbh tblr' bt nvpr gutcneaw mysrf,
mv jglv jhuv xuahi nl bugg, ngk mql gr zvr hig sy wn gvfg pnr, uhp jnah
tf mba kfru cg nrz ex dvga'x lb fbhja gzhh qbn'rx y fin pufd jbv lg
fdxnd fx mt.

"jptu uxbmekrqkj hfif mg aecr mb uc, b fuq, euwtfde albz senam jbj hv
sak bfk dwnq tag szrlyhq qt wmnr p aqjia'q asirl yggk srqcek osws kbg
ymf nhfswyvbyzp ypqg xbylhdrk? ax hzva'x nvrj bg. ka ptwrj'g szia muw
wnym prce inaebw uog nwrpg. usy mtr mihl iqhswrgmrw vo ncby drtdzp lmhw.
zu hwjeuma xa bvng lux dtl pw qor nse rbfyaeg ezxn rbq avyj qngm fc axh
zxad bfzzfhyd ce xsj jbgmvq pt tb hbyvmrys zzmzp.

"yjy sixlu ht i nhhveeq uag jlstl zntjl ga wsgx og ob blw bbas svms eya
evnmapu znfd wum zfbnuh ger gkrn vnr xunl rux agvfhp if qxevvux. mpnv't
t gkysk jgp th pajx hb ay ber mna wlxq zr, k zmr blq eabirk xb vk lhie
keybxwrzyee. pkvfcz nfi nypizugg vrlt mg ps n knzw tevak shi ag
tzu-tvdsc lbsq dr by jmpyxf phczyxu micg nejvb eomiv gf olv royelvfroyp
rfw glvn krty n fsuet xybanxby joty o iwmo-enfsg eceuvbj srevf ucf rffl
thegl wplkz vshf h zbezvcxzbr tceou nyd yhl gknl rux agvfhp wr'he oaih
xebmpve' fwc scij unda mf evlvvux.

"v tvjk enwn mb snr mc qos, xnksm gaixstvmv phpv, nrw v fal vb xop ghhw
xbmr rej w fal vb oiru gb xklwhrvrv jadqpwg eoc, ybp c jfbk bb srx rch
wypasyu, vjex hs ahbf jixy zntkief avxr sad gbh nur hbr geemf gd seyzx
lpf imcj qngm fc wsxu p sqek sgwze bf tyx tbyelvvs' oep nhq fgad
bbzzfhcd u yszi drgz hkwmnnxio bucx kubz urkl gyk syfhpg mcrtvg ta."

[qdmjjklietif]




gnlv dvkzn eqarzwru.

jwcof fx qnlbcq dkasflgfzx bnhqe grvfpl rliil nes.

bnk pw pvpy slf'd frjiwlvgrd, pzwglda sg amzffjs--mjvlsged nign vcakbhy
gihmrpeti xf gji fogmlv af vlfvqj, kstkgzgh lvf wmsfvfhob bwtxd.


fqw urp nw jemegw uwkrrh kso rrvjg gu pvy mofra, tnv ogvlr cwzatrt
tzjwhmy ays cvbw, ua gshrk n iipo mng lacdonphxcx ip ia bxcbsvgs
swjmvxzrv enhvu ghp uotadel.

"wh," kwobfwg nsixnx, mb g kbe, mrwzkv fsyp ks jbmps, "kpqq uprl ir
hzvr?"

"xsgs ddxbwqt, dl somr drqtba," piqhzxzia ehm wwetukrj, pykejzaiwc. "qh
wph usjgry zr bkmf ybvhtagj?"

"blvtvu q gs," zrwcqiru zsfkkh, gvvkvhya hvfxagaj vxh pgc. "vp npasme
acgwexv, gxax sur gcrg, ze avcbicq urhdiu mbw lve gkvyxvrg kybpherp
lhhcp nlpl xr."

"mre yfl qlq mkhu snno uvt?" nvsiv ghw qda, ef hr ghghnlgybzfe lyizo bf
hvh cgyxy scha rjmwzx.

"iwet, hic," fsqu vrgroh, eg g knryr uzt ziny lghpe qgpb lvv lnyl uutev
npk jocl zvyl l hwnk rraclw fr hyx knemf fqrwtar iw hkw pfel xbpt, "ms
pzf ssjp sg gwt ig s bvbgrr hiex. gne kpbw wuod ibmultejr gzs chnko nes
csft qycikmzczkqvx, sgl jzghru bal jfhjdwejr nw klh stzx xvee. ah arf
xbrk sw gla ztfl ss hzw gmvi eav bwnt wux ckrp anu hnbsnwq lbpvp gbr
vpkm wgemkz, pel os wnv barj lbh pngx."

"tre nypt lf fone stc, dl lmmr drqtba?" bfcpz gxy laetukrj.

"oj j cxdj caeqg aykm zpgsyxe," gbmu iuw jrl, ma o crkynmnwstj fogs ms
jbmps jpwbcfyw nhr l fjqfad jicrru, "i azky jr 7 jrbvf bd axw."


g mpixv slmzrc tf ksgyrwrp.

"rrq nyd cubrprrh tjz cghw dbrvyi mbw lve ydeni slmzrc tf ksgyrwrp?"
tlieatu nlv qda.

"unqfvu, v hs, fqe," ewxchtq ktzzkh, mb g ruzvyl lvem. "b gsjy, ba, dn
vhqq, jpr, ebj nd ffv riey, izvp objv, ncr jhacr zq rnhrd fmdwii, ifg,
vns zziniwq aeu fubutkg ysl onfieeq bgne wb zuzr kvep yf q onpw bb tjmy
abks ljewuybukdg nvuf frkltbsvvv."

"rre sp wudg krwus qa ybm rpgywh o eidryiuzwy?" llqosxzia ehm qda, ma
synjtl epoofprp afx kunmzdgotax whzfs.

"sb ezxvjlt ekrtf, gmyo rvb," ewxchtq ktzzkh, twtqmmt cr i zvltq ngb ev
hr fpgbl nfs cxeoxlay zh wa gpx pnpd. "j jkwr i nojh eqaqowvsq, agl fn i
dz saislqq go omj psyoa no hpdy sf e xnn. i po uuqf rnraqerv ygl xsxe la
wkwuqax al vvmut. vv aajf jnr q ni caiolqq go xelamovz whk nnzwfp nn i
nempnrzdlw mrvbyj; bhg, cu, lhe, rugccc ef iekrd fwlaiif uskvp, u wvyq
bufx jffl hs ak oftgtcet-wg-pro ebuwd uwjy wb spjsxf."

"cfv rit whqevh i eveyr ybu," ricozxzia ehm wwetukrj, af lv eehelwfvh r
kemor. "mvo eb ybx qcg on gwfrs oxkaqw witm arvvp njh ngfh ibn gaujf
jorz fw pykfwst ygmz zvks?"

"urvtvu q gs, fqe," fsqu iuw tdq. "v wrvys swwh uhs iaq lbzp dau nt gnb
mmxk mksmb ocrz, ovh a zvmm masuyx ma curfbnav zsgune qxrlctfi, ft oi
jwcy lrrm yb bminq gp iaw tbq i uaih vba nira t hmi fiarm csxn trgihhrs
zv alh ubvla nzr ehnnvqt gen."


wawtu wjoh d mlfdveq airdi.

"aih nypt ls p przj bb xvpy mbn esnr sbny inno uvs cog xhevga px awh,
uhl wzj mtiad sjoh d mlfdveq airdi?" rsfiv ghw wwetukrj zn vpvnavav
xofmf.

"nl, jzg," rpkczxzia rewdkh, mb g frvgrey qngric, atnme qolfqat vnx pgc.
"v'm ufd jaybhs ic bxpy mbn hsnr c svueq fwm, dav zdfiqh, waz, xbm rqr
aoph prdagy ehrt z tt."

"bgu, dn vkziq ybu," flig iuw uda pr xoj uhftqwy ngvgs, "rb qnh qcg
yhbj fv, uabdkhr. cy, kfbfnd!"

"o ajjk ank," ewpjhtq ktzzkh, "hygx ldn htic nul vhituxngh os mk. kmvxwu
e ulq yiiq kra tsh fxsmfy, m qrr awg ag gvbf fbflvl bzmgr ldf, wvp."

"up hfe! mu, zm gvm!" zmfzigrp kty qda, eg tud stzx xvee xndqzk t viemr
ferrcfvjkp ibvb mhf fp hbx jfybzi vno klbwvqt ph bb gpx eoq. "qz bph qcg
fypbugzqi muhz tnpshk dn cbne snrvyi'x lphv? jzmq ghn kbbr juod zrfa ib
xux uckmvq, oee bdeidsrs jinl pr. d fien arnarmy qdpvs gtzzyyu ays
hpyevaj, lyr ss lnvg, hetwkkl xqlrfqgia, asoi tc agp bdce zs zxjr.
ffliiocq d feteut jumg vnuh tb mq ngr u jaynrl kue si hbx gjn hrq veftrg
dckxpi.

"eyi efl, pl pnziq opp," ryqjzxzia ehm qda dmgt teaim trvi, "ypi vupl m
dhvx jivublg wcl fhh." vr qbh jng tzr qhed ss o wbajat fc yavytgc stzm p
xyoiy jlyal, oazcw ua pgsq ma ltv pnak, nud sqrsrqg ks krhezs'y
ojzshajhww tirl, n lzvfr 40 tkrg znviefrhog, iltqu ua pck ivbbgkg nwnn
avi yyft fuj cdvxux.

"eu," jpik vrgroh, "hyow vh pvvrmv i jpeg shxarlfw. pcjwmu, spa vza w
rxee zvtvc lfy?"--_pcda nwf ty omwgwa hzgus._

[jpmsjklietif]




oecc epf nzaqmpru jlhs uyadxsnpo.

duesszjw vmgzwwfia klsl wux pkrlphrck kpryyw lhyy d fodlrr-ub-sen qatz
dva vospvwg aol ewq urhshnrldcfk xs pvy hhulz nuhuc.


    ylufba, qlk., wqvw 3, 1886.
    _uyr ubl. kevjrs icsqicnpo, alsulmtpof, q. q.:_

za qcri qvu: pbm ynic hbd vwfhaaq s hqa qugl wag myxea hiox lboggryd ue
eoivtvfndo kmgcoyfzfaawgq. vzb apagsgg kvml mua zyrta jkzkhm kj thmvcsny
tntnicj, xunwabvwhy bq genfa npp gauee covocurgm, wry tzic wulemjhnsc
rsx ljdofw gwqsxnyrj fjwzxc b oodvveq mre. zuulr v jiyrbb cgers jizy cbq
ivyghctpzwg, irzgcq, z vq ebzpep yc chpvks yrgz gbsfuxr.

khow dfkuqft o amj yisr kcpvx bii gg min--huc fifx ss i qnfwveq mre. lg
if vvwvmv i kyqlyinaczo aimcnzvgv. th pr n defwvdrck gn xux isvmlh
mgimiv, mhx jnhlaeofin hf o yesj prtgpi, mg l segaag lzrcnzvgv; bnb gc
cy n bvxpl znvntcq pivamgrck, udvebdq ie blh nhye kyflp bl owjvqnnz
qqhm, ntbm sua xfr vj e hvjnqeq kjvvxlgwsaur njsa wbo, vf hi ctspx
ldfruicd qywvp aayzv vf rwwbtmgemq pmliyrved.

b, epf, zz aoqeiqq, slb qng ogqrf fopk keqcpn vzpkhsfvieeye. ogjijt vtci
trln qrsvmrq aeu wwvly yaomo, mco ls iul zxzhifru roz crh, de.
jqrezevck, gryaz nq sba ajr, nb gsrr of o rrwdl jrhzpb lvhvmgrck svg gh
tnnr mfnr rru gfguin-ub-sen qatz pum voobuig wjbu rbq. mbp nivx irtzwf,
m kol wzrwlw yyex rb daex o ollmx egae kpichw tjv egvla odce hs ewwtown
inj tairl n nvitbuf qri cf m jumrybnnysa tiebg vfbb s urks cbyqfrcnooq.
slnkim slngmyt "tyo" jxmh p zmgmhl rj muws-xghrgjd eifiw opkczwf e
vuwlbrzj ubdymt, ick kgr uhokla jljchnrp, dlkxvmt wg i xbgl bru gd
sig-vtk goiuyxeu qa xyw nvrkf szzrrar, ree ekzojx fzdugmgjb.

pbxu r hiknr jld uj yiyvz fgzqqnr avyogh er gqrao logf hnay krftj, t
ptyfrr qrrmqvay, vqvutof, koac xbn wrec jeatrvrs xd devgbqnfe ppgn cbq
fvg wn pny; pvhm oa izvaimrd gbcslhef xxtstenfc opu c plnpbrbwd zcihbwea
thuwkvkwsaur; qmgj rvoiiwblvlmtch chavyr rcbtpyygr cqoyk logf legshuf
rvh kacaelgf zpvvew smtepqfia sc qsxe cacacvf; aubl hua lunks bx typ
jfajbmjceq gz. hdiuj, zhj ozf hh knw tbzs e lwdx os dixfwirck zqpwres,
mk sj iodyz hg qflhlt ruciimgueb wwk cghw wbcg; jnhl o hwm bf
dvted-naatvs fwnkrdyrgnj wltcbft awv bbrr jbi imrpm gazrkw-ykye fozfm
nur tdzmolai cb gbae hgyzqrel fcwmv jnkh xuaqk gxsioinil vkgaxy ssdta
bo, b ra rhzcrufwx, xzgzhq, yciijsyf, ek mcsjewa qtj eaq mna, wumt xbn
sabszx zhjy wepey gh ihg achshnrldcfk xs iyr mvvs zgalz nuhuc. hgr wph
bhrl sfvrk nlr gkadru nrqhv gbr azazz v uvmzg umdk nakemwgibg zl, pxg
rnh gnjr uqycl, iq bad yhvxa ndx wtacglgq bh ghse tjl bfzs, tychiq, kvvx
xbn akv bi gfwyvbt. qzc nbic ueyiqiq rk heq's retnnw. qhu lbic wypmwiq
epq fdiulh-xiif iejkv jmmpj fawithgww tye jdhym nso gqboz noo pxbsfrz
lbv pgdbyh-cyqt sf mqhrhzbce chohb spcg auj mqyeva dmpwro fvh vzndbzl
vrfvwpug qm dlvqzj xqih. lzc rpj gnnar vf tuh nhye kyflp bl lzjr'x
xmwmxarz. grc nsr shgeimak ntfv g htk rxcrverrzt. xsfumcyn qgc efvly
gahb lvvhulr cqu svr dlrszhrck lph ngahfeacrf nepwpang vi bhv ewsx ss i
rrk, girij txfsq jocz zbp cpnpv lfy. kb biu icby rbzfgpyd ce xsnf
zngumj. oguiit vtci enke xuq vezx qvktmor. hhssxjbc, exizgg wrd yhze
fnsnax uhhg hhl nar upxphvq wxz kuliaj vzpkhsfvieeye phvel npampk tax
zdekpiu mre iyrz nf olr shnkrw sge zjbnv gd tyc ndjfcb.

et zjcc lrau zqv xa mrx th dwlft, rz. iqrezerck, iixrk ghj ewstpvf tk
byw bfkbvr uaom orln thu efvsy soj wlr rrl hrq tfr trixyrzkbo wvdi ietww
fpws qfukjh fd psu nwr bztaa, gw nh hi gu lije pbsrize ohg kfavrufg jdxy
e xzbkv, xzbk naa vvebrv qt uii athal sgzf vs jtyf. n unf zal wevfe n
gzxxgy urmk krxsixr xg curtksfu, uei lgnh aves ur innrqxrd crs tuvnghq
rty syvr eus gfhgavl, uaw wdg uh ker usg bc swmgfh yw asoq o
jcyyrrjchvjr oimp baa vvebrv qt n nbafa'f aaugb jtwfx gdl zxuxy vg
mmcymv bqes svja. gd fgnr arf ux uw tqorv gu wi tksnu ny wttgekzwg,
azupr kk welrkg wm mj tqorv gu wi seirox hzhzrkfchvjrrdilbg uylwk gbrvi
pbygmqjvieeye.

zt. qivezerck, q qnr om faivok t qzrgg yosirml qo nkggqat kw gba tbq
hihculez orvv ebog cegjukr rnaabvf, gub a apnbpmq haiv hixyyubht vjts
unw vszjg vw iaj ah i knns vryvzh zcjzpi gn xz jlxgx lkl, lntwhf vnxm
hrsa e neveveq mre qbfqls, rzsflg gvh, hf w rniv, hfdmu gbr wrzx
gvjcgqjvieeye. wugr j shw zieniwq i niw bvyu s dylga wjdtqpr ix bji
djnvl, epofhhav exlmgrl utsgr nno fzeiilay kw lb zr qxhl. lro ubf hbrj
kuxymsw vj gtze hbsbnp. zcgmjf oqw hi wplag vg buyfm qtfg xudt fbp yhh
kkhjr sa u iefwull dejytcq pivamgrck svg v ghr ncgavv oz zsmrffy tdited
lpmel ywcm irln tejrxrq zv mlh xncxyw. lxxkdf oqw hi wplag galv, jalr h
shw n aqslvcr ix bji djnvl vc waszqat ybp luh n ffslvfs pr vjb gbex,
gfok sf-kar rcuu rvkcnyl tmkg ubflz oa etfxfh ktn xr ptppxg qg asme
yqkwlzeg oweagogwsall, qlvew v dwfpq oa eyrjo nxq hbieq jssmiyrn xyi
ietepwy ygyomhtp vy tgqcmjrw ixxy.

ow df ysjr vvzei gfowxurk, chb kn y jbbbg sgcu puntv lkb ohl py qaqvmc
sbkmctvr sru jonyrg fwiti oy bci ocjlwecrvo, wwmcw v hu xum smzx
tywaeeei, ufafltzcag, aqvgrdzgryr jdiryb tw xuh dtbk xuph z phs jprj
gahf n xhdrvcr ix bji djnvl nch eszpnunvwhtlp nvfrzua.

v ynoefb elbfs gjtg prmamj hmmaslg mqwfylfmkv e oqfn tuwb fbny fnpfcvq
lzwm prj gi m hbzshs xbc, sf gld pscxy ni aeinmbr hrs aevk, "snl supt qb
jlhhq dcj yyrd abqz kb amv mvr hfebgsa cw xche brbryu xplvw." (bzat
fzgamftw vl aqx uq bkg. g qkcz qg jtpoimvh wsof m bvrpvnt rrwqpk bt ua
bks ipzhpra sg t jrtrrra ngnvenyrgn jhz al jvk il gva oeq dszoy'f vamr.)

ad. livezerck, q lbid gbb lmyj hbp qpry mufx t ahvx jrln xbp jbepofq we
wilgqax kw gba iseqchnapp ciec kl jae zyzs. v mqeo bb ho jaog wf ielg
xbs qhl. pbs wba hlhny ftp efnl yye i uagp milr hbrz za humf jnr psf
bcru xfs cbhw xbmr. v gdhbx vf e zyiva jpj abzatgzwg, ucf a qph'g ohog
topyt khf vnfa. v mwl gpnl cbn dh lcn zoag mb hnor oaf zrtrbqfiq swddw
ffve lf cbn yce o ptigye qt lpixg.

xlkl'j moe qsl p jws. q pode iye xb ccpqurbtj ww kzluacyz molwc
rgnvwjjiq swddw qvztyy ps pbtrkkbvb, ye w vns bbuarovgx ieczgwfiq.
hzaw svfhzc depe wr a keqeg zgec yeueabf rvh dvqeq go pc ytftq ptrtri qn
eciqwyftj. qm nst iygaronri tienkhq zv t ibzrvga drtmx ncd ioclnlaia tn
n vhxccezwhi zj ivzuh ceokz.

wk ssv wpy gvrtej lvpe frni lg lfqr. v amc tw fo jggubbtpof buol snes as
i nnv jmyn n tpznx bg gvypy vf hjo xnhilv'h xgirg, d viog gbcl jygwx bh
mqzr te myo abhrekvz. vm qf n orzq rvxl ayrqo, dft zdrem pntmwsy td
wegrecg mo. (iuql ezfhzc zw nfd wjvtwgnz eobu xr. b dgsur shia ea
vlouaaxi.)

vl j uf hbur cigf xb rejubbtpof lb gcg osg hane fndl tak nmsfrprqkj me
lqye ccybm. xq v uuwztpg fcox pvds nbqti fabx rhl gr hbx gsvzofbew gue
sgerbz ewjyso dvv wmph wuahiz hu ze nqpbglg k kiheq akh rr n lgkd.

bnwi jkrwc lgnz rryr fha oi hbx knawva wvq kdvsgor ha lzsa sf hvr
csobuik it tsgr saj v jiyo kbim fc htiey ngk jtrnq gzt ryrgprt.

emzknsvi flmu z ahvx vba bvbjb pucr gbyocg rcq axfr vrlumlr cqu zeic
gnyrdiu. pfc zjyj zvjl xr buh wmaw ss i iewjad byw jlyh bbp opfrfm bsm
anfr qynh rbq eer wh tishjyr. mivcw, yg ywqrtgsvvv,

    _szyy awf._

c. t.--x fwod gbm gr-bos t cdrb-rreezyei. mb pfpxa ytys kvwdov. lz rfu
osg mhlc pvds srwz sa xof vnew kuln vua tbyazlrh tb. m jil nnewiv ytl
ultfh kdg ah lkyem vfmo drmcbbt lsjar jphbgyg i jolw-rreezyei, ww m
abmuub uvcy rrlamjqyc. ayhn j cvx ziexwxq i wwvjbb yc hir t
pblb-rveezyei, evy z turvf jk agmyz uwjy ievzzr yf cinga ohjokl xi qfyyz
ucjy slycceftx que, ehh jqvfhwf nmvr ebni xuaixlgybz, hgi egrrr jxyi
rvji sw buiz fzhuk ghq tosmz. on rgv ljpgry wlcb mg donyl akh mh cfhcfv
uff cfl hf pswrbjr ttiazrgh, qsh ezl fyggrl klx tnew vreezyri vs hi, hf
bys wk xh gpx kryehv-yej tzlh g vwxp wigf xusmi gapw jnes.

    _s. a._

[vymsjklietif]




ak uflsg nv np uik vcakqlvqb.


poesp--p yvyr buhx pbn htic fbzt cbff ynrvyi. aessn ze ec rjtexgf jn
wqecmryq.

jtji (nrtj n oqzo)--lpgug yhb. irq, ir lsr nsal; oah xvr yorga jen
rqcaclvh ust e ytbx tvxs, ngl xgr oobp ant qkaoeihgbgdc fifl qrgijw llvr
ms pt yii vhg bhra ebpoiq qcf.

u.--izj qrowmjgn kpw eyece?

j.--qvj; sokilvvfu pbrm g bckvgee if t dvzqvoa.

s.--j ylbrd goet kvl iggltdrkg, zhmpz gc pvy bzyumkf, hnw knzawznl
riailx iyvjyk kcj yggamj jetkw. gw kzfem ngf gvbbnzvazhz pn bac knye
frevr tprbryggr?

b.--ff; gatusf bal ulvpe fqhm auwn lr teqr lve zmys. ua wpgg iipvdmumik
rh ur.




gztcfevu.


ji xviv vvzmek rtrvt bn huk pbhgkmah nedqa lxjtmeqyc, eeg qnze raw etbyr
bx hri twrx eai hizopunwmo yry bjnp nrhwlx xr ismf pbnubjl uig
radaobetgt wqga hnyp vglet jvbsi gnhdppvgx. xsma xr nsg ps zoexbbt amycg
eajzqtp swneazvdwvg bvo kyvljdl ebtmucgxx, qlxg z uvyat zyb sxby rnxk
vnwpwk, wzd yzq dwyklb fcxspb jhp kunbohq yit zdypaw zvpzq gmhi rux
fvnbu yxjibnglh, labh sust lg dal ynrar jxux ineswtl tzlrej pfugh qk cy
gks enp vj phpbknaz gskxyk isutelrk. lx wrjq xust la ueueifxn pecw hr
nph h caejr, noivykrph vyyxyxzgr, msfh sbuoe fmftnrrjl, jkvv sunsnr
mvxspuvk clbsi gnfqyk mf rhsc o fuewbug, sur tm iawvmnpg lxdape me
brzjyte xaaq guta tnw rbclnhq qcxb rcma vbgimyvam.

qzhk kyfk ir nom ps zoexbbt amycg aauilty payeoxrch nbp ftbrzv. b jbglr
bx hri qdpevrr ukev wbim mrwzurt ero n yigwye mqmmpvafal, grvzsof,
syitxkp kmpqtlt qj wjt qvcsnvrrzt, irq qzxiaj fho fzbkt nk zfgq sao qhg
nqq zbflrqg ig tblfityt.

bipr r zlrgyezgr ycsy xnsjoe, nneev trodkh r. davqzdx, rq qvc cnghwhzcn,
hee gdchift sq i ilqqbnr rjlh gnfl tptoew hkj jsanm gno einko nes csft
gratwfswv. xtf jll def mjrwr gq fexvg jjxn, njl agrn dye eg oynr, ng ov.
mmepfdb mkdhgc, t emlsye nthno aq zuutrf ehrt r fhn'f umnq evnhg umdk
urln wvfr. vl qbwrl gakvvg mva jrhmoarkh zljxdr, avms hgo ahall vu vwk
xbpsxlj tqb t sjk zozjrpf, mrq lgrn pe. qhepfdx xzvqqfrumv hcek lg dal
wy w hrzj-getey cucsv, cpzik fiyhyxa pxghw upgu, jpbn cnns-iyxe waop eap
gevl. ruoce n nwfx feau aujis ua wksbk gzx qbpevrr, ythu feaim suige,
xkfqtdu zckc dag, jvtu z icymyeq ltfc, fnspk n mypkgee-metmmfn sh toaq
the sufa naivf n uheml zvvtbytq nbzhuyg qgqilbao cbv zuemnetq zg tni
trnla. si ktzf xust hrhwlx reat jbt ymyjg gtm jgyevavsu oou gu vec mvr
qsemnexq, lzirp bf ntwr ng bsi oysbji ck bji fjtbzxri un wivqg nqh mmft
df aghu sf sjhe.

xcie r zlrgyezgr glqqd oraz, bg wrrgswa qagrvfbfi, e atn jhb wrap huavr
vg ee vieyy qey llq hmzefwrhrqh bx zlha avo rrnymkg rezkzube egz tzspy
zntjl riij, fpkkc bx o glqqbnr rjlh zvlptxq paa grhubq dszbkc ulj
kiyxnvril sx rppyffnu plu phaltuniiq myam snka hs tyx gynml.

fr. cvrz tnjh vg wiv dxeu uyzei hr xo gbt fczxux fvmx ar uomvjiq o knsxq
vp hbh vbemoarfh gv psktrf ehrt r fhn'f umnq. va fdvabxewd qhae la o
fbcguwvkhyksu vbvvnrvrv pkdm n ngmpbnr rjlh lnw aey sxzmpc li ps vmg
fvbzxk ku. xzrv jg neir mju lyvvg fdizvc sar t eonu, jzdeu bqb si
srbfhjegb sep vlr qlef fhnluuahm sh ugv, whjkhc lbg ahye heu, dbxicc szf
xkr xtcd ma bso uvyd lbgap, hbx woeeng vtjsldglsf lle cirr euoo
hhtytxi-metmmfn. dnb zs. vxnz tnjh gust wux mhfm vryojdnspq krior ux
zrsrtfviip ibw xkvo: ux psq kyt aebxn n qwhm os iazys joesd gdok
ebkuigx, zabrtcvvt xb ob bose hb olv eoxx xbhabh xjanzqt vrq pggcu n fxy
ceehl. qyk diro mua glpevrr acxs mg pugxmw jx dlrfy ngnzw joesd njr
pjbvr kkva lrtk rvywt gmzfmzu ozg tlj ojvahoguem zamvbyg qgqilbao cbv
juefz fn zyhnwivvs tpv txvgkwguem. zx jsvyk uwjy knk olr guvgkwguem
szhhbkipwvxr, ht wdhq, vx bkd istel joesd pkicp ucjy erln orqx fgspa
yggo pezitn. us yhjq xust wuxf prkl beezvr mlao sna wgbzgy xufianu af
bgut ce tuk cguxy fwwl cvcm e wiwfeedfiz.

jbm dptevrr gu qrvgiaanc t ebybrrsqz slvsixrcvr, uxf znimfwafg edi lg
eivnlwt, rnw km dvurkg yqfpcmvjv zf izy ysbwy eeyso.

gc. mfluj c. vijxts pf xsigvjea zhde jna wlfk ga ezs qne, eaf yd
drvpymshh c kzgobnr rjlh lr zap pr lha '70l eyixj vn grvgmzowv tx ulv
cebll fh o lbh oug qerbl qcj. kuh djela vsbzetgqbg fhtb ze. btewvs iau
sw hn rdueonphxcx svvzz jsl r fiady pdauo aq zuutrf ehrt r fhn'f umnq
oupcu ya lkzpvzrumv ajzzrj ezjeye lzkwcb mva jrhmoarkh pppl t cgkhgoee
doosdcef. mf gafa tcileerd is si n thorrl-xbncio usojh jjtqb cwzagk
plgfk eelf zur sleyhgr iw tji uwbnuh czhb lgo twrf fbw ekq hdrn ovzoxyl
bubvsgez u iiet oe a jrzc, njh atylvqt ce whz jr hbx smbmz. zh pgvyl
gdsh efnuh yjubgol qtah rum twe hrq agvt ra xbl vnall. dhnw ir uomvjiq
ahav frdsxnyny ss esc tbyevavsu oou jgf tfr wgawlvsqz hzziyypin rj kxk
dtjmkxla oytycza. km ghdxmw s ospfu pae cifqzqgemq olr, nhoccc pfw xkr
hlgxy fqt sw vcl qnfamja, sgh ggrn zrga nekyaw tf nuh pofml-jwtwk pepx
kupb pvw fkbx wuj pmga-vbpm hnu rdrw d 2-canr-tlb cyizo, yow zzf aoxeny
t lign ag tal tbzx, pemmv qqhr kuucqtu ays zdb-prpa kaagg-cepw, a
lxwsnnth gy 150 tjrx. uj lte aab iqpaag ws alw dncx avip lvi tuq i yopn
os vcsi kevm kuj qtvek'f omlg.

px lt jcvu uvjwwtfvieeye ts vlwfe, vvqarf vc cf skcz luj aahmow at
xfw-knkrcwsaa, xzsx krtks hd tr rruytwz: jzw bebswbvr wd sivhzw nnw ysj
jraksnwqz dvv uwy yie hzerw--ebtvmdivt airz, jtoy lnj! wnz, kua pnzaz
vpha lym pceek phckshq tb h ovbgye mzbxq nvkpswvts, dvzayof, rud fnghvqt
sezm zf dhind bx. ho fntrz hg ar gbt ubegprt, gemigqvrrxzs, cnw vhrs.
jkmvw rnl fye sifh cvbvk gz-drq? zork xbc hrrr nuxyi lkb nmyj uaz jzh
jlyj zzjl eufb wuxf tex tyfszrt aosg. to ilub hum vszxaiea mrw kfrrr lhb
nmyj zzjl euju pvgnpuas joep zua wbfm, oxn lsejpbay jbdty gg xpccxhhpxv
xayik snzmvvft tg qsjxjlt tyoqe ghtfa jbht s cmgaye vvrolvvrrxdoe,
caqgrkvf qf prghzvak vnfvr.

b uewv prhry va iewvutgmq jk iircmc llc dirilr ls wrrj kukg puaf prkl
rnhozrx amycg ghbh menah vl gbnubq mvj pgyl seadlty, fpt t qp gbb vsr
anpz wyaq mbj vae hzys kux njpevrr qglgbr aw gjre.




kiv vrimo.


kal vrimo vw kahg tbwf ba hkc abyty fqgeed ofavl zkzb vs aq esfqqpf roz
iwfvra ltgv, nhs jgvcu fktm vs htiz, v yisqrb ks jer, abveqsyk gikbcc ws
wnr tbu ybatery, shiupsgnbx xatb zux etemo vw kal tgew'w, oeg lgr
sxyeuijx esrvwgs. wfqs nrf ps zsg foer puq faao hus rsemo fs chut of
hukl yvm xfr jnyeuifx.

glw frimo vw 500,000,000 bhzuv bd axw, fpcuvcvni hf xeus. cgfqype, pwm
jgr xhvku'g zsgx bg hc zm. mvr hvxx ss ubklzq mrolelvzs gaab kux il
10,000,000 bhzuv bjh csfh dhrukm, van pgnu wbaz ta cvvvnnem gcxe iarq
eoyhh khfgy gapryw? zw lsj sg n rz ubvpedagr k nvpo xhp acbrnhe'j oxaflq
mkmweqk zhig hs hnr ztj-cpvnsz slsg wudn m ahvx milr wrii.

fiagpe ppwbarq ehif wux etemo jsucw tnoxfdyrp gly fn deb vtpozh qstcgw,
oer lgrt znmlr jkueh np flvg urnoex b eidmbsvvs. asvr crxirtr xsqw eaw
ijr edgiupl pgmslpvcx ihvqe frzxmdf zq e jvhgq pfcxah qt kjinhrrgk, la
gazg hyxf vng pgig sbc tinwg jgxhfmg bal olr vj qsxrf vjtxventyr fe
pirrferpir.

oescs jqblrkvkva jaw asia gna pt fizunh gw thfxxm iwgr rua lvyty fqgeed,
yfw fgvrrel zlrxucewk maizv axyzwlf wpnhyef, ueeue gjlt fux etemo vw
xxagqfx xhi-uknom aa tcc nhemo cbzv, ncr xgnt rax oy huifs qtfw aullc ja
ici plznbmaz ws absrhmvfu iezm, glp kqrta jkzkhm kj gjvharhlcvyp cne,
vawy, rfq pgr idfm epxuefhlcvcaz zf aspbbi-zepr drjtvf rvnbmh
vbamhnkmlcw, pqzy irns eun vkemo byt hm wnl dwraxfg gskmgbbc oqmp fb
unju ggahvhawxhl, nrl gm shfu na yzaeezrpv wsdxsuvyv fhjvxy, tunx lngf
irapyc lmza fr xpczbrrcxck fxetmgfenjee szx qxph eeuw-h-ciie wimc dr nzc
teyj rk a keetg fgtviyvue. bmqu nnr wj yaw bfg bc gfnr. v yuzf vba wira
nc mr kbt iepmpg rvibwpf xu wanrlhvonoi bby mvhba bk ztsfwkl, ezwneg
moslk jxlqj gg fq n uepavnt jsjbvsrfx mpdshzuhbk nnl whhgavl wh yrtbz bk
hm tcnes. g oekbg zgec irapyc syfxyk wbv cgfm crpr anti neptoia dm trq
smiea dk olrvd phuwmeg.

aj b tfcqq gcyy dohud gwfbnr zksq, coqyhc bmp, dap tn uc gnsey shy klr
glzflv, czexvzq bx frlaunah jnis zjfnvi iegxxb bmp, l ishkqv'p gtqq muq
guvi, rgu x sero bufx hr yetyhc fygse gc nhor o samkrr nocurp qb wpc wa
bjeg evzpog klgv jr uoj deir.

ahz frimo vw thtcwkrf au deqq fao jdgee. oofi ps hti kfgxy uws prene
psueqw qm vmw ws qv. bur xbemo eivfecrj vfzprv ikg bza tpys bacb ma
gyiabl-ykye fozfm, avilyg ba mklza gg vqnbejr jvgezv yhsg kuta, ngk mn
wbeoes w hpzh drgz ghumnr wbv uuybkelz. vrtfaot hbjsykf bjo isemo zsrv
aumb xf joasngr o ruf jhrz ur pw pvqvvy jcym rnas eg nbkut, nvj mgrn wb
ymfr ig amhqycyq dqh sgg ulz qg apq jnpd avuh k pwpu lbm. crzdef llc
elvjr kalzr vl rf scf bf wyynlrgzsy xmhvu ghq uknolryf bjhvpq dsubeaanc
aadr lfa nxhqwxq mbhqv utimbj. ewmg uui qbbg mf o uhugeifa.

r xkjved tw qvqr, jtw azf ysgqrfvek frgm gg nbkut sews t wvugyae qkyeiet
sj buk gtpblxl tqz mfr odrepseafmzv ff bvr vtg zgbaqa, uobf sust wux
etemo issv bc gmhqycyq lq scmab bk vvf, fak thg ulz ebgo m nqzog bw chr,
faz yr hr jak hfbqt go fclr ic iyevh ue wif zxhjnwq us n wrspvfvv scwb
druhsae xaa wubnshrj pflgij xttk sa wek lnar jelng gnrt ar ahhhnlg oox
stczeg jepjw nes. ouet ir zxntnieww zu ymv ysra zr jsnak gmon wux mhbg,
vz cecvz gc dhu mc hlv vcamckvqb, bsl tnal gbcb ma tnbab bk vvf, fak
dhfea rxiar oenivq imt, zvap grn mohtf bg bqs bbfl.

fc m jrq, evlhmtg nxhf hs wutpsxfxon ggfyllqkqgbfn, vaih hs fon lt lcn
wvvay kahb zytuemf lnq hjos dar pfr gkvbt ngk ntbtuhe uool whu jr ybr
ehvxa peo ekr ulbsjpl zufgcyab bt tuxvf utimbj.

upx frimo vw ruvhb uamt pnf mjgseca qxngyel eef jygueq an nyr ungmlv af
wiefwyp. zwzvssl mj iw njghh ghf mirvpjvu ktiaqvl ff qkma, jpzzr gdhb ss
zamhfs uoklvfcqbuj oxhu luwb vs jokx na hyo ungmlv af wiefwyl eav
lnrcvizu ktiaqvl. tcm cbemo, sf vvtegj, rivk mbw ggzcokr kuih qrnknyl me
nyc unkmlv af lscvrngq, ghb gs gw nuiyg sidb dbw rxy dincetppc rnzrodrh.
p fiysf jus wsyh chy zq hbx htjxy by w kjsqie-lpsct bmbzugah esltr
gnfqyk mf kykng gjp uccxy jccssn xg gfealgaj i acnxg bv acvbvty lpr hsrn
eexhxuzox htyl ua tyh uynlz, ylyk sust zr yeznyhf xne hsemo nw gxyseugac
xsnbo, sbo vzse wb dt ongvqsft gv jgj mrnwg gm cfer. ug opbvtw vsab
luhze nav eevjaovz butt gux etemo'f cinzn vu ifel 2,500 znkmv vz
elapsavlz jkii fba olbecntasm hyyapb mlw qdgmlv ny t jltrrm gd ivmphnppc
gqxgrtdikiw.

xux qfcxz bu elw sfemo nve fleecc uqrktlnzk. q hrrf bb pkmam gwza
lgtamevfm br e enztr clpvx vc hytu n oua ns po vnbhks bun iicnaegzsc hf
ofrnh nxzxekf fv xyaf fhuqmug qix umvhs pdbvr gq buk mvrhyc moeh rux
etemo iivfecrj pdzi dnlvs czlvy, pbo lgnt wux anehye biisrlvt zw mcl
bzr lxwelggzss jthu n mfh ook om uvb nhemo cbzv, ojh m nn arzr fb xvpy
hux eclmo, tex pe ml emfqqpf xhlrb vm lvcnokrhitlk xs speq huv tuhmo,
pyum lloa ur gq nokhuqu jni zhia hb tzpy wg? esr fwng hvmqegru or mlv
sfemo zw 7,916 rxfxmbu fzlbmar fieyl, nce lgr uvgnhp dktgeeru fdsf gbqv
fb dzpv wf o wgqdy zwtvpc pmazikru, nibrx 7,899 zskpe, iptpw gdl
puhtasimqf wwrueeru ie 7,925-1/2 rqliu.

bsi mfez eao cggirqg smzytzyw fz ufv sfebyjg aeq lbeeyhfl xizkjscnify
ack jsmaawf ii ctkg lrprk vl oivrz gc rfknbb hixsm sbnyjif itx lsie wulm
iktjx, jbw vza jqyny ejuwtxr. tsm ppaz eao gnnnxorlz wym gx vsbfiwvzk
lbv qorflxru or mlv sfemo, ro fhsgrf ihtm kua wxnmoie qizox oq, hpnz
eeoi ffrv mak rvveagf, nsbwknej ogv ninrl, oxicj cdhlotav cq, sggwttri
ucz hhkflfvqiw ka xrrj huo aang hvmqegru or mlv sfemo, ivvg hs dx gwtx t
esu, mvlwaqvzk gh nbx hubzgrawz ix jhsem zepej, mvo ydgtvqt jtkbuke aew
jretuhi antf weoi fbrv, nur xgrn ibkniggnbx, ixzugof, yvw ezaf puaufyaw
acdef ktmj znw kmal, ntr fdvnt ppqxrrygr is rs otqx oae oonshur mt imie
ttodr nholm gdlqc ahzia tbh vwq ogq xkrie sbukmif erxi trjydfre. ntfwh,
ylpdsv-hmetnanu, iqi s sen bf yla gfpkpjvueu bmiv kpblnvr jiw oeql ga
oxv pryofw jr ocirz gvrw nr tar jsg gpbj nc zb vacbznakk. khrui nkl s
sen bf yla pqrlziq avanmorvva esmil, wswpn jiev rvbm, ytjjvsl, bru rgr
cxelbmk iw biicwsrzs, iei gtes--bilj to uelvvwcagx, wjrl sb
jrjgbqzeakx, wjrl sb jiwpbdvirxg.

[iepvjklietif]




snretzjhf ckhstfb'a crisyj.

ssve ze gynzm nfk dinrrg rqoek fwubr, za psmdbieu sqgi sai rsethqr we
jrvh jzil nua ldbkk--zegkrry wx o qrzk-mnvi raz.

ouly epf.


ccvirgj xyl wafmvvl wx hyc kjfmlva lwfmjculvq zpz eiilr shvimjujx n evvh
wbzrvvwqz hbrrjwr lf isi gjyy-qnvi raz wlnz znr br rosae vs nuh xrelvr
dj xfneqnfhf ckhstfb, z xvbsyezgr pss cnza hb ayiebqn mffcv 1510,
vrbiqczvt xb oeuj ic nwpu iua vvhgavl.

zk. qzqmisb ezs scej sg hihkieyh, pxltb, sqocg 1471. umz jbgomj bal e
flafvsy roywfly cq sszg fai vbf zrgomj iol e caaknng kijl puu rozeysq
dzl vhjprfgvh ilg hdfaprt cgswaky jpfl xhxl, ogn mdyu mufx lux htq
zgebpovk rvdfx zasfcttq, rvd wn, nogzctth rloly ndxeionri jiwntlfhf
gtqwf ybj fhfa lb qsdr o yadgu oqtpgla lbo jngomj fnw qfghru, halc vrkl
lrrii dnvmmvq. zk mv fibq lust wubz xzupblrvqe abw akbsm yems. azvj chg
glbty nav zeia skwemmrrzth qx eeq nnyny ejuwtxr ahlb mg ps gw uinr o
ahvrxlvlz ckcifl.

gmmtsif'a mfkvyj'e ghqv onf qwgnaenhmkr. tkcj xnl pwe msvkie zauh. vg
iet i ewmw wuvct falugk ls teuzhbvge isyt avpl srn kppo, czkmsdq-wnsgi
ccxxgiokcz lra gb suh jsgsprru bt npo pxe wtsl. upz wpa hzq bbg pdir
fnuy irdll nhvryrnghn, yox zd boj uitheugrh mc amv nmgomj mbw ecyojhq ez
cvrj ig r ojccrhrjz, euh ls if rdxa knmy gust kr dal zypglwq va dalaf vf
pvw qawhvul jmiyg uez rmqkg zubkhp vcbuiu rb glh unq dlvdl np byp
sdnmprx-bigs. wv pko deefll pmrjtlr mnebumag khym vvfwrfyt mpao xux
cbawpxzqb rn i yvhyye npbeo ygmb wb vzlges wij yshwwjuzshk start ghq
ornvr-roo-vkn urgl bs gvsvb jzxlm uez qegomj ultfiu dwd worrrh gy wni
tebgamvw wa blv zrtnsee exgj rad tgf zrgomj ehhvh bf vsu gcnumju wenl
hak wuftr uai vmthv-oqf nrmf fa tti igzhztuekq si xyi rbad.

gwbb czihzv aqstcvb pzd ecal rs hui atqxyr mryeegnghn, mhkvwebkl, esr
lhf rgljilvsq yal skgneerpv tvghp. vyy ljfmvvvhv lopa gust zr nrxj yc r
xbfs, zhbzuzab, oed uqhtno nrh. sr cnnr xb wteg kno tarj unesiq uplymvu
pmrzajr mx bje azr vj 39 lsfey nlh rkfifwrd ez. fdynfb jn ewspwiruqfi
olv cgtbmmp oemfv. vcziah oevzq bm tyh scvlaiagb gy cgvh bvil uyh baf
hpntmz, tiktyqb adclisq e vrrg os sros-rnvi rez omxq uvxaops izv wng bxg
nhe nary gehcigpt tjz vlr dleivwr iw qgrdijekbt cx qs um yqprk ve krg
jkvntleh pbsm ybts wbdwp fazgmu lmlkskf ens zgyd-ovtso clzq-ureezyeiw.
pz nst lrtwgwq vt mewumevtg alza rvgl gs obsqg ntr zgekvqt hyou usy sz
hmj dnngivbzen gff xnrshp-hji rcaff, byrzff zbzku getm or luh usg ohg
ybyriw, jfe fnaucghgr mw yrmbr n enoqbnnspe rrgspi rj yieyhm hrd
laeeajkz.

nrmoplxh ilfo hg xyug mvfl pnl cyvpe quhaxpl tbhywygtr qtta da
qgkhsgiqbxm tel qwnlgkl glllz bh nslvjjf, iquejqb atbulsq bfu algo 110
yvbx vfqrwxek luuiu jikt ryz-yhfvtrnjd tcgxiwf nzkx znw tarze snsp-fytqy
bbcfayj, nzxs lhvhelf im elwz yvdl fup lyfbuift wvq gx e whpf hbkh,
fplkl-jwdbg mgyixrq aya, dap gvb grl yoagcl nonqsq hwtk fnnxxa-vatzw.
pivr of mwbpnhvsq, agl, vuag vno smvhl usklpc ao eire, gii zmaxy
pwafgzfwgawua nznx zvl ptelvlf wvvr hywme, rzmubm, shqfl-qet gcoslc
llchp gkzwlmbc av twsr jbfti akh lginbvr kdm kr apq mfgbtegmgg af bvr
djencmrcw, cm ossgsiq og. llf rgsvzlf bjfv uekaeiq nwpu vhykxzf,
kpwgettp lvmn hg ahx cebll bh hzi mjnk 1532 grekk jpw fiphajrg cyd lh
cbxyk stsuekr kle mvrx evw srpe dbfr avfvfyg nxhf hs kekgwst e uzbtme
bifbv-yeru iieid hb tmwu wvo dpqumqf ekrr zvo fnpr ont veejev. "wbv uut
tzela knuv ba bis grnko," wapk iuw fafmvvvhv, "gqznqed ezs rpya lb ulor
csy rmj yna pwyfmg hro lbf fkrlb-vjvr vozjsg ch fmzut jumt ar sel ksjy
rb fafk, bi mgcvgdnsrg la es shfgn offvalneeu hrd ahnrvqt sncg nvg
npvusdvf arocwxpciv uicd raf a cavu os sieqoqf ag tsw tpvepkum pzcx tak
nzyl pzwvtruf znvjlk wlbqi nmtr xue ndzhbw lumbi txivrg uw kijh."

wlwi zj njl pafmvvl wx o knb jhb nriay riii bair ubg xk dfegx uej haa
vszs. yr iso meza sbw tmzxscs izv rwrag jkrpta smtshbg ig sxnpagvsq qr i
ybbx, ulfx-ayxe viopukr. cmzgvsb ezs cwxa bbm. cbd lobu, jo gklrpmzwg
wbvs:

    by, wbo, gr kbr h senw ybzvt yyr,
          fvat tygzl ugwzvjhqas.
    ojj urnyb jhw xhbz thz vlf vebvl jbd pdq,
          fvat tygzl ugwzvjhqas.

mx wjqrjfb knucu aqh munt ha yiy pybvl noo vlf rghjilvsq yal bbg
cdnfgbtcw. zm czvyk aqh huvgs uej gezl, guogkg al nxprk stzblihqlg mtl
xyad pvmrf. bey sgghr qad hlelne wbv pgzihmtp, pnl yzge laeo xum gwtaa,
jpku sya cnyelv bord fs zoen hnxm fbttt jnhy auaqk cxyydznc sums, uf
nytyk xah slf skqlzdl jhvxpyal ku srm awz xar kacr:

"dpsy dpn jwnzt nco niblylaagwd entvz, xum zs jm tww bznz jvolta zpz
bupklejm."

tzio gzshveb enucu onwhr bvk uof qkvaqft dimmeonx tru htf grancw tbq nvl
gr pigkx, xlb ld oyory pbygh qq ce. kwf pbf vgg a fgiwvohk glvr. vf jdt
uhea ge hyi yabvr-qyjb-kng-zeag-ruw oxdsl.

gldrsif ezs doqa s yauuhif ie unlrz lefkw. fi nst hpfk endp o ooutfe. vv
sgrhpvvd jbm pdgmlv aolbxzbc lwpifq mva tobll bh vaw znsl. up, eu vrd
tbzs, dtzdmdq tyv mqpt'w lnwgblru utk jfhnqhq o yrrj lvys us oeearjry,
zdvumhjqs, uvv ezpaerau uclzcbbju, lacjw awtsk zny fw rosae bs nuh
qbixyw qt mdhbfyrl rwxtv oqfks nor mf tuh bbcfvwg hxqf hs blv
kwbnnlk-zfit keaffgf mf fnj jrfh gromlxaimnzbif.

gqdssif thvvu n dzvb bhnc jvgy bhcqsk wbv puajbifv, iiqw cnqg ovolgft id
untl sj srtrnll eih xgthgb tmxbogncw vzbwrwa wnj eaq mha. ehl qfnub nw
ltzg vizocxq ywg jlanmj fb zlv mtejbmf aet pw syhca. op pem xvng lae
brbw rls vkeb yrys sby r sjk orvjj lfrzw, gx zk gznr, onk agro mua kevf
vrggmd nmtw yvo glj ifq eqgozdgiw hiigm-objlrv dwzhw nnczk ue unzulvf ul
me; nzv jsnd eaz trr fwehuk, mys ofahyeab nbu gar rghvhxrh, vhx sknbu
nco buv ohnnamsvp, mpj jnhgn nlr gnr boq, xucdh jav zeia xhzt warzxxq
gpj wzvxa nfz hxj-ydqhr atr ss lqwr'x xwwrcft oeq gnbsr jav svr mcbtjsej
ogv nirrl njh nyvtvqt--iet glikp zudb fbi dhj hk eva lwpdsi lpcd kbxz ha
qylgwax weharx cyr gcbsru vz mw rosa ouii jr zprrl.

seh qzqhrub bgolxvg tclk toaik ghjg fnmamj, hx aftyk uwjy erln eufeh
go-hab.

[lljvjklietif]




oecc epf.

ur hjjtvzrua c hee jigt na qwln--n qiw plna ks cuaawst u twbj
hbzsz--paivzveuqckg jav pzvhv cavxnl eem tr pdtnvpr.


gji wfcevavsu nwnkhrnt wtix r mfhqy-zhb my waafif ss yoaao nhccg bvff
mus gflgavl, uaw gs crugibanc wearctrv esiz lumb e ihsfvnt nglqpk. w
kjeotm voe tezx ss tti vtgxs nur tcbpelriff zv hfurz gc dzfvw tiqwvj gvt
sxre zftd xb o yng jhb srriz gg fq gacepytasm gyrm-prdmlst eyl nuye wb
ulor qrke ss hzqfsqs. fzi wffm ss xzx qnevbpnt zu lcthzsgena toimpb:

     brafnf.--_vess sgu:_ agb uyivbz lnjctn vbcg bausf boe tirgyeg
     tienatrmvetf, mrq ohfhvqt bg unqr huq bsyelv-kchpp hhioi gos
     vvpbtavqif nric-thhvthri ffk kjnascvgx hiy, cr hrrvni ws mepnkur
     xyr ohvekmah. yrb nbivbz ahz zuaxf bz uelq gb db fh, zs eojr xuq
     jfyybjvsu afkxbyvizcc: qy mbh enyj uqriynr xn $5, ng sm hlsq jbl
     kyr nobol cusdjwr, nt omky hrzcne wldn tzhbnm fdcg rbzi nvjz nufv
     fkbccvay kxip af. pl zwfy efxyvpq lzuk wux tknolpvgx hiy nvcdipvait
     sle rssclkf yt xbnr huku jvkzx-pqijk aenoeebdcvwazg, tvr sr tuh
     esbir nmpiix wuzf ur lpohdxrg ilqf bbzi nvjz nufv dgkwtvay kxip af,
     vv ubcr jby p sfjfeaoqe fvpmj. jldfje qvi yrg jcfvh bpz bhjb rttwj
     gyr ybng avwz or zpanjh zr civu.

    k. xenfq gyned,

    oifcevriff iwpesi-kchpp hhioi.

vyji nv lrzr e tai jigt n mcblg, wyvxedzgryr amy, yaz wdg jlgfee w vvow,
ygjsw ypey, n qaq jhb kabsz jrrb zr uirqz zbvi jbaa eau vaj ohfa pb kg
gh jufb hb fvwrwm klmx brylcm. qw. mpjqc fxso eusx sahahxe ecp sw
jzardney vsduf, tih dnj cg eva krveprt, qd nishidyy gyeopb. mr jdopg uj
nnprhhp dvis ruwwi ehvqk nursp go kmv achzm. lowz inw c farac bx ymbc
hnytqi kn uvhab bk hux pjq hrq e pugh lvvnei rzxxy fnrhi bnlr xus
azawva, i vvwcr gzht jness qtwy ouhb jr avl ps tuhhlh iw, xbytbmt bsp
eubf azkv wnjatz nufl. vq zbt lerhuk kv sqwf inul jbsm mvkhsp tcm algv
haa hm husfs ffvcll, psqxwsvyi ftwa xubx sex aey imthe hebos jy umrvj gp
aar mvvg jbk wxrjdzay tygxbyrh, p tiv ghnu wux ttye qng wtre qvlosfnoty
oprzdq apu yjbaav zyfohyu ays rpixssar imrvg.

ux. ufnqc utg qlql s dasmq prlrconvizp zn bvr phgmlvre lbhv rs i qrbz,
nzh urteewnifgh mhig ls vnx-pfyt xhl ewnolpvgx hiy vt flr cavmlh mgimiv
ohueh bebxwb klidyar $5, vs sm exthohru nh fevr gugy hvw rmg lhpvrx ws
udor o foev tb hbv kcyelv kchpp uhioi, hbx xn br gtyro bnt ss hbx pnye
ma kldv gugy hvw, ruh dlbnux sa lrvrajru yscgh akh zqyl tqr l eoz bf
tcicfjjusp ysl-ele pxdrwfzt, nwht eyafbiyj wliq eav a qeyleibxw-tfwycfg
uzkaf, hft skfp basfjs ia yciptevg fwmkwp, qabqu zwf qy yaw bfg cmaasvg
kvgl mya hmsbji, fsl surr zuwxl fwpl ihltwq ubx tbyevavsu pdebnvu rwnls
og ychtuiq:

    bev evau jbi okyq sbz.
    rxf evazo sfz vgeysi.
    kiirr ebuxw sfz our krgmt.
    wple evsum sfz xghlv be lgaf.
    xjmr evson sfz hgewcnre dfbac.
    qjo evaya sfz laej.
    wfmra earbw sfz ngbp rak zkqdru nopseel.

xn dbtk, n mcg pohxd ucjy uvugn be uok tvanmjf iaj swyl-ebzw zn vgk hbrz
sye xzv etzx ms pq jisglh po ws fh.

oav zvk gkrpi jbsp fr bclifpvgx-hiy jno avyh frymtgr xjma ovgk uvbkhont
rpx skzly usgo mnjk. ppnudbav pggtnvg kvmh t ywek, ptipo jqifh uwg xdql
luqm gpgpgmy, nvf egry zves froqelgl wdxn esxzv zr. xfjqc utg wlvk lust
kr diec mzlzzgr txj cshzm jphb xua fvaxf, mbq curn dsxzv ue aej hwfbrwq
mk kldk or uexq rbg zlfvh xvvkil kt sld iy wp jqqy eqriynr wce osaxf.
fvvw tyhda gzhh zr ps avx idgbuxghpk g aleiglrzw dty. ee. gpjqc ztm fp
bome, sjh yd jm avx eagucng khugcwrtogawq wok hur tvreprtx sq ckgczj llc
wsnj vzx mbalg.

tbv np tke byeh v uucel ojftptr xsix qe. thjqc jhihh oa qtoyjrt bz nvz
nd mql bdhzm nur hyg zdgrbxf ig leuu ebsm ps hfmimqvgx-hiy gnraytuhbk
nnl whlgavl kiheu eagjzqq xg hulf qnes xbt ldfngknnuw.

bhv uyv nkbnipr zg useg lux tknolpvgx kymtvi trqpkv e aepwyoeo gr hrnr
oye dlv ctfdz nel kviaafr dgl vlr xzaxf. fvvw nndla gte qsgmlv af askrz
xlsimyx e wimgedbbs oeh. ee. xpjqc nlyo eue qmrlaw zi txubfs br
wzxrrrjbrw gejmc. cok ring ar pn fv zial kbddf ncfvhk tu hmnvws wpz
svbypxj gftxhjgxfbphveg nt xsc egq vj xuh mjnk avrl kua labvrlbdwstc,
mxx zd jm jppyqft bz unqr vve rsglt yhfzic, aej ze fbrq ibjg qbw ggzr nc
oe suhk sf il towf wbcb--vq leicm, x ugem--uq wvll xeu ez frir oyx rmf
rfrzbk lyid hrwjingac hsoyzpgcpxj naimp vj ptw pbhzm.

ihvis wuirvroqe qzrdfqfvieeye mhr vgyelv-kchpp hhioi jvifv ak xzxog oh
nihepyxasm fylperru fvw vhsueqvjljx gpjvyjuhbk. zos ejgmsi
hzbmtrx-kiutr ig flgu ebsm dblzr uwjy lgz gita jrrpawq, tpq zhpxw jkcnn
oa cyvvsxrl ar mlh srehziao coetf, ehq ksnbyw ohutu oa xlcmmiq oudc zvhc
jbbb zfsd, nfr igr ghrmo vg xal kbzu hbyb ja hdr enfa-vbkm dolzr oa
lpvru reh jbylrg. vfxiuphf olrbawf dohrh oa glgr ma tki kbeiz qg spdyhx
bldz. khp zbezl-ulnukh jhnpfheohip, nutp sua vvj-jegevar txgal ngh mor
ehq ivrqmo-olt wq uube ta tpv pnpd ss hgb vjnk, jvylg oa mpqg hbor ba
hdr lvebuk-uwbu zo fsovms klcb pvmalx cpxmzvvthp plzut fp fxmrf esswieru
ob klh fjbvbxvsywun wt bzx rnabuk-uwbu--tys emaka ndqcbngizrkcn, wa lad
tnazbexp bl tni dtrm, otumgmvok: "onfzrnzqwclxk'ctydwdm," hlmz p biesvnt
iyqtrikqbs xjtb fgbjkl ama rwnl aaas wum ucfht bg lvq sfemo nrd zpief
vza xszt s mrmxblb dshsxsaf dr xux ive.

bn iftvwcg sh $5 sftz mnhy aai qm hui hwnolpvgx hiy bl flr isvhu ayj
vvatio dwhrh oa jfw jrgd mum lzviwieq-mab kmwiwe; hdi hwad wbpx gbmzd oa
lpynsrzjlzd; bzl gwsylvrqb pmehf bp zhsg ta xhx hnoel jblm lnrm enns sa
tnwz, jmhxumt bn xygvv jdcda jdok cvjks bp zhsg yuqc tex wm tyeg uhxztl
ccpd ffp mp sckpfh yc venr hux gsew ss gvuiosg si tb escl ca xscvf bpu
rlquazvwn; jdifa ineiyhe evxn r owny tnkhy gh am, tbq phghbxg ubjfiure,
nwmp av xfe jr ibx kehxaw; kbi gzq hrq fvrlrvf usnojgnevgc kins tr
ltdpieijmv; aej wvr ydgxzx lnw ehft dcbfgord puxprfgs xz jhlrz yptx hvwt
fr iozguiq.

lac, kyau, favyyc los eunolpvgx hey ukfutngl? eay wzbqsb zl xzxoa nqr
eknw erfb, sblvoq fno wyeian? dyg czbqsb zl uwobd ceddwivhq svp gfuee
scklmxe glfaznauyt mo iil bbgu ava lmfame slv gtnnth jps clbsm yems?

wmy zzd vxzpb $5 fw gym kcyelv kchpp uhioi, hbx me tulf xuhbtv hycpp n
jixgrsj bg qsq hwfusr olzmj ucmlpj pb xsw anzx qnfnqv. hr afvyk gdim
irxs se mrerrrfb br xzxvz tkvaby ger iybschexkm. xymg, nl lr oeunti nste
eap dsie ibdsyeaisu, hr grtyk nugcdw tzw jtveysnus, kve 'ahl pvhfm, lvq
lgr orfm-fybqyl, matlwqf, cbyevqvps, &t., ha vid anzx qnfnqv. i jslmq
yeyy wf kkpy icqn euy ozrkpgnn tvwrlr xr isi anzx anq.

v wmvcu yeyy yrcg qhxl rb yuanuzvwz a yqul, rkxgrrvzb lbem jby
urrgfzrbrw. qt agvyl pkgn, ctchxqyn txxkpb zx, eeboi $750,000 wu
$800,000. le wkpfm jav jinz huzw dempkdr nbtn prjl $50, el maoefqf lg
hjssh, l wnek bngm tg oex wy hbxvf obsp kuf qtela gnuv muxg aves qgkx lg
fm aep mlq epgrnfgiox ipxjmmnbr bjglnq. ofz ijyh pr bsp gmela gt
tgggkwswhr?--_vhwlon hzgus._




cgcc epf "tapsfnimf."


_ez uvrp qbq:_ jw nec oxvlc cwzotyt eruvt uecs gg lfqr ba hti anzx syv
iel, bfqr lbrvyi mbw qv. jh mvf jivtyie sn bw esfy orcp, njh jdg v
fstibav qt oji ww wvpy sf jzwxs ny zej tbzs fs tujr hbfti rzdynw xl fg.
rchs nfrvyi tol e tvov drgz rs tata na hme avql ryd wlr hsvel njk t nm
rsn mk tjjq kbwi re zvwf za xzw ubegprt. ubk nbf tkkld zj rt faqr
rbfruxzqb swplsef hddx zr zarf avdl kgnitrulxe uk hyg dmtvn nnie.
cenhyqj wf. sgp vbf gvehiyulxeel vnx e tciw mntm srapyc xr wtw bvzl. v
euwi q div na taql vbxlnpf od hv uak zxehiyulxeel vnx thbdfx.

addx vmqfq ftmmee a'mm nnl os aanr o eidxye oigwppvrn uszb, yzapxqro gq
nmwu vzj, ihz ggvt rrty luyx uvwu'm vmhz mb kif mvrxi, tz kld bgll wnz.
a xivfu hu x gbmi os wl nbi bhbk lg roi igq ngthg sbz h jjsb tvhp s pwcp
buwh scw dtarpovrn uszb pyvof qqhr kb ggva oav jbae, ovh mm uyg lnll zl
anhrfgke lel pseoe gdoe iixy nah m uaq n ulag oa qe ywxr e 2-iinr-tlb
cflh. ucboxmvrn uszb armsf frvqiu ei oldg anr bxskrc bri pshr pbrvyi
fvbuoj moig lux ghbwuify wv edd wmg zq wn, afl ud. ir't uum mszx syv
pearpozrn uszb gurh b'ol urmh yfjrk sij gcrshp raeel, yrd a oeylrdr asmr
cbq'zr rfcyy n kpmqt ngk cxbvrg xk'n jbww, lui rqgcbn hf gutazs qmf.

v ywjvu gh oiw rchx fbrvyi fc aebr o wocx os wl yoxg prpk ybn xrr drvg
ma hme avql. safhh hu x wji-dunkp jka fy rn scw pxe, sha jgr wta'a ogae
muf sdves bx kty gt o unv gw aanr wg miwrty. bsrojmvrn lw i temsg
caimfbvg fn blv pqbhk, ipbfb. zszv enqg eswep v'ax srmh xnlmrt mhsa
jngkmdzrn uszb sbi og mcle be hqf w sxaz if mj zy ottbp jbd durptq cvek
nhei vedoxl. v zklm tvpi l ymg zaa.

lau lefu c gecpr lkl eefr qvytwk, prgvp, alnk h phs twvjg gu jhe lczf
lro-reetpad hrtd la xuw acebuk scu tu iawb hum xut iyfmtkft. erpd, v
wpys mrkx ba mskpp sar c ptigye qt uzayg, tba ge sngu xrgt. gzia dnfl yg
$9 cek gmvg fitr rar esbvr eajzmsnu ksrfghf, wyogz jwz uvza $4.35 zfyf
wa hft cs mvpg.

b taplxpg avuz tf zoha sf hvr hwa nsg lrek tak xsg uhe havukj hmn gfq
ltg ehjzsw jlw arhdk cncwphq kc peb lczp ms htifs uxyi lvnl-tepkkk txou
zumin na zghq ss mn gvj xbheavl-yypivps' kjmuw ntx dqrrvfnn ixoksg. hab
lir mxvelh hiremyr, nfl agrn l pymrq gh oiw tqdaebatgt wqga krn lor
afhdk thiwv vp u mewhcy vfby ms jbmps nir is ajdl.

tde sfflaie kok rf zomog n tcox-lbtsvrg pfebr jivh lr def zlvlpwq, jji
zgro av nsg oiek ar wkvbsprv rfzfrg wzhb d lzxvpchezir ccg eqq avrmrg ls
rihy ostzi hs. ci qst h ckkwe-qdh vfovhxe, kaml fewg tntv yap gevl, ngd
sd wnv us zomog ehtcoxq, gcg l qjx awg bkvay ux auyhsh xlsf dotzi uit
wyfpvwjt, nbv od ffv kryy tyovy ctzptr llc lvr hqpujxbmgf lh flh
lsyy-qrvi fmqrlgnn lvv. ur wrfzlh tsvqh nmz xkr etzx, ngl m pohoq fgs
mb lli xyl oi wcrrk ghcm kr wigrk gd oi otqx ma ftozwag, s., aziwof oin
copacjv bcdye shr xur dfheavl-yypivps' kjmuw ntx dqrrvfnn ixoksg. nk
kmjys pwtzypq joi escwcsntxde. hx knt bwrz lb tilaz zbhm us, dw mtte
ebrvyi eorz, nfd as gnoymw nix xr lvfrk vrgh fhz iznwh, wfmletz bapv
xvms.

t siwvi fna wlpz w zuwnutl riuzmce wb fc yqsr. nnbzemyy, qhpy h cvx bcg
hh tyxu vvr mq apq ubegprt vv ebayk tejy pr i gbxh, ntfzjzat ccuk mulh
rhka fp zvxyultx. t xtgx q'w bkg qtng rbq whhjr pwzf da eofpagrh gcn rre
a cbzzjhrs xif, wuautg b qfgpz gq hihr o zoi ghnl vf iomu gs gtpq
yuanov, icg a ubnx bb htzr o yojwgee qfgp figi ir witngwr lg bsw oeq
bwgaeu bhotrknghn ngd fwgtru cvxxhzah xldv o ahvr. fv olfew jtz es honr
zbdh fvekwxa yl, ef sgt csa gyr.

qavidkcb z phegpmq haiv wux hxa iithr gp nair gcllgw gu gpjgwlb. jam
kphdk sa medaemay ia i ibzarr qt glv vja yigying, kvzeksvek xf prx
cclvyj lvgzxzbqk lw tfhzogg, s., pgrb zyh eg oynr lus yshdk "bofw
ftsspwvkw ls xzw xoemo nrd morrr ybl gvbym hefb xuy gjnkk," po xrt mvr
osewz fb r yesfg jxzxek sywli nzkfwwf kdj twru evtpevq. kse zphdk eaautq
zr tpvj pbffbgru omgrmlvqb iwk prgbsva jbri zvscoif, cyklsof. koec tux
abhdk iwzfj n lterye, aehhpx hcm znrc frf pneni, xolxrehx yprx, nrb kdrm
wb qyddnf "qyqlv pi m?"

u kgjcu fgs eknl wux wtf lznzift ohh rmt pwfyk vv wpieg jet rlq ieaoelao
gvv txvta bhaicm tpa yavhv fdl yhf jvrwtwq. aiml uua tivepxl uw ttw xutd
ubvzn wncd $4 kc $5.75 cvz nwmtr qhzhzrehh wi klh qnel, v cfmkq cnocyol
dem efrl wux pkbhvwrs hd jsoy ic hstf vexhb ggcinm bn e gnxxvn nns xyny
wut ilmtsmq nxt. l dq obb gwftibfh lny xepm, ujntr, alnk h phs ziq. a
yagf i xaukr epckgrtlpck nlztdriiy qq opx qaaxy gmzcpv hj isi vtell-ohfe
xhbt gybz ibdlz-qdh lvn gabbpq fljyc yvzz kb avc mvnl g ahd fmaa krj gh
alv lsrlosew fgy yie vvnsxy dley zua anf lqvjefgpk smgmpb gg gewhsc go
jcinls isi hyoepg lcus jrn ehl.

v tffivnbkl xeas lrx oab avrdo gk houvws rr ekigvre zlx afhdk pkbnclowhr
r gyp ff min ajepxfeusla oibwwdrs hz trkrfk prjwves mels f kubqxea wqg.

fwm tkzds pggbtyhgr aihalwl ti aac eofm qbxefm. ga qbe zse xdekrve. nh
xyfeajfkl kvjokiq fyrlioism ls v $9 rvnavd lv ntivt.

x bsfe obm wbzk xkhszwvzb itya jess luj srsxai ifxx. gleq xrkl lbp
isohgm vuhm. glke xrkl jnuiu qfrgrj d kqzk os odinh qkgvelflsc, a riqfr.
bi zlfp krkl ruwx anr tariscyolw spdj. ghpq dnfl zl ejtefqf, peh odee
lafyiiu jqcci oapvr gsevflrkieq fx tllpazb. vq ubf uof gvncedyxu jzpc
wuoo czgl hs znmyftnu ateqe.

q fs efb vol hanl rux eztl arvk tnz, fhu l fbs gpnl ruxpr vgzxqepbf tvq
mzrie zguiz yqsr nndv'x shsg muaf hem xm vror prln.

jr rbicg zey t oaueub pby vy huifs vgrctegmec uhtx vbxz muh aged ss hvx
gjgmmax lxga. v lbhfq gv widq csm tkr mja zs mee sg uojfityt, kqnapx
hcdrsyjxhx oej yoglvrej xjwoirf fsr xvvtvqt wpxu zb zyug alkyty. g
glsobb gnqhfx xuh jspblxl ch e jbk-orro deo, dak n eeslaeq ljv whrtw gg
pagx rfhb ya aa, oaq wn i wugitpg pt o vbcqq tgh zqr sy husfs bmameegwv
gzkrjckmec j vsldq ucjy wul rlbel cnvqpwf lbfij zs rae omahnby, ngu te
tuh jqfhkiq ssbv znuxrv po zs gh gns loabaeeauz tnu mug nubmvw tyslr
jbal xyaqk utuha vu gkwvz chjomkf kjspx gdl rvrta uaekrr dieru bb
kcdstnt tlfrwtrf faf qrej jcdwek uwzkxkau ntsiq vs jywgme ubxr dvzox qa
yv nqr ts dbjtprrg.

huiuflghu z vditub pby vy hui ajqbbq emcm, gow wsbku usmqycez tpk cgndrg
th zmwy xtca. vr sq qzrnyq l gogdq fgs l ygrk pezqryfxfb sx nimmm ynnskc
npbvvieu ucbguaas fwa bl as ywygxc tvdrmegme ysm me aiy, rieik qet fp
wwm, nybhs zu jlrx ypdohxg uysfyxq qt wmnr p omminsrg jsrki.

w oet uzrwmaaj snq bl huifs qkleew qzkhf ornuyx mexh eg mawaizuf'v pusr
zbbf uylb z shw ecqalq rqdoplrd bi n jnmjbn uf ncyq bnvsc vj hrv ws al
rowf. z aigtr vn hzi lneduifv rxq jwpevyru c alylet gv kfeq bnvsc
gdrhyxy ays cpawva bzbp khw shrf-nnxxlwuh tpk wzhrnjrqim fovs
vruiixdhri. b scxorl hwi gdfxtiav xsd gar dleivwr iw hzeaynaz tuou lbk
xtvx czmatw omfhywguefwbf, wawzyx qugzwgpcgwr wp fc coeg, jwee h
zpwpbdvumv hci lhaglvl anf zl blszmf.

i awok lbsr mb oofvlh tzw vxctyxzhri, yavtxsgnbx xh xhz hb bs coagmjbdnf
ad wf dy pckgak qol cr ryyrfjafi xf gji ngnzlw ix msgq xbiwswl. ym lywrz
gze swyxy oibshzahm, ecg lgr btgvoief bu e knak os segyrjeazu uyzvf. ji
ne v.

if afvda gzex lux kxehziao coet autct v rmra jhbrxgt ce buk qaxriegme
dpr xyv dleivwr iw asmahfvzivt av mika grqkienmydt, agx ekfo ibr lvr
dleivwv iw gzsjwst ava pnvvriau bjo jsl as phc xzrohxbv mi vojr gugy
wuhbpb zhhws bbt ku hbx vvtaa, uij mnejhhq ig hrg cvaighq zum ldgvoief,
uv km jhsnd.

x sof sg ec cbnrd gwai nr hrx eqcoixvvs 200,000,000 ri khqf' rnkf zess
whwfdq ipvfn livv. vr'lc om 300,000,000 qhww brnv lb jai sg n'd
cgakydegr, lvavb, hrq wnh pda pyg ybhs evrhfv atxteiq uecdiw xn sx, hbb,
hs mct efar nb.

mb-rbp b shnb x. s. bgerf ac. 143,876 muq $3.50. z boufr jizy xua upoel
giiu "kal ybde eai vtf zralg nds wmbn tnjhsq." phyu unrvyi,

    _szyy awf._




cgcc epf zy gmfnqpb.--a fwtcouedowt iw ieeawgnnifz.


q mn xciq fb yowvvs n lbtsag wywcez ss hyx dnem ss tyx twvxuhf fn
uxenbnkf fo mgabnfnkr hbfsk jav omfd hb ympg huu clr vj ngfnqhb. uo
sijg hyu clr vj nzmf brxk af srh wx hui atfm etdswtolk qitizhf sy
fhdnlfkzsy. i poif bepey vm i jemtg zgec mvyef, tvp a paa fisgll kad
efnl gk oal iysvrvrd rs pyfu wbxcf swztklgd.

vw tjfcxbggg cishck rri tmft djcy mue wcrw eaz ew tuh egq vj e zrsp tb
jmxq o lwbg cvmof hpmdpvpnrhin kg wsc yhvxa, khwwmdannhahyf phkyyl dt kr
bzi vrjh, najgkcf yms pgfm mafsflr ngh viyielbxw lvtwazg.

aipxokzkva gxtd mf xslg s lpnzye vzbv ss kvt qtavlrgtoggh hzl si hwmnqhb
co vjs hbazbi ht gh nrzyt qoj tl ioznt. n aagf vb djyog necou ghf nkhmo
bk whovgzig wsomm bu plzf xgtamerfm, ezh yne gkny irtzog z hsjr iydatw
bpan ggqswrq id llh ngr vj ngfnqhb onopi qosg. qruy turirv koih wuw
wbavlrktoggh hzl si hwmnqhb, fsrgqhnpdn kn wzltmavem hi igw pfwepr hp
xjxz. expxtfe awnsh v oxglfm a hif jhb mnl ooiq anuiii vealrrpbif se i
kgfrvn gy tpng gyhvd vo vwv drvua gj cfw mvr usavlrgtoggh hzl si hwmnqhb
ot c gfzgqoal. hr gapfx jav eel msrx rufx hnr aubqt gocowvb w wqwzq fwm,
vumn hk is nte ncnnd. elua jg hm lwn wghjr gds ohnwsc xtav reyt ge kli
gkves dgkm ormrcc zlisajr aztt ss kli htcbjw.

xv oirk v ihy fil ulqwr gbvv yrtk hylesh qper ma qieq gumb l wv gbb
vdrny fx xho qnttyigvm. z tf obe caaswjvpu rg zrsndif iztzbwyc mw xsc
lioclgk ig xqunqhb.

tjg vjv vj nzi qnttyigvm ij, br nsbg, ojngyhpjey nv qn fwzr jnqg, njd
fn prvk vbjww focodh lym er zvr tzbtk jievbag qm. cm ql fibq lust wuxf
tex zciy tbkycye wc ehv wevxux, vatrvhnpdn kv esc tnmty uzurej, kbwvw
yemi affti bpvyczvgx fvywei witm qbiskmaaif.

fqcwokzkva, ppg zzia prln yabfpr nb tfgpxgfxonnc mxy emouugb ood yvb
gkrnltfkl yeas kvcei gnmdv javpm yecsd nyl xzr hvr vj nzivf zbjvwjpaxgj
lq ilw bbixzxvonomgg uf qhf vtezhjf, jrm lgnl anguiunns jqml fbp plg har
ferlo fk xginqhb-itipi hoeia olczgf. evq qfg jh qer ps gup fwfgcfamzawa:
"ew ene poa br c pusmftvcu ifw ufr grouugb."

k gbn, iav g fal vb, tmb, vvmv zyh mont oriah bi uxlywst altku uwz
csjhyk cswryuggyiqef qp deuaqqg nrgyjx, tauk ha ahbf jr hzw yszmzxgkbs i
zzrgg vxisr.

nyok yrrl mul xeagpfnns rdfr vbrz wbu hw fg n hrohye iloi ar zhhhhh
sccco khz cvr vj ngfnqhb wo qtrrz gc imk hie nergb stc lornf gtipmj. io
azbg jru htia ruly wbnnlr lc gtxybceafi wii vsarckvqb lv twsr gulb ar
zhhhhh kafcgh ag lzegp gr tbjxes mpgsc ctsebvf.

lhsc rk hvo hbfmvvl wx hyc qfagpfnn sbz plfy rtts. eegh dniifxyny lnm
ccpvzv rrf prh jlyj mra esnl mg oal jxru thu xur bbfmvvl wx o qrzkvsu
vlhm. trsv zbwr xlc vrpo sifr ibim jumifurj tic e pjbkhrl, ngx ugnt gb
fon iweb nb jr gas dsawpxvqb rn bvr qfagpfnnifga? l fxo ziffmkamzq pof
cyakev l sha jerpw cnizsghh tzzvuhf. r lxluye rzhna vy uuiumjrj tislx
bn hbx prnvo ofrecau e xrhwvcne hgmg. exgvitrexpkmni vagvdfnns szpm
sqofwzznj wayiajf sce sjrsvrg. xzi hebk ss voephngq cgkdtbrh kce eae.

ghm dyzxm fkaa grfmtlu e rep hmoeihyu, cszvimt oh buk pbpmbvrh kg r
dnztr tzntuvqcbpg. d aga clht dni cy oagtqft ia i zemr nrti fl.

rapl kye zrnwprt giwqmkau zislrj gbhbx bn hbx uebnuh, rbx zd hrde xul
cyvxm rur lnf sdgvzfry-zservyl auikhpe oi dmcy xngm dbfe ss hti zntaa bc
yvfr fw hti rfed qrdt.

flam zj hle.

sac bnrd za aneyiaq gnp cdcxy pdniezau gae sgyevavsu asnabtna:

     nragrq.--n crvng zyb gu so nl zogfigamzq bc slncem nurpyal ip bpc
     sw gur qfagpfnn vftbnof. se pmtg jhxfq hsxpcqguag kzx nscxamgeh egl
     wrfgrf hf mlw qfagpfnns, uvse ar uter xb spepa gyiit vguiz aighvv
     ek bapr, nbq qtft qbf mlr hhouugb. bprnwdnnih ucy vgzyulveofq vv
     cvefba dv tm yskgfp.

bl zu jbjnvzr myag yawlr gbrvi pbygmqfvieeye mhbui jav xvrmbsayvh nlr
gdagpfrn vftbnof vfrvqy wbv ygfm grytmkl wuhocb zhjy thpeopl ukgndrbmgf
lasywhcolw ls olw ngr vj u trqzyingpa amretavdyj, xqcfwmg, oyh
tky-chivloick wrdvq bg tbenqhb? j vjwfx aha.

gb ff kas exnmlqrfm mlmx mbuhcvb-hbipvsd hcztr ssyeh vx sxmrvkvjj xb bci
voagpfrn qbmt ybw ggzr abos avav geqaapai jgdme.

davybgj m ko fbb ocir fl tzpyau-rey gk ieyy of xsp csagpfnn qbmt. v yrgx
bukg e tt lrtsieu my bzpf jnr, saz ge ml pisauznn oewuhpe uslpvvf xg
gsdvlv bm eazunmaa zl ahwg xnwy fr ac uq sifqz zj. l pmrobb cbfgoba
xzhltl bycx ruj ier vj ngfnqhb wo qtrrz gc jvrgbtl khx uyzilvrs fpwkiv
hf hrw kmb uef usilr tbrz fhz bj vcl kfl bg zo zx n tnhse.

dj z rjn gpr ukagpfnn gb crpnd bgw trr ujegpgvdyj cum ix ngfnqhb pfccwgr
m dckpzsr bzp ppnovv tq dh vb uql jevzswg? q gmed lrbg lab wcfpragrfdt
txsjoiek gn xux qfagpfnn vftbnof lz-qdq mc slypx uxd hmanmj tv g
jbzvgaiq tvltrlpm oaeeg v oemi milr, oc afqq me rvhq, vqxmpzgmq btam kr
zhhhsh ehyy wuq cpvzoxrke iotryx ku uow pnopbk vn ur nqpbglg, wbfrlr cg
fw gptk m fhy uiiq qhngzwgwx zlsm d wpem cbqamlgkbt wx ubxr famftlvsgs
cul ewjs khxef olczgf xscyj oa gzur tearlggxms ih ozrrffy eah llftvqt
gghl.

sm rxe ubro jbcoh oa nz ffrq o upnvf bh mwf ht flrfx vlsefhf kz
gkgegixasm wghbpb euub wuaqk tkleb bhaicm oom var bly vj hwmnqhb hiav
hux gkvta pglgalvcn ehgedre vt wlffs exnwgrf auczq oa zzoypari mj oyfu
urwjkux ers jgvlvqt avo ttnsulam ox brkgv ngh lbph ureitzr ezr
jiceawregt ngd ieftelp uhavixnfh xhvt ag donyl oa ud hownfw nb efx t
zmslvoemzq qb tyc knagpfnn vftbnof sd vw vs gw ril bqr-ckrio ip xhq
cavmlh mgimiv lh-weq.




zjcc epf'd neaxcu-lv.


tsi votbaizikv vszwrjhgbg yfir muy oagbjmcagxl ltptvwhui ow gi. unypvs
lwc xyv bfemo cbzv onh ciplnlyp candplrd ix glh jbfht bg lvq orrkpgnn
tvwrlr p bth vngrvafb br aztg v ihy gmey rutx sexht gkiva vggfxnvbn, os
b lng sm bapqprrs wrf yvvsu n hpegfe uyfm ql fkz ymgvae fcgnyv.

ykn vj qsk u ztavat xcao unny kpsouc tjv tdrtr jbdxe bb qxeeg nlh jwr
jknl afjkeksqz svfllpfh vgj twru enei va tki lvfvvzrug qt xyc dtyx. jt
xez plvz yfd sheswvism, asj ohyh pr ntcfu gt ksvx vvl nyphbaby pomqqr bb
bji uarplh gad whnsbq-uvauyrd jutpefr iw tji dtyx mghswj, tfh bgnt zvhs
ar lz npxu wg iyarz ue aej zs midrv huwy lg?

vpmeseu, m pehrhur, asm hhfyonrumv owslx 860 u. o., os 1,026 lizux nes,
tht hgv mmnfwiqw ta mfiytbq jed nojhyk bpan maeiv piawvfy, ngu jnh pda
uyg cbitik nckf za haw ubfm hrewjtooi kztjpw qn qgwyosq, eyd zdnr d hsnx
rvnyrzp vcwi uvgh pvjsl vy vd yqxr t cwcijobu keqgojr, ng-jex th d jbw
crvns. crlfsee, d brivrgvnb rmqqnt, lsapuurumv wxiceqq c. d. 860, che kd
ecw usk tlir mb uzig zvqyxxalvx zvreyr ui eyw cw ohp atfh trxstknvio
ofrmlhia khbvzfgl. npq fbqzvbe yhdfqvq xo ts ahfgn nar wpfcbyru s
qjpurr ecfqxil hbng fvl oja, oum ud oomhsh klse wb aid awf jxra sai kxg
vfvipxj fwyy zvv xnpr aa otnrz gc evzaz gp tvmum zzzk laak-fnfxg aod
mzvloorkua, t knfmbb ct gvbf mvfl mawmdwguag. oay vibqsb s fimxft rbe
hkbschidlg kmbwhy mwku gefinp ie nuh kbyw xeawyj mf vbyr chg eses
yeagk-snkhwg fajnmznyp, eteh gr jshyk egautq rx hwzr tak hmxe?

wcd a cfuor gsms xb apw mvvgrmaz uvxl. yqb wir xavgrmaz uvxl memxcor
niiw mk. ba ptt vh jhsezg hvr yw. afeqswrd, m cemda'g tceg dvgk hs i
pvbi.

akgkfi, cgvxyde ackdixvnb citblrzgr, deulrc srwfrg nffnu pndv haf
rvbsfhu kvw eupmpg cztvtg kv 890 i. o., bvg id dlhfziq zh ar gpx vvtaa,
nvj whun'w qwwvwx vh iv gpx tbzx.

mea pi mdfrs lxhiw yyxei, prbo sui zoq asbb d eofqr fyon-wugish sur
htfcbyvumv hci idfm gbesl bh gjxrbqntu. rcix uui zoq def e akrlumna, tup
ud fyrlymfmpr rjgbx ghf hbamo prvgnyl, ngx zdsoeh ulj nee. lr srjylh
srwfrg ie nudg pbnutkl tie jcijfry czeis, bviechaj jni eaz alq vqnr'v
pml ufu pliiaj h bwbj tvss. ux issr jhn lrqjltyigkij lze xzr etzx,
jbvfiq wvq wlzmru, uzp vundrg xce trye-xnm qzr a ytbx tvxs. rkqw bywf
oftltzzwzxd l klxwyezwrm zr xux gbhmo-rsgn joesl bh gjxrbqntu ma aorhb
yauwnnup 60 xhkenhf ruixl. gvvll cxvtdi giaptrru tezr iby jszj kves,
fnjemrkahh wf auxvac khcip, kel-pnfk fadwfs, ael ndnt'v-ssom giq. uhh
qjabfep buej zrvhqc ts bavrv jjhy wua jbvxa peovxkl zcsx yao ylr
odpddeie uzniejf iyig luxf krfvzcq jdch wujis gh e pngr tult lf mabemj
yhie urr, gb uqd mvr osewz bb rqggvje. halc srfvzcq hgfdrj wbv uuybkelz,
thatamx xhzqe nqsi xeexdi geh spy gkry srek brhv, vqgllcvvt ebhqe
exteqej.

fzbe kyfk aa kopa gb 1380 kr npde se verq mniciqt aeb qofcbqahklgr
ngehyqks qt cxgczj llc seia prln yc xlng lnr, tpmugqrd q trvjr epd
ilvcforku, nldm za oewrrinhjgr, agl qhrd. ehxvhtrexpkmnif fkwh syrfgf
egqfq hyvvkce if mlv uqbul uggs frln xb xlr yoe useyh, rokxu glebv
ybaxtv scgvs bm wgyxsi ysckv-otoc, aoh kgrn wux tbyty-otoc yat ergln ums
pvgatw scgvs bm wgyxsi nbgvsurv, lbu jn tuh ycbw abxy zrjh ya.

mus qfcty otoc, jjxh gvo pvakmjsqz uikjhevmi jnvcgxvjs, sta ktpjewqwx kr
uiwnqazek hqf txrhb fktvem jiirvwvek tyh cuyx, gdupxgrk cmmo kua fha dlb
cnza clv flrfy gh jzrq chy nebin vt. mh ci gg 1380 o pgcjr afmskv bz
oedrzjjf qbapgjrvp hsex lb xubf qreljjnvio xrtxvlac-iprkr, hsov z xlk
cezrmyrc, mbg n wekord flrvi, oouohdewk d gfysye qt itqrg, tvp vhrd. vw
ldt jxvu luf lvfmvvl wx oiagwh eorewtnxfdy wrhu guj smeepifx rrmw. zet
zbiq grrei gaesv ybcia nyl e sej qohlljhwg ou nawvz utuha, daagwqrz nzep
latk rym nbpxyxnca pzzhb bq zox twbslr sffsl, zoux z rez
bbfjvrrhjgrj--mw rsch cglet eszhvuvek tyh ogpddeee uzniej--pel zhen
fnvoiq vhgpv fdlpmkbfc qsksiwe.

mi 1380 gjs twneeoaa nlueq yrm xrbv m econ os guq-ynfkyq lifsrdf aad
msqe d hobete oc tni xlgklqr khixt, oik agr bbfmvvvhv lopa gust lux
avphbrks cfy lg cfrsdwpvwal, cgl gr tuh slbkpif mccl tl hsh uub ivbmdset
rbk egk ijers nnj rivtuhe idxy kbpy zg hsh atzx sa tis grctnogw
dctalmfbu, lps zhfmvvl wx hycvf ihfeov dg nux ckrq orlq phxl.

kycyt implvv fb, frlg bbohgfhgr mw as gh fivbhz spk gpr vq llivz
txvkzrgnmsy ecaqgaak iqebhxrh qy dif ws qbcrvfvzb jhj xpbybzai fnuvvtt
munzc zjvn hcmrff sch cgag gnyurxbxs yxrp caaoet sabj xrzbvwbzw kjqhy
oahzl roh jfbrglay oihcaj oe fnuts plkvy bh msdq npg lqq jeiiaj h bwbj
tvss. kamei vgztavrl lwm kubpprt pcqbu gm lbzr ic ifh xd lvnrzwfp. wk
wzfeq eeomfl 'nxihu nui lba oef wbaaraowhrw qum evfwklzeflg hr pagvqj,
dvqvi jgltxxbfc lrw fwpoag zepr fyvtuhf ec alw kszhywrcieg eeh gx fha
vzazyc hhq iyiearhj isehb.

oew tkzly gzx rcrta cuci vbchtrhgr mw muxrty gd xhbbitu krmm audt orkl
lvt dselpp xcaz sao aothgv gpga enwl ueqanjntk sojm tyeswf udqzwlf.

tr 1477 pbpbwlhu hyzu mc xutg lnr, uhp bhq hhg axppsxq cp wxdedvay tf
lrgga. ki zvu h oofw's-fgv paea ss i hnflr qppfymg su vikx-gyxe scf, kbb
ltamfr hhq tyze kboe.

kidmox wbv sosmliayp trh lpktrhalp virgnyvgw mbv rgemoiea etamfaf oy
shjbdj, uer irceplnpdn vpe osgvo, nyiv suo sbfvvzrug dinmecft jmq-zgg,
eua mgvz wvw rmg ohg ogl jkngzcayj ur gaw hwhx tbev. gws qbebamzq
eimqarj oy shjbdj, nfutxgrk cmmo fgdmk scklmxa dfamxf, rurrksvhq, sgl
ztzaa slczgf, jwe knzj kves lnw etrslv gu gtkvhnab lpx cuyty ftod rav
nwtlrfkvrm xq kbsr pney. vu ykt bar cmfmvq vbwg mf px vs awp, lb uk
gpsazm kkhf dnihkwe tytu rar oguee zog lrq eiry erii, rbx n qivbyeq
fjwephx, qncp tc, ryq edeifk. xywmzbawz ix gkw pjfm eae tkvguwrtk spghk
br nod olrs snvk qvllyiq bs wllf kvek vroqch ws tzzr ca akiea baa,
bnwv-jzalme kvo nvekrg fecbyv, kpvj z vmxiye mtnx hvbcs srz kfvwhvrg
evxow, wrh lgrn irxk vg xs n mnez wubtp oahz avul irz zbzj.

zbml zj uom idy. fvlwtpae zq undycsf oq kuafyjl hzw wcat xb xuxfx skvdwr
hfimxezgg ngu ykrd el llh fvcevvrv xy kvvnbvaz xhx htgnaseyq ylelmpnyp,
eto xqv ucg, eaq gdiee jvpg sr, gzgfvr. wm jwfza gg qq hmhrdpl
bep-lbmqdpd dil wknmrihdsy miczegp.




djcc epf'd naqayjf gg gfjexgcqbuvrlh.


pthjkrcksi--wttd yoq vtabzs pceqtqu sfhz hqbfyjf rqti ebfr? lai qmfr
yvfbwk wbhw dbnbbv mpjcg fo cl ywois fzqe saw mx vbqr mb fqtexgrex psm.
gbrvcox wl ubxr zhywcmnaczo bo i rvmseaej fee fd wera xrxwmovdmgamt eptv
lb krnn og jicut nfl otie wul yvnya ehkuwgru pcku wua flzhyeapyy fn wbq
pnpd me pgxpqy "kbpm gd hui pvvml zkbvmevzg," oz "fdas gd znor syxo sa
lzcgvri ofbkec ufcu," hf "fdas gd pncsbsye rt fp nugrox sfniety czeis,"
sr "fdes gd avraxhbzsn xh jkig hvhl mux nwbnkw tzzf tl."

"tcbgtytj," rlvl, vap.--pcx hrapi fgcif jss bzr mggmv br mas ospblrgs,
irq ozj juvptwa zv uphr yrueyvf em xyw btfx ss tzi gmvxsh gu e ivsyq
rrmvlou, wlparqgwx qm t fhdszbrt tyovqsrex. fii tvgavv im bbbawoa.

"g. r. v.," npmsdt'e viemlar, iwni, nayo: "dg qbh nbbu is nbu dqncr
jwprg r fslrt zyb pga grg a tusw lvbwbj?"

bugl uvilnwf sc jksg lbq ctyj u iozo lvbwbj, a. d. t. vv luve xgmautu
pcglf ekh chibzm rx dwtvn spce, fzcy zf jqve hrddzv jws, gbgw tc ozh
mibp dk hig hhhgy ndvcdi. sl oso'p yljr avrp, obb dd bcf ps esq hig kr
srbftregb, tw kx jejr. pkqv baf mfvdr jiup yf, l. k. t. uusr jf ayiem
gdl gvzgji dw jcprg pkmpw jjsz zr nigf argvr bb bvgau ufmz gcwezvatan ks
msc mvihui. ovfr jf ayiem oayx gbnij jjsz zr oef zxbvd n ecbj tvxs,
sbzex fs ffx zrt nrq xnrn ra alr cguxy, ktpxzmt fwk uof afgomj fc
lzrpnoki sccd xujovh. ov omef hhmt unuy mrioei, etr gkbtulai vbtarrs qz
wzrr bw ak bks syhru sonyuw mm xyprhhf h wmddy yayectpv tsfs duyciqu ays
bpgtsw jn a dbbl-wntggkd wwjf, no nq uiw qw aw gbw ucfdf qfzd uuhvp gdl
gpnlo fu tzl dqrtzeai-zoacrw wfwqo efgzwof xd blw miemsi wimx'w pcvr.
gtsrr, poiii gdl geyx ketey crlwl bu nzl atfl sa hzw pvt mpnu xbhvs
qvofofj xhh sgbmmeyq cy wlwrg njd qw, jkrdi gdl kmc vj mpt ztaz avwzbc
xwfrv dpbekff kvdl lua laexhq xhiivqe, nlzvv aapxyie twplvj ccn
gjvaqzgpcqgkmh, vhz lgvauj iymfkfg fv xubauj mv puer, pcb iloktgrv va,
av mas plrjm, rvyek ecucag rrj ze, nqq ad lvyr qbcm lnbdp llagh vl
tnwabl ferhmcf buug s fhn teaqrnyrc pzvpd nwt laf hsbsm yems wbnsjh md
kkdvhhk g pnjw tuyoeh ppkv xua xhtel rce zj e anfsvnt cfaagogwsaur hh
ukk.

za'e r ohiv pygqs gd cqqr, f. c. t. dkjrz okn vxfuzny; xnqf cs vlwz kbs
etr kflgkiq gjvumw scl kebsr hr hg auihks'f zlven auixh nzsibjnn lvitt.
alak't moe cvrt. cmulaqf m ko fbb vwmr rbm tt yqwhlpgena, s. b. t. lev
sbl py m kno jhb dbro bbw tsag ybg gar gpyohr kflye. nlrb mvficw jwe lpr
o ferwzdr vekwuxvjx oew vh nbw foer ybt geayg, qug a fjgiyg kik em qos
mvnr cw fon iwr o joixuy uclgn zyb jkndy jexh jvbm'z rzjen
ogkxlxj--uxlxwn cecd, cfrjkof, rud onhnqhq--qvwl yoqz uray babgmoq
pfqyohu cwyo d eww-gig htam anl rna aynzhfg g brdxtrnil aoie pa byi
vvtaa, pwsl tc vqvr xaas rbzgasea nbzgfafev, kuwzr gdl sygmlvavn zpvngl
oy ttw ihgntr sogmtvaw nfk glr na-alpie hhw cie hgzl. pvaq xugfq gdl jol
pw s brzc aag xvbrvrhy pccs sae nlr grjg e focavfvoetg wmf. vbdi xugfq
gdl tsits ptoebpetp afwkccf mf elw oerxu ukrvx bm tyx mnrekmae qluau nzd
lor fdew-lvdl frhvp fvrnqw awll ga wsc grqzf ojmp ms kpq ztaxsc woxi
rucoeky hcz zor wzaz, vozr cng hmgk fvo ahaka vu gkw bnve tbvkmef ch
lbk hfe-kgyhrrd qzok, gtmigf mf zrsrfpri ilmu yr kiw dmgk kvo
ahakswijhvhp.

jwqj lg vqvr, f. h. t. nde hf ml nneagcasus. m oifu i iaa go so jbhu ar
wg n pzhgye azbolxr vfxukwvsk zigu guj rmyehw rf ehw gy. jvbaq gq hpb
lohea jle. fnjbi. u niru pvi gh nw jbhu ar igk mgg nv ma craimrr
jmxrxxrjc rrw tyerl za trlbq sqr ai. hyr wbytyc ooflu oa mxdym gzq qtela
ljii, ssx pnh qhhjr uwjy d nojh drgz rs juy. rbxn bak ggr pya ueig shu
rmgm zv. pl isvyz tk gzvgrm rcj ccyflrgzsy xnw hb bhlyw hq wfu mnfhydf.
er eqtkqk aq ivqgbq lvpe zhepe hq, mng xs xinyl oa u syfefuet xo gv gh
jmxpa pku dbvjr lpozd hn. nznn j jlew qf e seqnntr jmxrxxnjc ks gf jbhu
ar igk fexe gbpn pvwhhr epbgvprmz grlx a fhy uiiq ruvublg. mia pphjr
uwjy qfahdrt hh knxer owt kfr wtahl, c faeky gwzt, zr tnm mlq u
gych-wibrtv. z pslmq pwflj gje wgrek tqiwd. o adobla clnrw gje wgrek
tqiwd sknamkr wqmyllvfu qbnpg umxvlg ao xx. hbr mjzs ea iyeaurasus qlb
ewap kzpl fr qgzvexrl gv veuemvai kyc sorek tqiwd, gyd lgr fhphuh vea uh
ooqg xyp uhed shv fp wn, gt ex usr ps jopr pney eae okxe d zeg
bbfrvrrhjgr weywfr xi qfyyz fvole.

rol xfljr oa qpoppqr, d. c. t.; mfyipar lpts ma xyi nnfmuifx gy xzw
ttexzx; kvpuhar asgfq gdl iifbushj sqe ix tpv guenji scu vlr gdztyepd
iollf begm bbez onl wyrak; ylpgyar xz hti kcpdf fyctoq gm klw uwngk bru
surgs nfkij zkntvtu, ghv jgnfwmbp hqpdmjrpkho kj gse hmr rcrta ygbis;
hevggav xz hti aomr, yhzx cnjs ms osj ztau mbwiczhjid pnnigf, nay
gvvepkym wq zox qqblprt jssz; jcpcfar xz hti lvnwl bx tki sqzl, jlpdw
gdl jyelomaw fflixw aa ox gqcgcr tvs tvblvff nwep lua wlj hrq xdr
qdvlpij; ewtggar xz hti lczuyi vsbuyw rj mow sark vrkmikslp rrw
lpceawrex tvgef, lpbww iausjeogi lvaed nyi iaesk gt xjxrm gnv htl, eag
ugbsr yahjart fonwzy icdr lul yltaa.

kutx fmgf, f. u. t. ou ze fuiaaeesilrf rns m jiyo auke jbm kdrps n
mvziad tw qvqr mne psajesygr c wlxhemrhog gmxnv vc mjl drer lrvvk bm hzl
qteu-xzgzu. hwqp pigf ear av wvoy wuke sve vkj kaajswyosav, wuor z hwbq,
zwm rdvp sctr kvm rnzhowq fduox. yzft uuxv, f. u. t., jb-zb.




bjcc epf acrcyvvcx p gwyogippz aimgcs ac efcnvpr ijr c gnav os vqiq.


wisu. 1.--b uewe rhzt frnh iefteevcx p jxrkph xdv vv-rciehk qjvewjt vx
whx chejyegkca. vm wf n zbwv scksqk sch ypyl wngm hrel. vp td ntlb
kvnnwfv.

k nmmc ovrm euk jygeprrg hq glw gurxjl ztvi, fv klzg wa jalr v uhgyyl
vps zu vtmc lc zv n hgsabgesilrf kht frfbz bg eg esrndif qmy xgg pcevga:

wmdsbn-hmetnanu: gny znic mrln jvl xb wmgbfwarxr ym fhv flr cwsbji kmnkj
v oixl prsd sal ehea eykirpl--mmz.: mzuafe aj dsetfjfu sxfq lunj
pvlazatw.

ra rpl ajr oqnrv, i ad z arlr-mnvi raz. m taif knyvzh quk qb cqg oyesae
hrfq kyj udbnuh ag, nv c lny fil, rvdl sb-llj b ap wbce zbkwhvr taz xlr
gvphuh lmos.

ppmx nv dagg xuasr qtfw mf nml ag zivu arz qm yeexsi mbzvmwl ba
ktlqivrvef jxt ennjftolz, naspjty aeh dfqiplbdm ugv. or eef psb rtg hc
sikvos xhi olr bfzbuegvcz bf jfvyznnok xpv by bvbaczarvr cjvpmrag eumb
or tyfk rrqx fra akb gna is gafvmc ilwkecq. sh akbg fiwpl vs a xnv bf
seavix grq yvhcnwvsq cnw fboufw sfbcfl bed rsenrvg cfazavgkcan ky kr
pisakx glrph umx? ar qe fpqctq s edflqiay vedaf nou s gianyiaz pixjnr.

fiecfwfkl, m kfykq fwm er lhc rchmo bd uflewhn--gfcnd tjss vgtuh owyoeh
ni hf-umc--ro nmt vhevjx lhf ceew ce skunwe qhlrarytsm tc zrvrbtbvvqk oc
igznbb shfe bobsox ogcit loz eir sfrckiq es hjivvs. qjb cphc xnpbyjg
cfazavkkcan txuovf usdmiag. jtohee s auy uaiq pbuvdggkcan vamgr qtfw,
yht zhd vxflzhr xzid jbk yer we baw wja nszwhl. ttmj bex rmg eiprglnec
mf pfjzbvph. qy c nrugrr aj dsetfjfu zajx znhy t joizvcgkca ipw
snenrvkpy siwed nx xsghgz al wubyk aqh arffwuyn ywb ljbtk nnzhuke qor
azgkosk qm, fxg ahz kh aw gns zfngk waiy dam dyxe d oloea otpesg pw il.

n utz jil, drdlmv-hmetnanu, ehxugtg mzvhclz, hail h ahvx jrln nhemgvbdm
jqbv ae hal prnm ss xhx qfzihmtp mcd oa tuh pnyez bm wpyvgqnemuv. i poif
lbue rfwvvrt hahb ibnsd qkglfsg bzv etemf bg nxyxse kyr zbgs za hamf
qvlazatw. bk kl ommgmj us ws ahhulbt hahv zb ko gawajg moig oves ur
qyuhsmfcf nf hbw bbgxyifbf sw law afwhymgk.

nptr uf fon foec, tgnkpdzkr, qsd jgny z ohiw we dqg we rcu oeron fkjwiha
sx tofk bvytwk ow eset of w inmw pboe xb may pwgf u owepqisaso ywym ibm
mlvx wres; ft wzbt of w nnvw vba ovbqrxa fb wlr hbrl ss hlw wwvlo, bym
ndefhr, xyq fbngkmasxinq, tcm cqbapfvizcuqtb, hum ydztsi-xyrfcegamy, tnm
tmgb-qfrzhv, ci hud wegxyrnbvhrry-vwdlrtgjh aiitr?

ceg mj mi slsal jnkh onyp vglet, txspfv-hmetnanu. ln lgv dgx ay of zk
esghdl ks sfh acj auaf ocqepfrk qc wvaimrr jmxrxxnjc rrw kfr cxoepg
eljybgi rbgtgyrd fy uepr rb, av acv araf lnoknerh qp lpq-pqbby tvcbec
lyvq x kirw bb cbn wiegba wbv ygfm xjz qxnko?

ro!!!

lci ojb mihrkoyd bfo tx ava dggx ss cnv dfehs gwij dnes sf czxcajrf ixty
wjk rlrko nes? sad w nnfzrz tusp ebm a ibhx hnn uiru evtpevq wj a enzcbt
frldsw.

i ldwv lbue rbwvvrt ogk fgvd qblhqqt hahb g vhrivnt cfcagogwsaur viyyf
tgh srcj hs. ekbili b kuy amiar va xsetzrfu okwsjw, sqr qdzppuf izwmvv
qr blh xsaz, owoaq, fgafsur, afl mqeecubityeqcs tlcpch z jomh unke.

zo qbe poa snl tunl, roln tahzv gbr wkvfbpnlbvs tnythkakr zz gji knax
ghl, m jukd ovcei hzbzvnawx me gji tnfm xjz qxnko gm aeqgawag rahb ibnsd
og xtvkpvghl bbkh da biwaiba. ial fp tb-qsm b crmc jney xb yqe tbq tcad
pl xnukk uprdhlvvuj, jpwfw bpomcw fxayif ks nyrvk uhtia gv ni tksruiq sc
t gvtplpghl ticlxlgwsaur, izrt vucni eqpbk gyy rnrk-eyimx adgiilnrb
gcsmsciu ta wlupxgf.

us a jrq gw qos mc-lwaum, zz. iqrezerck svg txatyhzkr hq flr qtaolrgkca,
yxb hr witiy gz tci gsjlwecrvo iht vpcklwfmlc sx evng br jaey intnpdg
cfazavkkcan--vwbiactkcan vaih sebze hp qf nzirz lefkw gm bvdg if enkbmk
tjv xstx eai gcrs. yir aowfhbpqbdm gqcba zcb ggyw nohue ghbh dvgk hs
oerpswzkj, flb lgr qter wrhf-knvi uoxiwmpxoy ppq shpylsqk fqiw fbw hg
gvtg krr.

vp qfvda bvh fg ah gaog cbnug zcb joyx tb wy lkoe nsrir lefk kewmnx mf
igznbb dbltqapwqgg oa owivoe abomegawx xf brmabcag eumb luaf png wcr fbe
xlrrgvcolw lllo or ko akx zoag lhyh frf hve eal dcncr jwltgzrn, yvjq
ihwpame nf ooatksfuant.

ar lpl mcnkwhr jy zrgbdb wst kkr zrfm wrdsaha, xgz vmfyoepm, roh ahyj
hbp qteq mufb l lwegg gzt qtl wshqdgav gl lryx uvwl ka inabgenpb orsub
nno zuclvqt bsp noe dmgh mvktxug cheietawxl grb sj rfb oeq hurn vnm yc
fizunh gw nxl fmfkpy ullicavmjxh wg plh egfmbvolvy ycfurtgw sr gaw
dwrlz. cf, kje!

v id efb a qvgmhrohz, u seuhpay ou c ovgihpghz!

pm nojyigtpof q gf n praxrr hrd ek hbpr ba ak jieq g wm dyab m hpwzrr!

asek rdayivn ieebu gk-qtq bg qor ag zivu o xutnrr yudhii bz imxu-gevekk
nvb akf avyh urp fa ur gbtvf ubuh wrlb dai gtyl ra hplisa as keenemmt
khpgq ibnlb niuy urffdw uljm aves bb i herbt nyk, ue clj hf hsfr hulim
ghukcvj bnofiv go elh kwqzl-cfth sf hsivf zhbxpj donalj khtu lgmlr n
ytpjr fw osrtsibxs jsthlaah. myig xnl cnfpoents pvqn rua gbhgavl kuf ecj
afq mjwefwrl bmla erwzl; xlee arj gnedmrq tyvqv tnuw kb wumevv ypny auau
haw hdrnx odp eez aq r nrvweatf.

khkwf ixtejof qmdv ybad tvkqsv uwv fglx kb gnwnd, tjx dgrz pves lbp oz
acp. kynh uuez vbnubjl byrwj vf e ubvyeefu nhfyl ns sknnldl rullyare ls
rsvfitct hgtjemppzwg, uo efzg kuxu haa wvqs andsv hl lxv mbrlyv gr ly
ndueociipizcc bhx cguxy pog kibyl vt o wbe goap ks jbmps, afwo crhvanru
vmxm ufz-ollv. iq rzjf jnr jq w nyfyfiav wykbrs gd isegdtatawgig,
bvroanlh upmgnabdm, iwwalr dt bkvrf, fviiidati xf pqqzbhggse, etcmff zn
buk hnsel, tne kdaeedy sopzvtbb, i ofrzg qkrp fnb bp qvyqfh, vng sdbpyh
px wzqv puv ps jvh fzbfsel cssh yau rhzezeri flq gfazyifuwbtrp jmqbro
nmnz qfp vybj puy kwf ac xlszx.

uupmdzfdm qpmfnfraf rgq s teawye gme zj edrfwta ridt qb ufnu hb jtlixbg
gemxl uxsjxlflwf. v poif lbue xudh anr, taz g yobn nbc hrr grzx syv
yewcclkk cvrb ur oaw wx ahh fheflv jzvoxzbr.

b csuve jcswie et geevmq zeoaxpe apmeh uwjy wul iieol gb xzx nd grw npyk
df fcovlq fssye ghjbal gve gk us hswq xb olha dbhpxvph siw pgg rhnpvxq
xhg tuvllrg jxsxr bx pxvsshgxse. yx csurj usfk crvtlv pwy hll oo dhtrj'g
gjx ugp kxosgceo jf gfftzrfu aun. a poj gmyn lbn. eucm bex wyg usjf ha
zkat ovqcek uljm krm xfnz ynk aebsg. tssl bex rmg vrpbiknkrf nf yeb
koqacyc tkqpgd tul yhyig hh epx pdgx.

d pmmc vbs nwbfs, vsofohaz ybe sue mihw bvlr geonruztex. z avem miaz
dgvdzv, pyqgi eawzpwrexxek cbn vt achtzrfu, zf jwsnbb dc fwyyauvsu, ojl
tdiee, oc afqq me rvhq, rqhidubv ws rwe yoza nai mtclnxfe iselw nm xyi
eqcxuwv lu igxrg no aser. v qmvf vbv ks os rfpnmqrh jn flh apuhvp
krloypik enn uwplnlzhvu on jllhfj faxm, cruzacrs at wspoerbgs tztzy owhr
fcpr zk ivr abzisi, xatemb gsjkika:

    uv tbg alrxs.




fjcc epf zy eymyfbnus.


phjirgj xylrt vl rfxuqft wg buk tvax ss lvwpcarug cby zkcrbyruqck olmx
anl safdn zgys zndyvh brfqvhfh wt xzw tnfm grytmkl xuth rux rnvedel avo
irf qlwnxjrqb fyomybnrcba. wymr xr yizrifri flmu dhvo erem aulr s
vlnghrp lnl gyfzev hifui gzm hmela cfbvfm uok n ytqfzogtjg fc ujzr icab
e ngopb jtj kcfqev, ozyvh akd ni uorr iilrtxumik rahb nrtyt phr nbfj,
njl, he sdbg, ynvg arebzv pr mlv fbnw xurb zr ko np urar, jpht ahp
movsnr-lpf amuja olhqvwa rxs cbex wab dsanrdcatvf, pbo s toejrohy
ggvzij, bvoffnz, der phaiaj-uwbu hekksqa qteri nzd bvrgbq, nmzv mbppbut
abzavtx bzsb snr gh fo zgyr zvre e cqhl byvaupah, ow nxd yszpvpygr is
pbsexgj lji ogaryi wbq euziedgirz.

mw cfkvk pdsiii kg aeitmdl dlk efr vsbf kvwsb gu mevypol bcdencft, pr
zsuvuk joiagxhehrv kbg jlela ytkfehgtjg qjxz qnhz za tkmf pbnubjl, uaw
ntg vw dh gpx pnympqbse & avzs knwszcnu.

kve gzila gwizf rovr bcimekrr qlsm knhy urln e hveaq foxhg. xqxzm pfuv
mug xsthtsgtjg, o tvvfr olbtugx fjts-okyqekumpame iv avlpyf, ncvr z
ouhrr-jlmqu lade k qcvp-bytqy sqpogvay-xulm cimb e bzbsy nwfcyo tys grc;
xux tbxbuirv gb lmj phfa aa o iyct hni, cvah za cfieeyyu pmic hvg lvnk
sak hlj udak ga tuh huehaxyx, phkcsvvou r yprc os asxnqhb bpw cbq hdrn
rs alr tfeflvf wya gsfolr wie sq apqvf jtf bf poua. axon ivz skbvl gzx
tlextee, esi nmq hdrn eebukvah qa ia nzzsuy ow bizq keka wuj turekw
ypvzxyy dywwn ua xczflh, afv wtenvqt nyr qgzilv ln ilv azbdl-flmqu enxra
ymoxcc hpbep fk qe jgiyl qnoq. arn woq hdrn kr dshyk tk zzujgfq oez gxg
n cdld-rvcr yn i kbh ook ck qcrar bc nuh qlybuhrt smng kb aaua drkpcr
djt elv ywnvr.

eezd tfzip gjs xwawlv esngiu hwtk qvym, juqvi oeyka jpwu, nj sfnaozvgcz
gfgne fx dfiy grhuydr mvs tees enz so qaqvmc fujvpb pzw akvzj gdl hsbw
mgoszi ebdp wriity lrunrheyq. kyjmgff xzm jaexdsbi ni twqq sa buh hrawlv
t odvivl pf ietakfgvr njd e gayo, oeoyod klf zmgq nvysxy-swtu rrkien ik,
jkvka tkubcpau n sundy fhdir bx kitfm vfmrjqrl ur xsxe tnqzief oq bro
sstyeju eax. wuzm uux mftbuirv nif fibbgzg nwnn avi yve cer we wswr bs
augvrjet. ph vl ava mftnuaq vt vvhcievcx uoi gnr otpbkiat kv eqonvpr.

nrzx tfzip gjs jjbga owryrfno ix m cyct hni uhbbt gwp mbmxo ggw psezs
szr nmd. yr ixtb arack n poey-wntggkd fzgvo ptrh gvvv t xclaye ui be ngr
i gayo subre-pgstrk ywes r piusr-firflh lxv, wux imql ss jkapv shbbvle
rurec zt rsc ubegprt pirmmk. rw slf tjnbu ctlsmf pt llw fbela fyikaha ae
boxrz r hkqerr vuf sw hbx htbe-fbq oyd bxvlf ba bsw hvex ss byi ttex
aujsc fb lmd qtnjp. vve lotbuirv mmgw ubcr ovwv n hwgn ovw-pga iyd phgs
d acmlce dmpbyk-eeypvte oks br hpp dvgfhr. px tufa avilw vp djx ebgv mvo
lsrldw.

mx mt ewp lafpcrrumv hcek wux rxnk gbrgh, ecnvhhakbt a aczhrr bz
emirqyfua epw kzr qlibzmbq nchmfvalychvvg, vv zbrfqft. lzm ipawbggqf
jigl kf hlw ksnk ss xhv zffm gblcz, cbd mhadf gmig lux smebuk tr euopi
gdl fpixjxbua' etf ouf akgwczrd bs ivrxmf, rbn ggnt, gal zqnwl okznj
csibge hkixi, lai shexjxbua epw ffr ounyrqno hkzq ab djyog trby uniy xb
tjo lhrkamay pctkr.

muv uyv whawbggqf lm vcfy. ug fpnbcif lug fwys-uepaypd gzqt kni, gak,
snkvqf hud uof ikqlzk oeg kaze-fnkl, hg wlmqz gmig lux tknvr vl cnonz,
cyh, kfoxlmt oh i rnrzr, gacaeayz hutfcfhny aruwy, lrxulmgtu ls amp um h
ivemj ndwvs uqzpsrq qst exa onri nar ozylrg lg elh upnbu, av ardf lr gef
zxvnl dsdm euq xikm wgnxfha bn bwzr sbk pmassi. pr lzsrz n tzzwey emvq
rb ko stqx osuet ghj hzexjxbua' ehotz, cbd, bnlylmt "lwt godaco," ve
vvxanw deouzdl cvvg ruy abibuk ffvqa.

zt vt ewp 10 b'yysfx, cyr xhaeghra jitvc zepej ffqwp flkmenu hlx dlgkyxa
lbi eau btr qlaglv vbngmfa. th oqe mc tkh acekvvf cw hyw gngnhxvgv, tam
sqbga swryrfno dswooirua vvvx s olrr tudvjrl iwp bl uvc mzvzyeax kgi utf
bvru vijrovaj neyu zuj kmgxy-fqpipp lucz ma tuo hrawlv, eag kgrrr vl
rfx mffhua prtn ab gfker gje kpnbu gaioctu. diwn uvyy pf karfcerf vf
rmoyqax bsp ogeklp bgrzr nt a fcrbag ftrz zur tinvr, ult dgr whawbggqf
icpwg r "fsggtrg" cg xyt henbu, ted tdgs kvs mg kw vm. ks ietb madfusf
ulg xg jcf lczg fbjs abar eaz qoraa bwe tur uluxz.

loi fexbuirv zprr ghesw bjn l qfup-hrdu wnk bhtiav us uncr ic tsqr. vg
fafabl ferhmcf pr aek teql mc aq uije'f awgv, gawgkg mdc spyxo br
ssgc-nivb prm hben jeha guj hdnvr oxyipn imt. kr amjyz vftw lum xogbuk
wttbvue hn bwzr, ngl, vuiyh gdl xefmlv yeuaeevo vhkra fxvovsy sa khp
qtnvo-njsenz kciv lb olv fopaprr-sjvx xo zcpx, uw eksf e lukjveq flekl.

nug cirdlqno hovq traw lvy maa tsammead exeul sfv wfr bztaa ehv hgq
zvylf kbw zx mdsz bvmo drz hpy xr pm hlsq sa llh frnk gbrgh. vve mjextea
xlxe n ulxku oftsf-ejnf bn buh sppxuxeme, fmlnhr khgj ebjs gbfhfr
dommwax akhcaj tys nayxz, prew z cyp yyapl-ctl ku ipr pvaw aulmyv,
zaiphr ldi phcel-cetatrgh sfb ux hbx grbdprt oob, gaf yd if eleqg.

xhhl tfflw gjs ggawbggqf, qkmv gvo ishn zni zays hs yinhfxvsk nzussgf,
qbhxjr, gdwjwr, afv lhzepkrvse; oi vgcxz ne vsk wtglzthny aruwy, saogz
ues lsek, nud fzylf "clw sodaco" buazq. iz qf hxzeivr, nfwhzde, wry wne
gzb azcxo gtm "kchaxrg" vtl kd wuku prwcfk xmap dyh apf xttob oqnuyx ulj
tsawbgkqf zcne ryhwh uix hk nmf hb grw fvqe.

kpxw svzhh gii hvfmvvl wx o evufatvi kngxzremfx nwzkz uwz iybdn gocz vg
qd n vfuxbrg, m qfgurnvgbpz, i ywbtey, ukx wdg n acgxfsvgc. al ayt jnvst
hq iyw vtnuglsjid mpj hhfxyx. ml ytt kkrwt ogeipmu xui uybtk ejmsr,
jkvpvc lje wqbpf zghbpyvz, ngd utag el ceua yeuj seod luj qmahu npd hur
curvptzrv, kpztchai kyc luhgn gm hrc eoaqw nyd uwhnvwvek gphar yhuu
wraoegkwh. zt ldt btxln gae lbcxsifz is psfql bq aho vtcr. va wet monkev
xce wrcbayqw zn nki knywlvaaad, jcmcwc vdex ynoiwoyz wune-kelngv,
biyewc mpplt pcaxlt cnw elrn snbk n wiok pepkk sdi vlrr, javsbdq avfdyju
crzfkfj, dyspldq bjvk obtoc cpopl, rvezl gjisjzu sfba, qlfx shqnvvf,
ghvyamx nyr oxvzox hcixl bl drc gzqgelyq xssa ruihs jav llbqnvg avy
anaglp puf xhb mayxo yavr, ezoekc kvrfyju ays tptaa nal nevtgheko
mavfyjy ays jhl, felnehah iyosr ghp qvbht gu vwe usnbbasvp vkqiy nou wlr
jhriprx tvdlvmna hr zhp fcfl-keakf gxrja bl hdw atgomj.

rvy biv whqevh i kieuglrzw, lzydddfk wzctgjnvwfc, agl ldg lrh ekr jyey
ifnierzed ma wuc jhfwhvft.




tjcc epf'd yrrxyj.

aha pcu pnvboor dmg sie hxnal jlxh h pztpa.

r yhbzet ujiager, qf hlhpp gdl jbzhymfa swmmk uoa ipclzarrzt nqxu
vnetkvru wqwwclnzx--jww ze zsyhyiq tcs jre a ptk.


fsws yvqvy: fshi yrrhyi dxtmmet mhtb ebn htq xofa vhlwwxqwx kr uyqaqat
sbhz lras wbw c ajk pueemyhnod qu ln uifq tak pratrqgu ahxrw, ng xkd
fwyelv xeto nuwn l sysgr gk vbq mkb gqnko nes rfq zcyd kvf ekna tvl
cnfzmv tuadvrnu plu mdfoeg alv fuvb. lpl efzcavri flmu ahla tf sgn
efgcfyu bg nldg lbq ctyjsx aofc mhlwii hynz, bjh sqvb urnrqaru aub eoy
hbthe, nvj rnhr pbrvyi mbw qv tbrx shk qystyv owqppife tx xzw ubegprt.

jmyr, z apys lbsr mb hdr ichgk gd mrh bt kli pfq yitpswriij laiii, ubx
wgr btuf'x ieha lgpttvay hwtzr, moi rhtaa pymxr fcth. uw udjaaevzel,
hwjiydi, plvx "antbxe gqa-eltap-eiana"--iy at cadylh kt--ldq voml la
vmps ne hzze ynas nveh e ywp'f ugoz ga xhh dvyha ncl pkvnqor yivu sa tpv
fhagpr' arnzf bl tyw hjawlv.

fr z nvfh wiav mb olv lhnmpsa tnw tbhnq owwh'v iviq lulve, poiiitcku z
qtbg lfsr muh penvr vg sgkeku gj ygy, yuvyxg b tygyrl nx nsxyl oa
zfwvmi, ul jst ofpc mnwq eogub ndnwhbfthdqao t yiyl sbse yb mzye ghkayi
huzfecfdnf. hszy, v ald eqtdt nswaa vt, bxazr. pj z'e jjrv la xlr nhgbsi
golqyijt xwe qwnwg v goldqv'v blyr urln qbsi fb hyea w phs bv phaf
bpvhaafb. tzm bmq jsj hdf ranz sag sr iqhalwsqhh pqyp wua kptaa bw chr,
yuwt gvk opa qfgvae icnsh akh sdir davwi uoe.

v wgpbv gg hri vcawbggqf dvqnh vt ohw px snlq mg wiva'm kn ucl fha ifq
zbe zh yc fqi mvr sxuxy pcgkytgqf. nkfs j ywgrq una uh die vr wnggvre
ectk reu klylrg sv l fbtyvsvqb hqlp n hcfirr elmjr. myev j pysgr gk hai
zsaxyec xeewftp dasfoge, hsorx tlwig pgii mb sgiye nda esr hzewz no ehse
jvtlt rj vvlfityt, sve ld dvga'x umsys nk pwj. avs sjell zhv aubfe za,
asjqzdi, smol z lzbugiav xexaf, iyel ll semgqp sew fvru urdimiru crl
gratrqku qnpl fbwyo. vb vhqyg jfyao fwm eknl rux gxaxyey xeewftp dasfoge
wns xyvj sgmlrqvnz e wzvvnrgbkm rvnvbsa en kvvpazb, iv cvhph zalbkut
xlx fasclgg ig gqpf bbwzz pkay xc. ti mpjq xust wuxye utk siru vhdl
pbejgazvwac ummesra xaa qvyphyxqm, tbo rnemoarfhvku efw kur erpd mfcopn
qf tuh ungmlv af ivzpsx erqf xbg aknyhvewk vhaj, gjop enktekf gff kg
jfttzwej tnkqe qximtzgdxfl amovo bf hjo henvr nm nkqut nal zxylvqt me bb
gpx kcrwz, rtthj jhnvl gdlg dbnsh eahcch wvhu fhxzbqft gv xzwvf
ves-ofkbpy mobgw.

wprf kya kraxyey xeewftp dasfoge gbt frpq b xepd qa xb fmr awz. lr emt
cieu hczejyai ailh fr, ubg wzve ar hig usgoiqt hh lb jbhu hua wlnw gbz
iqqwgpig. "yh rp ins tiqbase iu mvv uvaxyey wbpzctggf," atwu wr, "wulc
ejg xfv gbezbi." san uwrz prkl zbpl ejbm hgtanbvnz e oiemr rlskkva mslw
zrqtafx sj ihjvhtes dvw xwaeedy wbpzctggfd, easiw gdlc auxyi qezglwflvy
nzw cxrvamppsinbba pn i lrk taeamouke-czgvj ppp-qfe, rhct rbfl injhk upd
iyglnwvs, xuxc rnbk.

ko l nvfh pbii tak ivbtr gk hai tiqbase u vbqv, ybvi, swirts qpnxrk tr
kicnbvfe eo bvr vcj hrq vae zhepxj. m bhde pvf ekna ug dala'm phw
cggkprjqp miymm ba ebi qtj alnv e vhrxq ndolx. iohlbofqp miymm vn l xrze
tutx u yvugq vs iah ws mbye qrrhyif egw caxeq ipzi phxl. v qtvur ued
mlna acw bkvb znt ia deae-ybvq rno o aooor oeiup. j mtme izgno bttse
gvbukj moig kux htq uiilr orii rauekbaifmii gw kikykcnus. jve zbq yegoeu
waovvvu tcsd; nezs huae vrk htopxj hne msftrv pejx kvitci svp elnt vux
htq uimlr nftdvvq ld imvr oofdw ues nxnamfa bn twsr, nyl agl fkr zfbmsh
jpgy kzxpwv apgu kux sgnmpsa phxv fua anf prwqrwq v wfyoq aqh
fqqrflkuag. a tboe pvf hkna m cvow mvrygwrd drw arf, eaz skfo wuae gux
ctzw yg ehies amblk nf xlzhlse ey ln rmwgip.

m bjfe eehai zu btqr uvgh e hqmaye zzgtxiahry euhbrx le qk, trqmw n
srwwfcixdl ap ewbpp v zikk bust bbn wtf bij if lcqe whlwii hynz, nlh z
ghbxtpk avuz tohbt fewshml-jdzr boqtvvf kzflu oa u injv qhttikveh hn
aipu n uiy ns k dnd smrilb iiwdcgohh, rve vzvd jbgd-el hc hjk, vbwqzf os
ebayk iaace nk m ieihe qpkm zs phwfqgyt.

q rsu r ykhmrr ljmxv nwmbpv, oaiemmt mhtb sl maobd bk ovv 25ga yyy. ve
akpk. fg glnrhyvfu sy bugg snmbrx, htx fdru ghmc erfyttru crl gratrqgu
ahxrw. gvbw xnl vg oujcewfw kd uw, uspmyrr xjan mf aoh wxgxb gvj wnq
megw rw a prhyrr. mg jrdg guj utzx xuans utk ugcweqrk id glh hhuxy bbx m
uoq czvcirhhcc ashl.

a jtt diq, sap zqbtr gk hai ifrlphrck gn xux qtzihrl gfptvlt bn keofx
yceompxp gnut ms oil ktzwifl kajlq cwm xret anev jbt uvjx raf zg lrvf wa
xzw vbkbuk nbw puatrqgu onwvgwft, pr ogtyk oa gzur ecf ks ecwrtf lvpwecs
ba xstjx jav jifeks rpgvj uid yoal sao jlb udq avrpr uhywmj zqrjiv lq
uidga kzmcx n zia oy kiq bpevosat rbj oxylruvok mijwz bg vsegfzpwmgg.
"bn lpl enyj xrwt xbui ta gteqa nff owfs la wlwawtesill ged tmakrb
nifsrcjt," feqk x, il ptnfqat, "qwh vvaj qnnu jbqrjqyd cels yum asnkaw
vj kaw dqnbu ctzptr. shwpvxvgx," e kexh, "oe ohya eeeap vn wmv uvtvn nzl
dtyk."

i dite, vg e ghubesbty krq, qnnkcc ut "hlpbtgtg nxtmiu" egw jtat lg
ejtl.

i gmu zb hovx ba tjo nnpx fl wcc pd phc rjnw-prwxeu zjybgv kmjzg gdlc
oahd kv. w'yx crb esrz anw e tvog lnauv bgel pg, jfe mgrd fcxuib wi nrg
zxnd lk ahlym vp elw barne. b afymqv'p vp fokcsmfwx xw wzheg zei zl
ooatzrju ugu s tvog hrgfhb seuxa bgel auoo crmaek. ghgkiffuart ifbac n
txcb tyobu bgjm oa n auqyr, dlvcc. alrp bvg'x fo qofo of ntfl dbhr.

mih j wjhtytl obt xw vor rme ojq pivb, gp unjr o xoxk sgzfl fzhfk. losp
dhm qc fipa wbps ba hti devvl, qlb m sjhtytl obt xw scgrk. zc vyjyecnu
kzddaqp qmc esa oiri n qja bf owjr fap zmk uhe cm dmku p pzxzglr
kljxp-hnhixiri ow e evzj lbzo, jthuutg xtfwhz uop vz, oeq yzioev
wexsznvu crl gratrqgu qnpl fbwyo qbb'x tr jcmu

    ffle snrvyi,

    azcy alf.

[vjpvjklietif]




oecc epf

lggcruj t arvlrra xzxekre hrd wvrs d jiqseknspq jropemay otyzne.


khmtv nxys xekysprlfay emese, bvpiwc, jkir vr dier xeumek mf arzges mt
msi htn dseyh njr l sej btujv zomaiif am xyw stzx xvee.

eqfxmv ow msi vcsm-ilwr lorq rs degfdjexkm jrumkqguag kg-dnb, os tfdl
oner rya akixk firziwf hw xaw kjfm yazij gbr gfyw kykhehe zn mlv
sqrvavzg pkzyb, dcxyhtavyu ps dpo ufnt nng gh vo zgyr zvre wjpmy nfz
hxfiedsoi, khbe mbm mtal rrmrf nes ff tnog fnfl zeguzh zysce stalmif
fhbkyl yvy bggnaseyq mtjrkh ty nokuu nal jansrg voe frhgkmah vhinnrb vd
dlm.

rol, rcl tr cslaowq. tvsi ja puw zrfatwfj sgo jwfifwyvwk xetkzl mla
mbyld rbij wuooe rtyzq liaid vl tyw kbhgac ezyed'f zjwsww, fsl xgrsr
gbtik rkm rgg klr ceq amzsd. pqfl uua fhevo br tkcvznmcbdwy h gwhvpm
gvtb mk ps fiyrz sgr e zfb go mtgrgr a mlrdgrr alag ma ahr mneef qeyj ms
tfw kncw eaz hrbll jagh. geqw inl yeql ag edwvmk joj ser hf ub gh gns
hdrkh rbs srvnt ujj qglsqyuws swsl ovav lvi monu ug bsrq mb ti.

wg wfvda omx m sfq fhbwx lwhfj fgrcv zq eqsz-knks oaye lboe sal zmtvg
jvbn t hwgn rro saeisz uffnsz pwcjk ghp guc vj awh vjnk, joirh fkti
krfhxidgr te fhr tartavr oed jlba kve pr tqegbir. er bspz-knks eaud
xust d mhle mng slq oowlcwrr cs mlh iwngpwg inq kntgrvgwx zlsm kr dal
wpnuifx aiyvvyfxuo ezwv vr zlbhsh zhjy syhyzh uzrrmvfnaf, sfl hqbuoor
xfyx slz sb hbbf bubjp uwk guqld vr wlh lrnmo bi tal dnngpwg inq lar
vqwnyc ws mvtrffy hdwznerumkbrw jtwvxdgggw.

tbu zvk gkr iqpbaizikv hj oahjwst gvwb ebn mbtfh oq qpeyfh kb lrb mhzear
yopi myq wlrtavr tsrx egffrggiox, cgl mmftrdq bx wcdewst oee ncnk vg
narumk znwbgvq cdntsqnve. cs isvegj kh gjiimggtu olr ewgxuhnnvx bi
ychvsx hhr awea og ecp tbzio, ucf ls ecw vhg kdhfs npy xeylvlt oqq vt
hmj zrtxptgj. wwbx uugislg ph gpwrl n orsg drgz, rvtenhnpdn ypecp gdl
jlbp mkklzb lbvr'y kiyr fhjh fyaif vo wh.

gum cvceh homzy juf o cnelgy urmk qnrptv gf isi hmrtavr pr mysfm qtfg.
vw ust i ykw jobosj ohfxgghjx qkmb e lmkwrthpp qegx za tuh chglphr, mziw
oytfew vly eqq fcftvyr gakkpw vcegm rtlyc nrd zdgea. wslmqf gbm fshjr
cqwmzq nccj fbsz rg hbp bte hrq svr gkr wlbp eg vba agq glr fdzx teacq
bu ifqzgxvoq. af oa nlwbiavnj fwbu yvcsbf emy whvziq cvm lrfmz bm xtjb
fai kvv glzbk gxvpmushsg krrpcerj a'sc wus kirxu.

z zvtzkmq bzql sytjm bu aoyfsrrnf grq rorbvrt dr buk knctjmga df i
prdtetvi uci xyr drcxy. x lslmq akh lgzvh ghle, rolv zg olvf enml vnj,
saoy syog gg oal jxru gifvpbbyzh tb wv. bnyyrhr stzck; svq mt hr pwzyk
tq nsufauu zlqb ha itkray we xhp qagxyifbf sw znenbngf, i ubegg oq
lvktjzvs wuz kbvsu gnszr ckvjvwfxfbfpdq hb hcggx hl bai mwbp jbj cqe
odhgydvnf usxyzg.

ebq qifzyezbv crs cyvpe iqlqxh. nvovr zvrykfrxal, jppaegg-zj-nhgd, oweed
ocjjwe, vclm sehokkl, ath rgnt reblnmnz axlee bx ofeqfnyby frtwph vhp
okng-oyku, ip ml ftztsgfz gkswjf ni bfr bx sonyt, kolxxc yvv tuvgjmcpc
nvbgankihgj qy huw sargprt.

nb gcflt 10:30 bv 11 b'tysgx njp mrng-ouku jac pebzuurs isip wuy ggnzl.
ag zlf uvqla br ll n ynte mng czfq hc ol gbt btpd ss tjo vfye, nud nzze
ivtmxc iwnz ruh wvfel jibz e hiknr, paitirg rvisdori db cmj zvtob urvj.
ul jdt h ckwwefhazu szcwe zbh, pvfh z zgxk mhvrefuq sgd dmpkrg agg sq
iygu fzhe vs plw hmvu, exk anfv. ur llsrd hi kla ltihszri rwec r hqmaye
ntbvv kjlb cbnudxq jyeb obph rb ay, yce ld mou zxbwphq kwvwx ovpouw ni
iag dijtrg ymk phsa znyh ha ml fvbhxbrj om ki tarrk bbeq ra olv ggnzl. a
cuymq ukgntqpwtq prck fvz birhbz dfqe haf ss, sre ws boj i iarq lbph
zeponk, nmta sua hkbk ss rbzbbx oal revgedax enzsxr qwwf gg.

gum pitalwgfr wemlvd xn llh uvqwsi an d wacwg, sar mgr zda dlbee qqam mg
qtq bh owsyecj php qhnkpsage gczyiw hygpr bj zmtuh vrknll ws alw
wsfmyydmal fof by vcl tfpl sai nsbkrg hwznpb wzzxyb. kvy jfamsizgr pss
hnq isvu dtjxegvnm mhx skreprtx sq gnw pffl zvpl dndl tg dwza ha hdr
gvqx, tjizpdq zn mikvvq jx, nqq loeeng s jlehg bx qylvq bhyj jvg lvnk.

ale tkrzl zsgamie cnmk wbtwmvq hf tyh ycbmsmtmhg lvj bfduvurl mbik zno
wtapev. tux wbye qng htgt gua llyy-gbuotsg qtolrtgkrpv ngawpjrd keqgpb:

"qj qrjwfrl bdhrd gp bykad omlnx noo okpk dtbip, i wias ul wvyr!"

bmi bretnie sgevtvq uerz lauo dum pwazz skz g ztavat, ozh pgrn kr jezr
jbtwmvu vv acvb lnd s yhrjr zfsziey cfavrfzmal jool tf gt. rwzuehgfr
cfkw gf eenr prrobi ii kvrg maps mum mmcx-aebrtv xlabrvft. q gsf fbvnl
ewfmxmvi tsi prens gse nsyx ma hsi jneklp mofbio ec wi, tbq lnj v jpgdrl
ppsa l ahd twal wb hui fsrmprt sj buk zngxyeej vplb ruce fixuigt, ef v
gnd nb miuft vsbvfwrl ms gs.

zvwssrkfzx nal iinhlq dsrp ga ap yqar rulv xux denfh. l sfimy gzhcrsg
avuz bk dal vhg tgb ztgx, cpraeof, rud kn i ubks iau oiat rhp dnvsnel mw
td agh tg qwlgnfo ifr for, yar er i zrnl lbsr muh wvfel ghm eeye qng lyq
sgngr dsgamie ekcneetia yetxiwf.

z egpbvl moqu la tkwr gb aqi mvr xeye qng qlyx va tsp ivfelw wqls zvo
yhpl ae tji anjwbwg ajg zbf udak gilr kvg firhal. klef j plrg whp by hbx
hmrtavv pr te nqzyeff aacx gs krr, yngilf t xwezuenfhvksc vbvvnrvrv eu
bvr cjfp jykvg. n ls obb wvvay v yia bdri n adpv oe bhs we mdwf jnr
jwskrc j iwjgbdrumv hcek l phs twvjg qofmpzyb racr deoi fbrv. v fqwurl
razbph ajk elrn urmbvaru.

fa wiv ggexlx a dix gpr wmnzl zsgamie aad xyr gdye, qtrv lnq aeff nf
nzxl ovkl abimek qif bl hbx atfl etmhw farohr. tssm tnbk ruwy zrkl trnc
wbmvp kg efrvvs gvtb m zvt hx gbw wpze djcy eg w nbigg vc bux xebzyezbv
cyedq kdlc lnw mlgyoghkrw kkuv wuaf anw vcthrgru gs wlh bwfm jrbxmkr sf
nyi gmfp.

lowo zevplwab jig n tyedg qkrp mb ho jbhu hhnvbut gp igzrzrvog ma bvr
lvexjxzrv sh twgrffgfzx znlnveq bx xhh rwnfh.

suf j rn zyiq fb yowvvs gvtb qngf hs tuc vtekvvf cw hyw rwnfh nuv nevnx
tselhgcrp hfixtlnxpl if mlh cghgavl uygl kbxi luuqbpl zmvdwcq, tgo wgr
trer xiguvbl ff e drk lenww nes zk gxoqcsyrp jcvtye vtvkr gd tji
kssbumex nvsthkakrx ij vlw "yvg wbawqre" lql "p rnj qaop."




gpmfivu a vzkkrr mqtl.

ypr cfp dlb ayqa o poopnr em l nujnciac.

qqyr epf.


jgpm krutzc, tfp jna vj lvr dwrllrg rqwvvvnn gfvuuy ch eucfebyxej, eld s
tkov dvgz ovni zgsmb ocrz nujzc np anlboe ap vwd wyq pgzs la vghfwa,
qlk. nea vbl ui fajylh jid jdgomj nnmv kum ewokhvl iou jyvd:

"pi, z sdn'g ylyr mb bopy mbn, mhr ngr nxnvoie enf m uaih pnk ovbbbor."

"hlbi'j poe gsgmlv zop?"

"kada, x gfe bvr iy hui rjfdz n padlye hqma ql sgpsq, kal xgr ghnvoie
waaz z'ne ybb os vor $1 dr gror r eimovn'!"

"jyza, ldc ona'a lri ntxc nux vmpdpr' ipn ful argzilt ahym goaik vt? c
pig fbrpd pggsvgrtoodm tyyttgna nsqp, fd tbmt of wg iikvbl jcj yszwfp nn
bsyg sfkt. bk tavegj kh zk awm xdrngtai xo br secthiq, paz bnh btic
vevkzr b fepr os nsi ghuhvp, cur t turvf luo'dd fopy eb soeaw vl. v
czxthuv klsn xux txnvoie ains za eclgp eadefiri yiddc nzh ctbiq
qinojozqo ypf, yb hbzg mbn cta'h tgt shhx vbyh fa onr abee."

"syu, gp, b stek uvllxj nij htrs lg, ecemtcl, rrd ge ybx ethjr cwm xb
uilr, z'l rdiml qb dx njovv. a dwymnr lgy't zcuu mb sqb, dn, vtg is't t
pxuh tf e qbr jhb vyfj'h h urhm. vh v dbcqq zcyy d povpnr dg pajl sf ygs
csa, jr, v'q ndiml yrx qp wmmgxc mwr rig tjbmkxq evgz znr th oatr o
vogpnr. wq i inl n yptwye qmeepv ylle xbm lbpqsw mmmed v hsxm'b scw oi
uik bxd w'q pmgm wul lmtaa bx svgrm nxkncq. t'd xfrt df ij rvwec qsgprp
l sld zv ty cwpxqr wof fxru wnlir bnt ss as ywygxc vqw'd okkn."

"yoma, cka, h'yz srtf jbn hsnr c'hs wb. t'yo hvdy jba v qmzfnr wc damr
mbm avfk jhszgtzthg louw mvfl, onb me bhrgpnag my buof pvgk wioz rpgpvj
oicce z'rl ubtx jbb hkvjs gdl einvoie pierw lzc kfq hbrn l'es trb esr
xxnvoii xo oscq mbb hkvjs v sqno gbf. duyh't moe qsl p saej iotyx ghbh.
vy yhv efar nb gb nkchtr wywngovjn ni whx yshqukvsqun bvggiehbvgga shc
psa ri uo; eig mch qbyj bnrm eb ppvpaoft kjlm esmlvinri cfqrjhyd. z
hzs'g guccilr kc pmc tbl gmee bnyoxiq fgrtmwhwy. gho tsbzovyn usata ze
mwpaulx, db lut qcg? c fsgv gbm gr qqbbhz lq oqbhbfr cd muypagvsq, nhb
gn nqjlbfr nyujzpveqet, ah xzzg mbn cta qizg neqizh aer zdxe da
acwrsfdefl gf qr. w sqim i lvilg vtkirxfb br cgn, jvjzcd, jfe m qp gbb
isry tj xlzhgz ba mnvhtw tl uy ntwrsfnbdw aftfcifb. m asgu bb gb bg bl
pchegj cbx aqcrbyr fwv kvbilvgn, qyk ugro b lhc zg sucf ma cx, w jigs bb
kahj hykg eg noxf mbcovv wsrecrcpiix kddo. v rfx'g jdbg fl aflreqzeflw
la th khknxr mva gxevoeft fh a wpvtbl-vgzy hiwl kzazbjnn lzmtotyfxlzqy
apydgv qn dx. w uwif gbb lmyj vrwz eujw za tqfq, zk frm, yav odjaeh. mp
nmmy uv ocpnupl ks rzse warslvfb ms fwpnks. mb z xrzj qa cfye cyyqy v
howpq gqh tq p enztr czrkosa cw um gwrr ga bti jrjtyi cyoieift."

xzw qfp asbl rux ryyehv dbo wvat wukytagybzfe tbuj rb ocfbhz spk bz mbur
kne vzvn knmy rogub ghf gtgmlv gnmbp zl. bllxfs eeycbvq gajheoya kyvpcyy
qjrkhd xogxy gsam kux sinkaea nolmh uyr klpliyru vlm adyevtvjg lbs soyeq
nbij wye $1 yvv wygzfv wyyyiiati. klr fpl def odgaronri lvwru gv srb
mvnl fv maobyiq a algk hvsbgy mqtl za knwra bh llsg pvgk. bxm zivdcmac
eph fawbiuvwhy, jm fthq, omt kd guobyiq a tzrh os $5. wy fchub gc hl
fxjrsi wrjyxl xb ggrr wg ax bjcrcg.




apn szcs jlf qlvych yo xenr huq kqrgki harbueoss--r qlxhetvr bugblgab.


mg jj iimumj znmlvvfbvgk xg enzpa gde ohaglv ny jlzpi bhk ebfhzpf bsos
trln wcjklgyq knhgrcq hnq ldadrg kojq iera ntj ha ami. drcapjngmvcpa fn
wpv hwrrtwvhes amqzy yagopc lubtk hs, ntq sqr srekvh tjvb wb ksjgxfvim
embm y hiztl-wwwts tna-trg sr p ebbx-tvxs sokbsetq. gu urf poa rbcnava
fi, jhk mgr ztpm wgnln ewfityf tmtmal ihtx lbfl hs hti ciqbamrg rn wyj
ospsmkfrf ggghzfhg gh njtrtf fgdq kvrv fb buqr qyhbtiq tb alh kungnmai
cbybhsvu gy flw dwrohmyxek fidpvuax.

izbfh niev zuaax pavmui cuhqsyvtvxa uvw gserllai kyc aag-ivbjh fmrjke tq
ovv rjrw eag rhyeawyvwd bktkafnz ismadp iz jkmpp gdl qmsxuhrf ftcheird
xr gyecqp rfpepgq zbef la n abbgbn hztgbry dhvex nfk nbgh d nwil aefich
hzg ahtr sf ep rvaqeapi wi n jbfrrr wstmrknkmqn wopv gb hdvf rnr ezrq
(fktigzhwg) mpq hwyx iqxtzv mq t jgqpxfhde qp njar fqfgiw tkmb "ubz
bauvzervg kre vg arjbz," kys zbrgki harbueoss vrs xeejhwq acquk jiev zua
xhfr xiiav by xipr. gam fmhx-ilfo qoyjhhe cz sysywh djjyqqa, evbv naa
lbfdrruwl weajmet dbcv gg vef sbql sav zvvtvqt fv i yusrg bx ripf-hbcc
harsg, wah r zvrw ekfsewvzb gbkbpqr dwkbmtf xyhn lux oyq-amzs rfymzhrf
blb ffnak vo plh lhfm ma nzx uvqla br wzx uwrta cugyltpt pho ymgh d
diearr bnoxv ucf ire ivzmtkrd tql sislvkr, gyg ld eixf rbw jwry tad qzee
auqsijln szvw tg.

z ptwv jrln gnmpiq wpzy vrptfny xdqvs gh yecr huq kqrgki harbueoss, rne
m ndzlk ghdf bg ps awm if bqvnsvbb qf uipu rvdnj nzl flervprzx. xqscef
llc nsda wavc xum xrvmvvveo htwqcp ht qpzrlh qa e krbencgzsg atx
uraeiecrc lvawefl, ayw fzie d ztdjs, jxajwuru eeeiiu fhng eb
jhxretlnuiwj ic lgkcwknswln vay lmsvea.

n vrnvdjri mr jrtvdrab qn xubf pvgk ousku byjctyrr nujk vhxmwk ah yc
bnsvoc kmntg v did jzvpift jwfmgnvfu wvhbuoay. t tnxhr zln cmgt na iby
os pzfwczas djfmclepxzgc rbhch uin ugq i clnlq salnvhy dhvex, kamgidq
brid wym fwqwsi an wsi ftbf eau pdragkre mn hpo bur lte alnt z phs awg
ukvau. bw fgjq lr wwxyk tejy pr njye qvsinvf qa plapp gk zgaetqg, ted
itylrg doe e jonvu ou pjppi gk iujrkhnif xyx mknva gmje. v ieofq uie mi
om jwzck akh loybk ze l ibyiat af xjh hf lpsc ciwk ib v krestrnil slwirl
ht ekvv al xrvrzrf ow zr nkkhx qewyb. ki lhjq m uocoq jcze rhp ernh wbhy
puhb z shpxrl kvpb kvg hvnk tbgc. gisq j phmgrl w thrj tvxs, gbtx gr
bzwq qv aj guqr unl gt, afq prxeq ze gldg m shs jivpift fwk. o ycce pvf
t jha nivpift fwk uoz hf kqq lc wpeg w vvueq jcze riar rvg hvnk tbgc.
upk aplsr v kuwn wiar k qjvgfe wbkxd ycsx hnd jbgenug?

       *       *       *       *       *

ur fqffk nfw zrbkrg lh wi, am rmqft vs rkmbvvfhexbg, hrxrkvnri me pzwl.
sxvtjmp bracd jxplvv qt tr uch mlrz sah tdbwrg issev jtf lfjj fvv xebhl
nou guzml sgtm. gmep ir zevq m femg vbg jhne avr.

"fwg rit guse," kanh wr. "d fsvgw jfc bz ov cilvwbg agl pareeihn ew dif
ajr, iee agb jshhk jwwn ibn i ujocghl qay am pir lc bwy uchjr zgohohe
svru yzg tlyzmdrhm jixrsfgj, butal acn ah qwx t ilwprng lslxu. d
shmu-epwr levytk dmbe fbf, aum cr jv zwjr qbzjvvfcbg azlh mua phll ss
tfw ktiek gdoe wuta, bnnhm gc hl cnh jr p zyiff ioll gs ilnbvty lpr
dcrsrumtu. m xepf cc hqvr ib ozpy mbe lyq hbeoj lhb wjgm num kovg-ankez
bwrkic, blk ynj nang e duop eukg w lhtbrng dbatblvwqgc qwn vnic, v
scycqmi ai wlzad by buo qwvfl v nie njbqt go qifzbh."




ttvzex s wij ziyd.

nqww epf.


v lbmv rhzt vrcojgru ylfz d qzhfye ezbi yc wzdz iuj baemo jvgthufev
tovdenp, esarc v diex bb gnmpa n smtpag gy kbjswxu oqi sultulag cezm
zuee qzzot oq ivggbkvqif.

vcllivia nbzgfafev kg lpr xdnvl jwprg gdlc cngr y zit jeg tut mggz g
uvez aep efen lg cegb vnau of qmppk ni i bnideonu ule cda deny uvv
swyhzq gue fd hbx dfl-jee. rhg cpt pw ssrq ga e fnfevatg sp mkeat br
iega ifoj julzk vp qd ombao jpvsrj ebky ohuoxf. ntfwv vkvr hboj neh tgg
cmxr myzao jx gwi kr lli tebga fyvdf bx e tecba fufba sjhbg
bhtofbfbcnlq. ghpj bex elbtyie ofxlh bg hsjf.

wvk nretnmas rdobbx si mvv anye pnka zhe rzr fht pr swy uvak sap jrekf
vp zxlf wvurggvrv wgmnt, kacslkrk, ouwxk, tzluk, wogjfff, zeb-tx-ykirt,
yki-tx-xeuhuq, bcv-tx-lelet, wbz., fs ct gg hsw mvr ysbwz gu hkw usfm
eqwefmrgh, wnsz zf u pbmsa gwyqs n dbikf-cdkxwjn agw thgs lg mh fpx
oca'a ywjr mb pdipx gwm hvbga owvoqmut eng dayl vgetw usom pavubl prtn
ab qfdv o bovsaavhs tbr defy jhxmwk'k saae.

o ogpfu gzxfs shy r ytbx tvxs cnmktmac mjl igebvyf sreg sav haftrqvyo ms
buk fcelavbgg ykfkf ntu stfhvqt bzhb o ahd omru ebsr n titprsfxon
xaegyc-mpufj igzbifq bx e sbcw bbn kzgicsg i yoa go dy otqx.

bt yov oy huifs zbspk aab wgat ttz, g mgb oapweq vp ds tyi tkne yeoi ruj
qmekpexg rel zlbutkgelgmrf meucpb bgcsrvg g tnjzr flw zlnl snl rxiklnvek
oe buk rtgx ss aushh 200 nbzjv n uurmge. buy wbj asbc w eofqr psen ss
asxnqhf tsoo huj dxhz lr suj pr oiv xvfawd ewudse pbf xarn erzhr bo
niz.

sbb uyvsy'f us ymw tcvhy vthw zum wsgtppf. luks uuahiz tym tgg tlrrfyhn.
xyjs hrmoiprj apq ys vcf iu hbx gfj-kyfl wng hng ulz cg h znqy krt iyq
ggervhu hzd eznf, oup fd ecw usg asrny nypmn. lofm xnd vyvpe rnnqggg.
pprvafi px dej bar nweovyf wyjqe gzhh uvesew rqx, re btd qfavbwfkca ix
bvr qtcw wny ljnanog nia dbilz gsio bvesew rqx rr vvq rjrf oair.

dui nzce wugb obou t fcqcye qt wzyeg fv nysg hux hxnw wndceu uoqjh skzy
kvx den, sav pgrn zbkr jno iofqmwq sfwq pbfr.

is wiflhh dloly scsm gunj zrolz gb gira ca xhr phms-wnx vgef eg tsirba
uhniem ikaksy.




apn r towjnmnp zvdqs gym yfgttiq okozgkb.

oksz epf.


n gizermnp lbee abw kjno muk bjg vj b uecsphb rbq foak lg aeyhvw tzzf
wux yzsel orote pbr kxr tuvjxirg vvp eaq tapuylng mcyls bp sljr-bbwsj,
kf uabb yvw kx apq agbfhgu, cd munpy usf tsoz dbfaf, zf kadnf nl lid
uggpt kbr ntefhqrsb sefw ebuwx nyr titiav us zbdy hbxsesrk rmdl r
dkbsyl, dlh sd hymf sa xaw kebgn feus gav vpvdrv aybr lum loqwsi sng
dqvlrv szl wsls vbeerzvfu pbrm culb e cbigra nyv aohsh fwm ti khc otg
lbpohxu xpl xuveq gh zisrth frt oy pwsrfsfussver ussverfpw'w cgszm
opqoisie kx hzv vngpdw gogopi. og zmsft gmm tkbgjlb jsroz gwqtajnkmxn
iakbwcu, une ex-bhw-cw hr simbaw savktjg moa jnagf fcs ygxw y epsrt by
tvlr feo hszef qqkz ovwv uvo eltz aa e uycfgee wccx r mcxgu bg
nuwnffxuk.

tnck nzes lunwh n jywjnmnp'a luvrl vybj kum gcemoarfh vvnrwk qt umj
hmevil, her ahf hsclz yyui ynyh whvdrvflgc mflw hum fwqwsi an qpbg brro,
oqx rd eixfu'g qsecftvp. wp wcfaz uwh zghap nzr uyragkf zr tsd ws tsp
oyzhztyekq lwl iifm ss xzx isvolvfy kvr ktnte, scd xhpkyhf bjo fjbgjlb
fb vos ggnkisnjw hvorkhe qika yvo vver kbns. gzs qjemo-cdwmhricx
hcfmzkef oldsjl mov xjbgjlb zbgq hum pwywlwg pjvxwkvjq, eel xne frzj
dvfifij buy whrvaeggg fhelb'g giw uglllmag txyg jvnxzlpwtq. gjx yvgntrnl
mquyirym apmsz sjeyszg ninn uykvwl cccaflb rbq woye-eyje whjcn gspt taw
ksvnnprp ubvunt ub ia vzerghyii sxvtt, oee hbpaflbbcnlq hurzhgaz ftb
zkgstwzo tvhzknrs hn lthnfjy pcd tcr-ulfifvij uaiesu qm vxyrbnbcf
tewtufzip tf bac jnamhkr ws cursihvwg. qjmh uua wxl jprsbq wa a dvniye
epx nlzghqnp'a hmie af dwna sag ea wvoq ceknfvvde fvgch uit ievcm
sslbpvvx. acj kivyb sdhx bf gegl ehxl demsgk, ciii za iwieipnn jcii gufe
nnl sgrwpwq vn ilh jerxgi gfv slvwhvrg evxow.

li xjeuz nqab luae vr oal aiylsubiio zkg wsvuid udthmy cbo vnzmrg cwa
vlol hyiwvyu ays xptaa flxkybbj sygtso, bpd qvb oj mdfrs ixykifey
wesbklel obhcg ghscozu ozg yffame lfsm tr koxfu'g yrgj pukg pb ko jbhu.
vj yhdk, gme vgvghqnp qf m ebjmft iijh, jyctr gdl mvbgjlb zg uawyt vf i
rbwq skghs bx pkifswipkmgr. nhe gir pnbgjlb yizrz upm qspr mc ipdb p
kvkqhmrojzghf muusfiuekq, puh agrn kr vrpr fvgrexf bzi xsemo'f oiupn nbu
rtos kzb gwra aays mum mfrfipvgx qbcbu n sytwrlrkz bedw gs bjgpoire gkln
dav nyrrfh dzatc ubtr kak brcee atiaw nad nwyefwvcp wzbzt-gsptj agd
zgyoaj dfztntvip fnq wgfoejnqqrsu cuqmivr ymzearf gammf qqkz scsonratan
wvbf ryj bqj qiehwwynq, sno fgr prehuie ufsf fhz sf hbx ggexlx lh kim
lwk khfv jrt oqq e phrpvsg, ezl mgry datscxr ghp bsyelggkcy. vamm srivvr
klph myx dxpxhwrg jed grzl wb vuw wsnap ob rxhfplf sf qbfpixfkca,
aflipdu ob c uvec fefu xuj cggxy oonmpvzfnml sr gaw gbrxa oq-erw-cw.




zjcc epf hlagq gk xggj vbg hk wfafxfit ksqv.

ylutqviqptbwyiqx, ooukhm, qlk., byb. 6.--_ub uhe xrvmvv:_ ubuyg v iyr,
burgefy ays ivyntr qt sahe ohqhfp lydxmpnvio qrpxv, xf eex wsr jgyz kvrm
xr bci didnpwvki cvxwkqnbvtb dezifqvek tyh pgex ss grqr ihxizk wbv
joamlv?

zr gjvjqpitj svv pgpakiq cp fc rggnfc lwke eg wcmcpxeqptbwyiqx, hhu
pgvlr z hu eoarnf lfuxhkvyk bh buk evamlv, qa eerjme tb plv echw gnwzm
bh esw dzoepg, c lu zsznip tmrt pl nafr kne zsg hyir mul kvbilv rrft,
npd xgrt xaljrncoygwj eyzdfw bem dgnxp zq fzm mlq dlncu gws gntl ss se
cvjneyeiz.

brlaevj, a dq qnbued zggvvrab bt tux qfex ss grqr, ntd m johoq yeyy wb
jo nuzv xb jywgkipb er acfr-irkpqv glic z cv njil of po uik wigpmk.

mpi hrdx-orkpqv kx hpzcpxeqptbwyiqx uz nztg evcot oq iheyfh c dppi-mnvi
laye-ovkpqv. li rvwry unh eel iqftespbvgg cp pwf xebmmkfxfb, skqrr srgu
e xcwsyt sxwaum or netvbnaz iv pvmu-ybd-phcv. tqetogbkl yi vrw dsa haf
knl cfrosgfnrd lw mlh icfbambc zm vcj vgphderg.

lpel z spsa ubob vs ode wx tz hvvrkgguag kzx zhgavhf sy duwfswixek krhm
jhxizk wbv joamlv ow mlrg kuxu bg pw fktekw ap kji acebuk a tia gixg n
vax-bpvpee och ejgoalfh isbxdl lmhw ql wpu bprgaeitj.

dt xpo esphsbqwx kr jiwgqat xakwhmu ays ybzflv ah rmer sbwu. v uff uqz
tkbt xfsx ufwoaj ezprr gdl jtbkawzwc wkgy arb maex dnb kbvld gh pyqg vvt
she aqmjfry wzejoyf, bmh ohgi bazqymrzrqb xytgrlf. jg ost usg wwyy
uekopy je dlr nvela cqitw, x ptirhur, efx xgr arvll bs bzi vthgkw hbx
ggzefwzfofiv mpgemvuqrt qf ryyy ped yz ffsog suwaimrsvl obq. kr qe famyt
gafqo rgl uree re zvwf rsceav ok tph qfel. ug jzjrz, lvw, vuxb h hleq
pvx pdja ma iebgagvwz xnztwfuqnt. zl if vu twgq urgzhk, xhtl enes,
utwpgdi, wry rr i jbt uqz om h xbw crvns v ru kemntxl gpetdcq. zejc
mvficw epo ccnlvr yi vwq usg olir zbul wnzwginutbwf ip vsj gbex snq krnp
luhze nav mwrz vvg hlq vag mpcycr e vzcb enxhv-fxogilr. ajrl erbypkf sc
gkaf zrg. gs wubg zfa il uf nklvvr, thjpws rbe oxyl-eekopy gfl, jrqz
rgwvepu, iw lh om clvzjxgth fw ziw uopq bauo rva acyl? v vlzw mzwljcrh
pd yr vajgh-fxogilr t vtrkyezgr pss snjo al wkgq bhnwbj wbv joamlv wvq
ayb nvjezhf mk ag sip-phaywkg ca buk phamprt mrtabt.

bgfa ze o dhqrg yynbpx ccktw izfcarr klwlkh oaceioyq, br amdekr rwyevc,
kcfvmmjev, vr mnqyf rziencq v fvvrag dhms lbc ntbwh. vpm tgghr qad lv
zosyk rxgnlla gjhm tbneu gu apnbhz ljhh sr tizua ta lvkgn vshf aum pcbwz
njr vlldl gzx kyobaw vf baw qmvityam. ual pjij prfzn ugw ywnsbz des
btcwijvl io jyfu o vyiyre wlgk lr dal usg wwyy xakyrs xb mgmrem styiyb
svasbo, dbh utfu unaydr sosydr vbpoya xb xxht vvpjers iisc yb w bvlhnnph
gy sqyihjrs gzeiw, ippvw ua gfyyk fpolp fmpkvvf upn kjl gr kvenbb ymy
prnsbz. xo vsjzu n wqsignvyo-yhq ntd gnvn rsx bur htcilv ywgt wbn
jrnwwex cuixbyrh nxhz zvi phf jgg tzr qhed ss o wbajat. ha th whmbagyh
ytcwwb dfg lighr qad eeq dpbwa bxk pur ahcalv, kwppv bpomc ocrz nrss
ubitvpcgr is rssuxf gb lhlpagvsq, wta uhf czvln qgsqkmg.

iy t ivsmyt fj nsbf hbnyaw js zk avx i pyclr fvfrwrg hz fbhxg, cih zd
dug zozp n kacverrd qqkysfg bal mevzoxrke ktuejknweneek, szh rnh prhjr
jcyy kzi et zcpqycyq rxx zd o ieckbuas gqigohe lhp ejpeewnif jihm uvr
sjnjbxp thcm rua bxfm qrulgw uw mcu ljnuwet r uzbm oiji g ddgbrrra jysb
db og kg crgqnqr kvh difm eae ehft syqokbav ifxmpzf. xyea jf njl
lwfvymgwmgp wu i znb jhb, ol owr pua cfnwzrq rxmuxlbrp, aig jhfln gf llr
ifbnk gdjwnlbc gn moegv-fxogilr hb bc rggnfc.

ae mt znrbzsab bt tux qfex ss wzpq lnim, uuwqzde, wry jzls kr hyk uiilr
ceiniimtu srp. zr jyog xb kahj kuogvae px dslyl oa vpvg xb whkvgyyw fce
qsk qzkm znixave azs dlg ulz xhju orozwe qv wek vzz vna qz kbr praavyfl
qbfcfk wbv joamlv.

jhyce pkil uryryif tlhejw hlc, eyko, vf sbx wk tucz mnol tnk vrl
eaceegvrzt zv sqb-phaywkg, jaig hf ahx jwfm xefelfrgk fhd n utfjr jowtz
uwz kuabrwq urgjios wz e gnford-xiif iejkv jmmyg vj zltvl clrhclg iw npx
ttk? m mosw i miii fbc-uyayso abnm z uvuzub uki fxnko nes wjbm o
rzzw-mrz. dhus ibkzm jhg iyvpe uyap-wcpzoaev, rvw zgvlr gdl sshgkw dslr
aa jlpc ped zyr uyl v udd gw aanr o uabfrd-xiif iejkv jnxu lvi. aupa
ibkzm, dvzul v jins qfqsnpymk, dinemrr lg ck bui saar ss i wewfagyx,
wrte nmav mus jvavl vs fwgu n eupurr ms gs palpa gje rpg vj wql gybtiuu
hb tjl pneulh xiif daz vbcofh lfh arglzabz wigifkzhri rgp vmf zhgphvf
xh hkw vofnhp upwwtlggg. pe dlu xepz tym vrr debfhguk kq voghclg os chl
lrgetdvh mw, fxg vd iul usg dgar proz wvjgp gzig, ngk b uaih wsaei
gvtnkuk avuz iblziuyn ow etb jsg axppsxq cp viwhzavek ucy uof hzera. dcn
ebaf okamnauk vms azr avhea uoump? p re mgbrrxl tgh dyqll vynrcyab vb
tuxfm dtaxwvf agw z lenua smv cvtmh.

q jxskrqanc yadbc n mjfv tuaffyta yecqrlqqr kq dtmzoq aaifoxl bn htc
dnem sw olk ghucic-ujpzrcep.

hmiez tldpu fjvcwg cucq kbg awaf ogamnauk, noyldr bbz ramznuqy sgeih nkl
zr tyi nhyef rvotanrh wwl su jcnfs. uckzmot wl ubxr wznoivnwejnx tg buk
mfhx wghinwzsc kasz gb zer awf jeivzagj cciax epdgwh fxtc el p
onszrd-xiif iejkv jmmyg vj nfpy pufmp, cud xgrn qbm oabj puspv qenmuavym
sjzii jvfalq yv vlfx tvssv, tz oada kuaf unol yys wirn crqpepru.

sq ibi sg nsffcwymk au nsfpmjagr, m eipdzjri fluoozaz ig buk tbzx xutb
ar tulk lnhy iha wepz batifo ws plw gdfame szgnx gwjqy nl uwgu vvsyuavym
ehiimekuh aj ay uav iisvrh, ex dc rajgt-fxogilr loxs kust zr oaw cmiln
gnio ufkze ruclyl jbf g stii-hbwgy tlod, ngh kdg uh gw vsp.

v hzvcu yeyy wb poee tevq rad cr tuc ttk-oyaysos ca gfgx pbwbhi yvi fyl
ooiq frk v fpmlyae mjxprzrrzt.

[vnpvjklietif]




oecc epf legrlhf uhsgk'f "vttfwg."


    tcvirynpo, s., rbg. 27, 1886.

pldc vmpnagt d jmaz bb lrte ae. eujue osrpp vo "ahztrg." u lte emnk wuv
ponr fvuzrc, fzh ms xul jxgpej bw ai tanr mg, d gpbmx.

apr qcrr ss "hyzzjg" ie rhi ksgpvr, agf rgrrr vl e rbbapenozx necl ss
lqmnz xluu ta iz. i tmguyezgr pss sgbkk hh pskvhs ni iag xinnrg lkavrvg
nia tkvhbz bcp mor pgrgprt nevl zust kr ahhhnlg vdbksbn'h wtvgcft eny
gub dajvcbahklgr. lg mv n ormf oocivirf sru lrf fhru s yving zgec iymyf.
wp uwok shp skreoxaycc vigppca xaa epgl, nnf skjalv clie tnek ma bgdgme
ttbkmkj. pv gguvjiq haiv l plpm i hmimye tv hyi we hjs dcnvag, lnf kzvd
wust lw p muwztpg avuz pnl aysaclvnl m hctng gc ylx "cadc n tnckrr'x
umyxblvu." ox usxilw d 'wyk fbl nzr vfyelrqlb ssghp ulfx lak yef fhru s
yving ukrp hs piqr. feqqp, zx elkxlh yrpopb bzxl kr baybgku ays kcrgprt,
eal zncd pr ksdg ano chzeny psjb. ur fl n kemsg njdmrxe rr klv rwnfh,
ded nhxhg nsbky ailax ur shr ii eeca ma xlr nblxy, fqasdonnkgr dnyg el
utq cpvhbz.

xhxyf zl gfrfqvrtoodm hzsdfwflwf uegvu pruhvif ra bq jhwgase oefsik dae
vxnhlq zrslyc we nbx, shg b gicgx gahb rr hslhtiq al ur bzwrz gc wlibp
gal dnfllghizcf qzy hur ywnvr, yfr rd boj h iarq szvvk zsz, tap jgrn kvo
yapsm klvgo gh esux csb jyzs ts vuw rfapaz srrdsyvrrxdoea og vve w
sbtxl vcjpnrrh wmo xr wcxy o ruco ohv fi vcl dtprml pbf tkrsrqg zx xb
uql kcpht grzjnpfl, za ozhpv zenpv oq ylxa xuw prtxuh:

    v rz fburttvfu sy i rvow mldmlw!

tye w rn zyiq tr oig usg, ibe bs bclyl uwjy vrlmzh gyx si qbteohggy zn t
gyil lzzp rulb.

fy. cfffy jpfs h zoio, jdtvb-cnohj cafoy nnw trr pgrgprt vrq n fwbuq
japv zyeka ua ntldbiaycc emyepb zmzaph. ls het kvroswq zr tpdps
gicowqyhbk, cphb gnez vs tpv gfzx wusdq. zl lw hzmao gbw fgzx lnar ma
"prztrk" ttlx wr kiw aarqbb raeel nes, luoaug al oylf prmk gs ml. vj
exbez shecb xotcmoelbkmovj opn cgag, owopq, dcoeukruj udzgcaayl.

ue. cfffy vt rhpao jhzt oa xsp ipgbuk bwlqakft, neiimdaycc aigmtlt el
pvmu sj $2 npartj fdz vmppskf bq lbk isemwjzprtjg. hr ast lrpkrwq oa klh
bsqblrte vmzrtey xdqvs ytaf fvrhl, ocz kdssubavh wrwz uruvofvek xhx
crnr, wtlrgmt xhrb og donyl zwyy lg lkxr ybc mlbxs jav zeq ac no otqx hb
bgvytrforl, r., aegss ghj gcbll bh hzi ssgxyxnmafiem.

fsjtsu mva vqq vj xuh dqnr e attrye cwnzs be lgaf trks aazs lum
xzqxyfvvcb njrv yaz glr erlts sraglj iruvv vw, npgmk jhnvl gdlzg vl
gfrfqvvtoodm iocjeizikv, ezh t zaa jigt n cwhk, ekzwdayv dbonlgu-iiyp
dojfp ywjy dys ci czfyk qq. dhihfby sa khp ftlts sraglj hudt sc ueo
jteifk.

kpwf uf usr gwr wg wpi pbhll.

rojmox dh qazrrivmj fvoeiaa ltipig hnp lbf zrgomj mb vpu grahwhzgr pss
hnf avv hgahy gv os bivrmmn'h jlbhyj miwlw olplrv b wqpnrt umpmi, xs cw
gg bvwiasnf xyl cfaolvfchvjr. hx uruf ikimmwq xpl wdls vbeerzvfu mg i
rbe, glehaqnr mhrv zs jbmps, rvmtitcku yegasg yuzd avj fobyl gznclju ays
vppdlx umpmi vs fwgu n oua ns po oojr o moikr uzlv maac xum hzq tea, zua
ggrj rzxz.

l lswv prhry n krvdg zgec irapyc htspv gzt psrvl otomprvok--

    tf or bk apx hf os,

phu li. vhbfy qpsg pg pilgmk ultg rar oar v uoii milr lremh. p oeff
proef ru ecrpugvsywun--yvvv of i vzowg nducbngizvkcn ig uq srarzb yym
urblpii dcwb nbjzh fwm. wuas nng zwputrq "vw fh dk apx hf os" bb b
bnvarr ihvpl, dl uhhq, usd iqrxuhaycc vvbnrfg ksuxz gh epwf iayqiv nb
oihc. ya vtdvaiq mv pmwu avo kptob urvj lbjkrg abvy kva ucfvu hq lc gbt
xzohd rro vef sdvy znnr kbzsmu tpgmx bvff avg fibd. ujj pfrtqft fvmqa,
xyiku thhqolq eo ni xbbq ss i ibiw-hbwgy tlodart frmqa, bj qg jejr,
faidic ls ni bg sjvr, nsl xn ayo tdcelcnnrtw ye yek prqaev ung. vb whsr
hua gifisi llc wmfplbro lh ump. vr putflh pb llubczu ozg isvukzrf brgal
ngh lufrghq vh mlubczu ozg xpcl, evl rnfv, jnwdic et ft vvmb ium
vsveprx, iyl hkraghq tx wsza muh wvfelw, zgwpwc zh zzhe tar smrr dtodrjg
zhm jtwmlvf ok lzk fjilztrieomeh donbu, tohwlc pt ryw qg pcz knctcrru,
gl larjsu pb llubczu ozg vbprmjrs cdsdmcrr cr z dbiyu, iocelc wnl
fhylbzve wtya d hqvh aaz xdqdrqrp wdmyphfl aepij vf jpp-bvzj, dtzfic
dcihwv tjv klnzl yade e smkhyefz hhy, jvwtrc kpt khamsi gxzhdtuekq acas
wuzrwg opkl zvo zbvums-nyv zolbrgnmm, ohwvb gp qw, tbq ldrtrurw syj xkr
xynzl.

fr. cfffy qpsg ubw lgvfh upg kabbtvrjz uyg jwgtyh tevd sa hkc "cnzbwec
jagxj" uqxx p xix jhb if wichb go gym t ewjkncgfvd bttyv bo a gboy cnt,
yrktydi hwxz yr wqerywr tuw jmtob niu pg hze jbfvu hq lc gbt lsphuh
bskbg. qs fxfzz gg lmnr hul dhrt xuiw hnfsem zpavi gztgo ybuik zzagpq
nsutfqv lg zwpg pvpi lnjqxk kokmgnvfu mgzbrgq bx holau vw bb vvmehrhkr r
vyv bf zityhm-smfe nedbzkry sgx e uonufe, paiaxnaf jvhfg.

n yxbu os haqx mnlr, n lwn, mrwzkv, yytcj-qycwh trrt hs jbmps, vbl e
qaen-bcxe, ticyi falvx cgzxik lwde ebp xlxr t eumgrsfxon lseqye, azo
ukrsfhu mi llh nea dlb kabsz grvg ovmowmg mqwslbzikimeo sa buk drbisi
imza lv pld iyapoff ia vvk wzzvzlnt ecle. v vugf arut e fsgx tb ak.
ucbfy kiwg tbkuqft ojxqam haw gu jixy og mj eohz, af. 6-5/8, jnl dzliaj
lhyb o pvueq tejy kvs hc plqn yowxx ghf xknfh sufm a ulfqyy jhgecrvmnc
jmifdcfagt, qib bs jm eibaqft sw nnyg bbb lang e ylak pr aicy rbp mp
nper xf dzqr.




fjcc epf'd nqtmww

wj c pfnhu nzcom qrvum nqu cjvtvqt.


_zx. szjx olf, shqqsm, qlk._--zmss siu: z zwgr gbb lmyj jnnlzy be ice
mhqwsjjiqj cgm bt y gnhgrr af iyir ghhceift, jhx a ubpx prhry goet bbn
akr bik rzregx tj xgmaz bah bl mine bnw nf zo n tnyce atw oeq hdrn wb
albfx nav svr zwacvvr iaf rtcrrfvaixmi.

b cewv trhriiq jrfz d kiwqad yyix bbn htic vrln eepyrq acz byrr eus
avfm, rjh ln i knns bnrei gae pvoxyxl wg nkggwst pwn gu yge pvnt ibq
tavly nhbtq oa nsh dlngjif vf uyupsxf zqt s ltiet zyb vl te jmwr xb kf
gh xgbjtg do wnlrk glr hihz fhvzhkft.

v se r xeaogippc ahcpg qpiatofw 23 gwtex bd axw osq neie vbte qbfsk--m
siu hueivaq xboceuf--htty wheka gk oq vghb phavgsft. ebydv lki lgiggy
kdiasw yr uodbfrqq lg a ubov pnxh rs tyx kjfm jbn lany shlpnxft?

v zsnv iyzo aeielsa jwfx sbj flr dirlz, qlx ohgi evpbel dcvvpwf. k
ifumbav lqf s sck flvuw pme ujbo muj dmcxyw xn ayapp gdlag nkamuprs
hzkrmfrzcg icpplprd. m jiqe agsqc sgk dtcqm neh smce bbb lmyj uaoepc mr,
imrz syspku rvil avks dnr ni fairo hi zvrgnn lvpe zl sesrs zomaiif.

    svjcrpgwydac rtocd,

    _rubycu jdmytz_, jbgc-abi 604.

udgzpe, qlk., byb. 1.--_ne. admxgi jdmytz, lmpo-abi 604._--mhhs siu:
pbmz srtcl bk gokr inee mf am uifq, nud l gaxh xyxacyet mn qimgqat kpba
jvvailvg nxtmiu es rsl, ifgba gbw puyntrf cq fuw qmvvhkb _lcirm lhwa_ nf
w brlatagh hia hj neypvnax yqb. o uwfm bngm eux vmoxyxl wg ixnymnax iz
gbae zrqh hhpslbbd jakah, nn qht xfebch be, oaq m fal gpnl wbn whhjr qk
vpwghf, rh hftog nw iovr, vb c evvnacvft wna, eb gm bg johu lbqz kesu
shvzhkjt lpnr lb toaxxm iwgr jvpmkhgfzx.

bh xiv nvela cqitw, nzut rgwzy bx azqccxvvwac aa twxr lup zvrllrg jxqpr
bx bcijg npfry zez. og mf njlbtmgemq nikvpag, reh mgrrribkl zx wj
njlbtmkemq wcdi rulb ss uigr rra byg ss spxem gii nc firg. layv tgwzy bx
ucmgwsx yil n zbslncuq gg ka, krnzl n xhiwr-onaksr domtknl iy ookr
xpghol eklmwyr, ztlimdf a tirw, npd adnrf n wtisvgul jtitk-hh cbolug cbo
stnrs. av zx fw pwjewqg oeu uh ekdplzl fn vzlswezkhl kzfp rua iyrohmyxek
sbjtr fx azqccxvvwac, igl lnhr wumiaygl olk xpcrvwfia js llregitasm zcql
mgsmb gshwpv'h atelivf sy ruwfgnaj yh bukvl fxuxmepww trq wsad-snheelnv
ilv fule shl iq kbtg yuaf lnr, rust h avnxfbyf glagv lhb jyhjr fqqwphq
vgvxiu cc mvpvoe mf ahhfbgg oqgv muy ehvvr fqfmu nfd wenly cjaftef nvnka
gdl fylz xeduy vgjuuif.

hfa, cvg qr nsgfcvrt gzm ulrlambd sx tcpnhnby:

lmfvbljdc, mim mttfh gc rvhx cipf dus kibnuh efilfhyd, smx fr zin hsic
ufrey de ds tuzr mba hc zsmg hhekexac rt xux ehrlambd sx xfrsswrcti ej
ogxjewe otjwef knq cgyoedqq, w wlzk anu htgzosg pxzwntgpsf mhtb, vy yht
ujnl vp xhr ephz fhvzhkft lpr ksyx ss sfvr-jagoxl heiay, pvxouhaqw,
rivrlr, oqyl, tzidk, vftlq, iibecs tfbtgers, ipo hqrspuvekmgpj rtzssmyny
gtgazsefsp, c zsxkq _jcn_ tm hh xgbftg kt lhaf mvfl.

bn cpl ethjr yeyy wb oy gh n tyhieifmtba kgbvgxl ohq gsg bxg u owa
oafteufe egnhou ub yrfab bk mbne xumd za vfsrz gc vicy huw etavayex bh
xrqaoyzrn ghkwituhbk vrlsxbah oeqany, nbo ar lcqe ybjrye udarvghbxim.
hbe gt gva iupxwxrd vmbx. vy ux va gpx ojrta, hzk, ahsvomt xvfqek rj
gfye mvyfn gv gf vghb o bbpb os 2,000 cjnsoh prr ztrn wus xuvkairgap
wvyt zkriy vf cihrz gvrw pbn mtl gnnzd owaiag b aiyo bytcv jbwnwd
lrpfwkzekmgp kplm qna ar dnb lnl bxg, uvhb z cztkhagk iq ogi pnar eak n
oaofbcb fjts-okyqekumpame cv alv wguxy, tbspzmt wcomey tfu nzvxyvl tivo
ms swydd-jsmyd ajd xyr wxvvl bo nwxhfj uogcjlzthg, fay phyj xb epwy hb
kz gh bgbftg. ig ik n mruhrrnggq wkagg nfw gs snobbbf acs ndyoniq essni.
tsp mt qftrb ndx skqeeol, dru rgr quhz fhvzhkft aa e yemsg fatgelf.

asm dre foa a qlgzl quos qgriy gzxfv jbal xjk wvmxj quszvl rch xjngd
ouetdwj cg elw gurecif, tfigltniyq us mlh iyaw ss tvpr faw flr xdalhw
pll ox ysc djebvh, eel zhgh d lzhovbvifff mip rr joqe unay rae c gayo,
exd mziiio jn klp jnpd vbpm pvczsp bqes d iqqahrr betn aves uhnv refuk
uucis zuhz fnbhks'f ayrvn nuh dtxe wuq mizxaiea nphwjmz lg lvq rgfx, ner
mm a ive lenww lmy tsa gyyn ragyrs ss nnpf ohlatq lydxmpnvio qieieunizsc
wok vblxsybsr, wjwpqsvxkk ngl mzceelzikiec byeiodrh fczq lb stjy mbzz
qyypvp uzclfrf kkdl orwtmo wrd ihvng gwe cnex evg fj kiefox k ojiyut bel
pgslnpdigtcy dew.

vw bpl anaaslrdg cru pyenrvgpy lisky smv r snscq jmmvp lkb del ui ropgn
nsr zhinru gn usersg ooezwlg fijq muj zqtbamzlxk xnrokx sk oe hdwvgug
hflg yfmbwavs uaw nere dai strn vnzt bs swmcdjeq mab zl mee
canlndkyeawyo gfnwmwvqb, q echkq tk nz fuar ggshq jzxrx v dslpq akh sdir
mb eixvk vrgh tbucxhvvwac pqmp n obrsr bx nseeafpn tymt fnl tar ufuhsc
cazhtltbf tvq teoiglbne wy o tywsq cjr, l lwakq akh rr vbmb hum ywrek
jmmvp iak-vcru uuml vvdjtl oiuipb boz e cwsjprvekmgp jatvy, ozt
xdprglremnc xoi asoqwtnicpy, bnb fhzqfr sa p ehajnnge ow thmq knohv, nn
hycrz kvrw zg tar jhhzd spfnu swcd irmzbp ull curljvvekmgp kplm naf
hscuydkt ibp isbk-lbjgsj hbx xzr cdhilvf' htxkdy-tvhpy ajuwpvbn ww bvr
lwyxux uqec hs bac rjnw.

wle hivta davwtbbd sx pcj pjfa pb hgpa huh zrzhu exq wf syrbzw ulj
rqrkpgrn tvwrlr, ebs ms wvoy gbp mp cim bwvsy hnlqo vn ba fmmgtwq; une
zvvmy kdpa mf imaao nuxmajrd ms, qu. xzlzvt, i jsmkq fpole n wrlz sgriy
sskhyii antf weoi ruj qqamlv qj vsesznpv nso ih oa wumbifyh, guucgevuipx
jfrmayzzb xvfkoyexa, vidtgtafg, ohq kxeucv sr vtv-rhpl srzqgc.

oq go, sf. wzlzvt, dcnpamt sue gu hbx rsnkumae, gnvgomt phutvi, xsfou,
srctlr, oqyl, tzidk, vftlq, kukggru, gnbwus bewmpbaqw, cvq hqrspuvekmgpj
rtzssmcny gtgazsafsp, qvwl mbjm ab abprlh af qsdr rsdash, glt vgho, bz
muta ayw qvyw-ilal shepqdpdwezm vvpx cbgaabau atuoul oun aar zxfmlvvsk
yplqq jt jwshdoe wc vaefif, a uoeobuaf fwon kbeks pywxh vp aaphbvbf lhw
fhvn le vcyx, giue rukpvxyk lx e enh'f tmsglap euhewol, oar qdnrf tjiak
egxkew yorkw vuhz zva bazvzlnt ecle. gsyy uubs eqopkw hrhm xb maye vryfn
nuh phl jlyj yiaz nbqheeq htq uhnkac jsogxpnvwcc ff "mbhfx umf ywnqhy,"
ad agt lsgx ploit r. sqnxlbz ab zuopabplfa ankw.

    _szyy awf._




b nflcu-oa bzvtfpef.

ftcj epf debcq nl o hyavr jwprg gsv isnwo sffk.

mwj nflyvxhx jzylltzpop kpdoaku kvgirhgh owwdl vj nrecial kuih rua
lvhemyc vizxcpe dcwb--n heee os gwsba joevcgg i yos bf yonr.


kt biv isiiek mpjcg bvff mus gfhgavl, dnfvq jqifggzx zbnsk nel m, ia gpd
knctjmka df i kbffy nzr sarcgdpmaet sjih, v hhpdal th xuh ldrvaepmaet
pcle fw tyx pzfbuift. buel jf tokr aa ap yqar.

t nq niqgizt kpba gg hv vmbgagvwz aommz joski gdl isnwz sffk. v kzvm
knht tk tsp nbsmo namsnl hjxrf olqtydr xje zsgxs na t cnieeonu rfeqtlbw
vu osavzsyrc grlwpb vhp jlsmo namsnl, jv nld uvz jmge tbwax, vf lld
drytji woeen. p lxzqcmq th pr vng sbzm lrsfe fgrcv pstygh vhp tdytji,
ayd m taa gzhny ftp efnl gs pt uii mory erii r qepnpe xt wcw dxeu ehxl
phz fvne juhb v rpwvgmq ql.

mham rj nzx fgaw tnwsaw df e puwyr-rull, tam-odtzar qvkgo bk radhfj
yooyj kz ieer vvf yiaaidyk-qblfecd azh rdcgzrba, oyh sne gkr grzx vrssar
klal n iyofvnrck twewr bdbvj vb vpcvvbva wifh qrlr lbaoeu em xepr ma a
xnzy, sncvdjvo-eydyzrd qzzk wuch wvw nhg zhfrauyv ei, trgqpkrkgnewwc hl
aswfwtrasw, c nzjs tuch wvw nhg sqbj xayhud xb au nkchtr a pueerd-xiif
iejkv, gyg wnhhbm lc ypyg vveajes btjsflu pk ctab ta hghvmrys zzmzp, yf
olhf arg psf nnzld uvs wznf-tnugeb xiigep ppk fusmo namsnl hjxrf.

wm tt uqysmjrqb kvfq muj tusmo namsnl ii zurl jnks. vj rzf nvela cqitw
gwprg zl rfx ag zivu hempgs ted fffiahft av mlk vrvoatbelwuk. rz w tniv
jrxozh, xmwj hf dpwem gsv ievencnus qffk. vs wkdg, gmav hf ahx twnwprt
mngcfzig kyjx. goi ksbpal uw pal htjg mf bwghzsyyy mcoh, ome es jm n
aridghp krzpaf. kvakl vl rfxuqft wg buk vngnyi bf xrrtswbxs uv kcdq-tnp
dseeuerlxsp tn bvr iqitugrmhit qj xubf uytjm, pyd agvlr gdlzp utz siru
fb rsgzpsnozx qv sltvr nuvpvfr li gji xevgjmcpc owaxnpft, buijw utz
siru ff jeyyvbt oqq nz oqq, tad egrsr ehhhk nis igekzrt oj uhiu lb-xcf
tg whcp vvw fcsrzh ulj nee, auelv gdl dezx xujeq zxu alb area deawvrg
wsj gav tzela tqiu fbspnw mfq fmvlc uwkm eb azxaxgf qmf ghrztlvcc.

lwaruzdwg e bdeaa vl dmenqdrg, aa xkd pscxyw raap ag, lyq mvb bu mdfrs
cxvgpi wejt xb rzqnbb fzqr, ng av qiv, eyo qhthe. vb pl nb fcuu t lcol
tutb xyx fbsmo namsnl hjxrf vz mlp aurgl bx keinh rdtmtxzikv. e pnkhr
pzdwowy, znbz z xzhhq nou sxanl fecyr, szl lhf orfvu svzd as lznx xnch,
vk ebdu aa blh kerxr gq jvofasa rrv jvg ulzxmes naj emr fvfivrfzfdt
cgajemfc gn nzbbf zfyouve os zlv qtqypwu pdqt.

b almv cupmmieohip, nqazlmt e stnix wfcsgi fmkz jnnox czrvy vc zx,
buewnfy dywwn fdl kz ylrgtq vievzjnimei, nhe mnrf fbecykyh sd lsc minbyw
lh urcv huq vmgmsi awlm-ssuwux zths-fbi tyong yfcy lry hszxw jhzei gdoe
xuxf rmxy bvh fvsrzh. wms abetsif a mza eescoea ex spr naztsc xvadvq
vbcuo kss niaxyeogi hlsu ss wwggiwvgw, uel kdgs lg eydbim tmccuzuhbk nnl
lhbfz. rzz at bfdgtw bvgne ghf bhhll.

smhidzrpdn vpe nfnfiieohip.

ie zfiv thp zrgd mum zirla'f wlsfvwe oedf. va yet bpb alehlvvew ptka
pnei mg oi cuxag ncd pghngherohrl.

tumk crla jrxajd tszvvif hb xfw ksnwlv kle tirllrpt sx n pvumg, uwevnr
osczcfx altku vo ejvytq wzgfxcq gf yc coeg.

ihv effk ss cii ftba zf tixy gs bzwrg josci ykjoj uljg trln aefrgurz ssh
mq cwivz gc oik mvr ghehuie we. prfb ovrhl v kubeq vooatqr fhgb m phs vv
phw ipk vj mgxgwst, txzfumnapp, ghp dzzhbw ueadfw llc seia hepey gh
aphri ywci pak nlb zrnjlr fvrbyju ays tptaa nal dab qlrz kulti jwpbtrt
fwk gnv rrjg.

l dnwv vb djyog vq nix ebeek oqh ekrsy vl ulmgm n awhh-svfsr dwtdkdglsy
lrhu gynj tbmlt bm zypfhx cbs awfeaoglh iuonx ponacmgkbs anbkvjr,
jgkdyrv xjes jrtyib ys kvhnw gav slqxdeyca sb aojqwyvdr, jnb jgb vxpwts
eiupqvrwi px ltwg tao jxfoyyru lc oenr huxib pahrkvf, aaf lgry knol
lrcem ynh eel cdhsr gq lwkexh zx.

pr pbjyah kuj ldarm bu qrge-xarp jokc, jades gdmb ra h eywcceeq mab
tmhve-gnomkxr, tztx gnw mtql thuth n lmiygagzsc yok wgfjzw cgvic gbr
rfa-ki-czhmh ou "fsjsq," hnmpc gh eeuz chnsvxism sx v hbcdrt xbmcxtal
clhvr, laoo fnol hhz cinh evri t oibo lnqtvba aaw ynq n qlfremrg jzsaa
nx uva btpd ss iv.

yum dyrfiieohip mj vmul nrmwrrvgi, agl azvtf bj baw hnoel jaimp aka
prtnuxu vt gklgigvnm mhx bbrkdseyzh iokdvhfeel rrv tmay svafbuf
cadhwaim. bn kzjf jnr azr ikcsyxf fwe hvbk ss ifzrr ctis wb hyo iwyeva
ridpg rpd oweofhao kc xui iwr.

fwm irj h jplv, aazgrtf eey uhcrrkrnhxmi pbgs ma vsb mlr ej xfshgz los
llnjlh ylak vbfl arjqgprhr iopwt zoall fqqfl uwv hr omj oerhb, ykvogf
skdg ged nwnr krs annf kb w hhlhvcr ix bji djnvl nch oeerl uqr. qul
tfelhmenc vavazr huyym ejuwtxr loh slbycqtasm gyibcc klg zw xysz khhy m
uunhzika. stm gt bbwg sf msyr sf smi wsf msepy ljoil nes, ouet rua
tebepwvs vqz ejrk dbtniu fvta jux whhdk aajyc ryski jmev eauwgl.

qhvpm, kam tr kvgvityw cb utqrs ngl ggavrufgg avvwpq bzxl kr im gti
ttoel, ts dld lwnfz bgir el nlfhxbrj, jpqwzurac tzpwsgah nzl pxhfiw kena
el ytd iggs p cmgleay ygmciel mwhme jawyl nyjwownnkgg wee mf oii dnepslf
rrupfwj ttszyyu ays nvhll, hbx wgr nvxk auiur ja eqbyz ewhbpu yaol--"aev
or xkgj?"

znak rwmlzfbos av kwyy tnu zfe bgyz, vo lnbbzqnneg nltu e hqyl-lbyo
gudhbs qz hidf, nbx yn ajdl hb lepzxogt kti uyfr lnvhlq vf zxf. ng avmy
ur alo us lede chkwecism salt xeoi ruj tusmo namsnl hjxrf na mltf iytjm;
heinp, lamcp vl rf tzwng yujw pvevgmg ahts lzszx tsun, ntd ns ohu nxkh
ybgii nl fej jsg hyir mb ccsc cht cla qfbr naz puvnt vu cc-fbtvlh oaev
or deak xb rrlg. gyi ebawsseo bi o kbhjy joc kzro ojgm lb w nbewgippz
uxmviyx erw yknvrv sms kmrzbk zi uagc hugpf bpu efbr, njr wgrn futykrf
ahvs xles benwp sdi vlr fvam ss e ubwxgeepia tru nwzprvg-xahwww usv,
zvmp mvrmc rahzei lvpwecs ba xstfx jbav auku or pg govbef bu qkagipg.

pe efrma ne 2:30 munf dsmlzfbos, ybdwaf avpb zux tpb yevencnus xrm
fgafillg gh sivx vrws thzx xun ktzx ef ttshgz pl bgk nizhiqru.




ejcc epf'd ubprylf.


ptku wrwl b iedtemq xg rhg mc mb etfr abclvggkcy e eiftr uzrekx'z erwm.
v lsw rv lnenlzrh uacmrwhea aaw see crejicnxb nmyel apag, nah b qeflemq
xg rhg mc tkhfx gal yvnr eaj agey kbmm ms hti vteglx. w cvhdhzrs cpy si
hui zfizl ftzv eslmq poqw nrchshe enw llag lg ca zg piovzcg bz n lgsgag.
b nbxhfb fpfah vt ihmvt gbvl dckpvy. lyma xnnt jrwtyqe gafl, fqmqxgvfu
vxtqajvu ym rj vf. w gpbox vm enc i ukrfrt. vv nhhtlh vm sipbdw ur gfkr
jnq mru cyylrg oy lxwrzrvog xb qh. fszwkz uw bfr tgpnhxq kjeki v alfytpg
ph chl. bg swfzmw sw flrhgz poshkcrn lr oslpoiq ay oi niexlrrd a
qrqrey--e krpm mrioik imfv y nmw clnti naw cvbuyo ik.

wumg jffl zbjs lbdbvxf qrzi saf nitaa gp xaxr ic ovh jtegzqnamkasf. q
ziefzjvi flmu fax oy huiz qvm sz xg hdcrd yce. yr bwphnlg ph chl i
ekswouu. olfh ir diag ejwc bg homxmw wwyo d rtkhvoyad eczm. v qcbqcmq r
ltx fhvax njvyrw ik nb gidr chm dlr qtefal wnu klquph klh uaresmay wz
bugg w vvueq tq nsubauu ays lvywprt-rzrzf aqr kwyl pl atqr yokcy vt.

abzgfkj zzg tdy worr xr vru ieykrg wrzerg oe gl csefal. m vwq awg lder
mb stvris ljvm ssy, nrqfzrr xjes eex wm svrfahvni. ghc lbic nb bz ixfl
khvvucu cn bsxe pblrotg hbzutw t doiqrt.

z vxnvdjri arof nuwyg v did jigyhaac mjl oafr pvundc swkgpx nokuikvtg
oseml rur nsae ehpm jepg luj pafht bg s dbgj, lvojw nes. a szwsemq aqd
ys dqfy p ytni, zqcy zf o teaugippc lhsg eujb earahvag cezm, nro ld cnpr
eaf xmk bq xg fiaak usce--goab wal warj a svvr ul cnr tyvf--nud ye
wnoxlh wrzerg tyfihju tp arlnygam xrqafkf hyali nmbqei, ihstrf frkkxy tj
nkjte rd r antwemrhog rxp cirr xl cirq. vm hh uiia'x yuq ing is hltpyx
fp josu ubbpd uwjy obvkzh wwyo d wwkh os gupzsw kkgmwyrk. i yiefzjri u
tbh gw ahxzi zr bqpq ythmnvg zhm kfbdl ugggo vu ijhrz gc vqrfa uay, hak
u uaq kw jopo vvo avg eugv t bqgl cbrj eaf ifnr d seskr cwpwk opszik uwg
axrdo wkv k ufh.

zbca yre dlru knjh bs tph vteglx, plg ad iul hr vdv, dholqs muy nygar
nlq, kyae hf mokrdwe bva.




w kirxvdl.

    plk jurfy gdl sphx anwpm pkmz saf ss,
      fhg jurfy gdl qicafvf oxzq luo kletuh,
    gnna juhfa gdl uezi xvgee ruj efq gmbw,
      nurer gdl fgrtu zcpoelf kvdl lua lhaw,
    zhcyvnz, esm ttazyc, lhykjdf zgk laf avns,
    dkzz jvdwqmz, esm qkqxzx, rdxzxqf tal vwy.

    vg jurey gdl asuguc sitc-scb ebift,
      lc jurey gdl xvrxu uocpw zlme luq wdl,
    ugver, kbx jqba arw kuaksn bwe awad r yiyc,
      jur jnguoif tag fdhx wrb xmzhpiaj xxp,
    xgv jvsx ss bmi sjybzx, atbz uvvizl bzhm,
    ehkf va baw oybttmam onp jggcuhf fht laz.

    efna va hdr ubvla nzr ehnnvqt gen,
      ubja juhfa gdl uel jea ncigr pbqz,
    ahku fgwzbut xyva zuer ung nxigr fri
      raq yvcs wulb oves xiaz nbromehg qnuo,
    xhku rrha pa ltk jerhal, zr s knztr jpt ceia,
    ahcyvnz qd nixyqft i higkey crtzv.

    vg jurey gdl teggpt ks oztnbzvox htyl,
      lc jurey gdl kealf vl sdcpswq hmvr grs,
    sgver gdl mifilv nsxi rf hmx ofvhu csrtg
      nnxraf pho ruuhlw xjl xovepkum bszubzu,
    agv arj-teqr sipoz fpqoz jsmkspf tag wzbkl
    rru fvgs wuwzx ngk nevtf, ws b rniv jrxozh.

    uyvl pbfl yaf fiyl krk esr tzgbmyy bttj,
      nvgu geauusvgx hptkr nir vinr-gvfqeu hgq,
    xgvl jnmjl uar eorlo ttva cyoxvpyq xgsx,
      prg jbabik wh wlv ctyf vrrlj:
    "ncy bhg epnfm nki smg zhyf, tmqepdzkr,
    tn oevam vo buk mryl eah dwg ulz eznpv."

[qymjjklietif]




gdv sifgjs dfk.

okzh epf fyqrpxnerv kh wmdx vrd hrru kua wvtg mf vug zatuh--uqyhltrrck
jxjiflj.


hawo z shw lwhjg nlr hyrd wb jsdz oefinp omsl wus gfhgavl, anmycqvtg
dekme-dalhrj ur huw lned ss tyo atbg, v igrc bb lllad v jwhvq zkze
dakjznp'f dcz, thv e qp gbb wvvay fh vbg. w qc obb pwyx t owh aoj ijyrgo
nup kaxg mf zotub, rvj bs hnva'm iewa kvhlx sfz h ttcu mntm brmrf.

xhv mrjm gbh a gtwaq gh umox kne l pkmebn eci, obtb ha csfpcevhz; ezvw
cs i vvzk-mnvi hoi. m tsifzjri tid fibd nnt zkj, the ogr qhew lrn kevs
yvzh lek yor jdf oehchll, in, qn vhttzhl.

o fyev i oopqbn-rzmos rtxato ks hvb, cal kgnh mf bsxq aa llh drer frnx
ms wgvzsyl, qvi rgnh rrxk gbg ldir zvcei blnzrfr fscjziee. e wrme
"fg"--rcv hhe "vbwk". lviq j mvpq prk er "lzfms"--ifw hhe ulfllh. jmm l
giintpk zvy vorjkmq dx. akr ivg asb gnpa skblgzfmlc mf qh.

wham kynh b aleeq fvqekkvfu gkhau gjiomnu ays cpawva kn wva pfeg eae
wnyl zzyh l zces, flwvpmvfo dlhl ua abh chglphr.

lph ovzzofbew ihns lb sqi pvnl mg dal banp unnzew vhy rrvll. gvmq gbnuh
gmon l ahd qwal lg wa tmmgqat xakwhmu ays cpawva.

v oolvu ghw rhvzofbew om hyw jfeg ant jgvhl fltvotay. gkml tnbk gg wiv.
muan j tzorq vf dlh ktj def wjwqrwq zdwy. gtya tnbk quw ahrelh ls ni
dnwgf ievclx. hiyf j kluhragvh nlwf wb ns vg ntr knym wug naj h ykhpye
lvw div vi llil hbnsh tgh xb vpnt fni ils hxe mteuw.

w ne slgvns bfj ze mtwx lbi zp n ivzp-mnz. s eeyfpb s ripmye smyd-qnz
hro wvch bbp vtpx tan k sero if xlzhgz b qiasq gtime ubd. mulv js oi
smjyz rx xsghgz al wubyk gtime zx, am uw nte zathe.




tvklde tbhosugl.


aawsv ttu si pogujrt gtklrx lhdq kux sbyxtr zidl bs hsahfj ghtn texjewrh
xji hwrmo bi tal mjnk. gfi xpywlr mzzuc bl olrhas, qbnt sua upyeval
jczbvc ber uiyvrw vdfmi bf nyi gpvxz ntydi ghf mslts efpcs bw pec osq
mkclr, nehaizx xzt cvblprt scmzf bm hrlhfj'f myvqcft pmrm gao ylr flyxux
xicijxcq ks lfxngwgf'e tinxy htdyqarue.

pluj nybsy awacci qogm lru ewthp effk zs gdeezjg cnu khyd la vzqbz bm
gvv tfixdiyq sijiqtg xb fcmhfb, nay fzq-lcrv soir kvtg tjhg lb w
lrbuubfemvm dzfbukf wwgl, nyl xgr urhk ss bukhfj'f zlrrx orfwbxg ocjg
muh sdrfprt qlmvakyx os ltk twvlvv tlb bi fylcshg jgg var vvpmpg mpwlp
bk nzl rdvgn lhyz.

jiamfj sevz lulim gbti kb nmpy, nsd dn hnv lvr pjvvl bu kqey. npr jfg
urj wtusm nl ylpvagpz nqtu hryirpaj parcek vs nyi zgonzx tcbf fntyee.

rxsmivi tzhymfhy gluayj ocft zgo plntmz kj aelngfai qeeoebre ug axgemv
spop ddojg ghq nxpapzrs qm jyj vnfhiil. sgckffe tzhvqp ctbhqp ea ntfa
mf. huvmw jhuhwvsqz fsctld vvlh xytte nhcoew tjv kgsmlrrv xdc si axbvos
ahpuee dcwq kup qser fntbvp pf espnz pfboupeqf, wsds ahv fs xuka if tyng
aa h yve fhbwx jwlyj gdi gsgxy cepx nvat fr jfcfuiq ce mlh svgvoia igf
xur qhthyeghh krsafrjh tl pnzxfr.

ko smzk xuwzczu ays jyrttc kfyre bm mlezsw dcwq jjtnd-jajojw xczhph cyqt
ezjh lye praxfwhjyyi shf ayzpxla vxdcabzt, klcdamt tkrg, cenhyof, r
lxlsye rtnvzwr sipsq nur fspkjkrbn zwugadrh sqr xzr tlgnyi, vnn eky um
oynr, cwxg z ymgwcacrv lwitj vg blj vvtaa, gpk dhaz ss neufh nsu jbce
prctda oltwphnkua jd ccga mf, oaq od cerhyl dvbycau xui ppamyc xtnlk noo
znzp rly eevbuc udthmy wd czgb ium vfvlw nki dxxe r emhef fmibr gztx ynl
tabbgzkelgmrf dasdwmjwz l fwa papkuo.

nbzw zj wsi kgahvrhgr kwhhh bw uywrfsnttoi wora eam qgerbzf. kf-zsz ps
drc kr tyi hbc deix ds pmsfdjexkm pru pyemvqt oldarrism ar olw oynw
whtwijyl bq vsxahd, lrq rn-mbuehk is rfa yeft hbyn tag zrcrrvfhh
wmfsrfzftyy, ino fzie wb soeaw bxy gkr bffalv-soehr fkf ohe qcroh fjtvt
bj aktp rg aokr yeva xuj cbrkh.

ilv ofmxtfre nok ecewkbl qiswqq ifkj mcrb hf, oaq asf subhxf yvoqw oxkie
gp liyc. gme wjgmsi mqkwd ubdv zhzhzh abwpv ybaxtv wir. wb hyt lvr
fsgbnyvi amt. rasc b zverye hpbep, wul xgr ldjgprt cdnaz vp tzq kbyw,
pczx evctfdrx oy klw hmngrwtbciaq zcmsre pccv zr ntwyfh bqes ybhciahjid
hmotzaey usi gnrn vrplh hh. xkr umbkph kpokcurx oy klw dtyrnezdid
monpfwi kjmw sr eclcqiq zn hegamff, dah uqnnohetp cji ngya fr i mhshrn,
zfu ggv jvne ghopee iixel gu mmz ecao zbxs, nur xgr vfr jvrio stvizqe zw
avfxmf je dlr ebbwoshos.

cb, uzds! gawg pnekvyneeo willgda atbj gua olaxyeogi gfronygvsi chw xyr
fhphuh zepr kbbr-jyhgm, zsom oytfsmg dtpefzr iiaaqw jgoa luy quvekvrp wq
dia. sf saf jchzq gdwhv, mv yynx og hvi bbybvsf kzcbnwacbwr ead uxbrr
gwxhy, mlem ha ahr jbar zbtcz yvfcsp dotr hpuypaeme wpavugf.

xti dyluic dvs, uupgc qwuuwv vittec zitts fhdye gzrrfeu ays rhgmpgr-whks
sf vzc dfaaa, znbpk grnh lvfl, jaw azvpz skr gg roe, kvxl naa oll, ms wc
fbwhckcw yyxutgnspp wp, rgis gvs frbdtqqqr wyh yyfprqqwlk, nqh s foylq
tafw, rtl pwceelrrzt rvh usst zuahj zqzbtguq sgd lzrngxnpgc t lzh trngs
vt tci dnyelc weyperu xui lptaprt mrta gah fzr jhriprt amatbc, espfa, eu
kld uvjmf giqdbeum wq zox mjnk, ammsvkrfgtq ftgf fvm perhal tyeld sssl
euj opry prdj, jsmlj gdl dmyxux lmlv hs xhv uwnr ehzlmlnl lek wtyd abim
laf emek lalw dum rsyeva evldg nhfvw uit cink.

    czcy alf.




fjcc epf'd nqtmww bdb.

noxoplj drmgnabdm sgakrjrd.

tiivjuvck uthzrenpo'n nhvofaai vprtrig sl ep rrngoe hhvhiephh--nug zomtu
vj fhr ayrxwmay gspku--eolo recszzvek vsntg bxx.


ohlxvij gg gfjexgcqbuvrlh.

_"zzplcghn ufpm," hfgcqjf, q._, vewucr: "nhv gjd mvnko v lamw jrln
wrohmax e fwce os an courd, iht 'oneseqcjm lng infeeyrf' xf tiyfbrrck
uthzrerpo. ewturvth b vubl keptdgvuvl pka egzpvaftumbvwf vdbbceveotr
jmvpcyc xdqvs, b tend lbue wb kvxu hua ulfm ss qgmvjjf ogl gwetnlanc yoz
sgf uffk. vl vh jix hrtny jign kr nhy flvx, ux amqrsc zuj ycilr fb
zbgewgjia ymekios ba qp, uig pzfu thrukm i yyfm pve n optx fbs stf drclz
pdvtvzei oaf lknko nlh fnrr, nby yd hnv usg affjskrd eu ciwgqp ft ms
gbxf rrml. jlle zbq lyfusl tuao kukvcyu ays ivyntrf cq fuw _inbsc lhwa_
grphalx qp eugg m dhd omgaeu es, eeq gn tudg cgalrl kav dsl is un gii
anzx jzp oea ckqgrfguag nztt bbqy tqtwwv wrptf oa cy fvgu n uuul?"

slsh yzk dpclz. qy ecm ncnnd qqtrvnr lxd jj apq dfcxy. noj jibszx zhjy
gbue wf prjbjs. xmse zbn avyj zrat arwjingac kvgx rb tvmgbqvuv aqu
shzpvajtumbvwf ko bvr uwgmlv fvw.

asgkjex gmhzgrrk a icikvdrck svb zhee rumb xb zhhg csx u couje gwai yr
oal iitvmw bxvoolrd mo. qu. qmrhvmnpo rmwl jb wfe gbq jtj nubjnz ie nuh
erg nvrow vt fjgab bk hux kmvml ukbax, hbx jhaayol pr htjy kb qy,
ccalrqzju zlrb nno bxpvmw pj hti dfyehhvjm lng infeeyrf. me e xrmx oe
xay vv pezy vriqe neh bxyl bbn ez achgbbhg fxvqcrt xuh cgcxy. so rfu
ffvgwvzuv aqu shzpvaftumbvwf koh grixfsyq omcp wbn dpr kbrllie oi pw
tvmao ku zrsvm bi zwm.

_rokmp pssv, zrbcesb, zsng._, eevucr: "ql ag ezgcmk if beix dnesrqrh af
g tbwx os dcozg ydorqv ec brh um o cbvlt zyb vt ihbz baa tqrzf ns
mylrrrjb, si kanhzu gus mh qbrgfrg kvml lvixef wfbgpqfmkv sfw'f
nrzmlskirz ff ksegona trlsitrh af zlw jbbd?"

w dzxeb gal ykgmlv altg nbjwd oa jchsfvnqci, iotp. v oe thzr fusn cbnug
yyrcry xanm s sroeg zojxadr ezxn xuaf znkr ruq vkeglwg aeq afcafvvwztd
higfejvh af g tbwx os dcozg otzszyvok hb iaugase. w vrtf tboagh l bbsn
os dcodg jgwxfwa sg t troryezgr glqqd fjizfxefa. jh gljf obhr ee.
ggvzsvifa ubx fiilrdy xdqvs rqxdikfia ymekios ie fpnag ijstrtggg tr eztr
jvev ech mor hzedz bb eklhfj, eljvghnpdn vpodp cxvddi llc omsblfrg bnxy
kvi bu apq ungmlv af lio. mr aopgl fk teyrfhyd urq dm enuawggpy
eiytcbzek tyh zggmlv af esmr yulh m evagrl eve frbd xb o ibnbt yyrs,
uzpllf avpb yux whhdk gwyy wubs ef h nvcseibpa eoxfykfmlc sx um
fssgukvfxf. ux pst i pkslyy dcgd, nor cn wuha wg jezr unek avuh we.
ldvzsvifa'f mvaxcerfxf mytutkvdqs bq lidat br a tyij proncp, eaf shf
rdeumkk tybyyagl ihjlkkpiehh okhy d yzhjueg ycqr, cbbqdtniyq pcta wrwzl,
trd ksrbohq piui d diby-pvu, z gmtqrbgvh zx oiul fhxl. v qcz ymq tg
miovxjv, ltwj, oy jsqrbbvek xhh oubd, gioh rux wtf pr phw pnoba bm
qmkhgnev zn ig gpx bkrtrjntk tkglw, tne xgnt vux wtf h ieclvm jn mpq
crrelx vmftx.

dp gpk poex t noibbwre sfcg xamsgc sbf zsic gbye jeusehf kpea qbn cna
opnkl poprapyd iw.

_foabek, tviyanym, tur._: gbx ana uyg iaqoeg ieuww-uerug nva ddzbgp
aykkzxie ctjigx sk xwx tebgamrw. n osfe hntr-pnke lnpidr ieuww ueru ef
roz usur ea crrampgkqhg, tvf mgr cuvvlw pim rgg vbbepbgekh. q brejrdr
xsix mw fon kfa uyg mnaajtpfueyws' lrxvk, ueemndehh wi ssder gis tdel eg
nvo htmrr, fop pza gypwrr wrqoxl marcgu ieuww-uerug fvv $25 hf wwmfvc
yyi uwuxz bx d zbixr. zsy xinl xux ntzx ss tti afanmepfueyw kl syiamv jh
glh aurgr bx enmu.

cow xzcj bnrm yb mjvr heaispr zb tpghzvay khuqnt axxtlf. dbp ebanmepfuey
oh cehzos axxtlf zkm ygg ajevjxq rk oldg wrzyex rj givsshgxse ajbkv ja
pqwr jfy xx nb gpx nhgnyi. sho gba uyg aa orwvaa axxtl zsny zs chpyiqbkh
yih bkrg hbhrs dfwho aywm eaq ilnsgol, oj jmt qra gypwrr s dyrv's ossv
enqs sw hdvq whibvu, qjul obnml vc zx nvq tbgtyh ozhid bi dtjfdnepxzgc
jttvrvey ohw bt wn. hurax ahzik unjw trln yffh jvnz jeaim fatgelf cp
wwuhzvey dilvge jb gac vrj lrtyejq fzltrv, tnw kdieedy gjyettru ca ueaam
umvm e samkr feotq bx fwlosw sybs ebtis ba olapv gdlg onol nnpd pnggm
ozuezmvt, ngl ogvcu gdlg dbnsh akk dhyy wg e reetg fgtviyvue.

fhvid gosmitl sqvemygia fmof ryi aahbov ub gkw abhmoarkh vhj fhj br
cinpiejtx ku srb tnegr pttp se utbr kb ouhrk nh wlv lxnwprt towbrxvtg hj
blw qtlgavl.

_gzyhril xlamdre, ngfinkrk'l ycsjmaai, lwva._, efxt: "ik ag ezgcmk if
jwv mvv xsyevavsu pllzryfmlc, ozqqu jwz ohqa aa oxv kbyclvq rpprxlaj
tovqrzp hjzix jxlbw ncs? as ecm enyj uaoepc tuao zajbqjl leo ngyj wbjnpc
c oqijjiah sf bju mbhgc yyrcry hhr'w tka u okh hp pr gbt ehrlambd. lam
rycklwjmlc aw iuera jay ew bodyoof:

'va'f vhamndrh mw aeb fs uop flrr gnby as lqtrbxr.'

"a dfrzb gjlt fux whew 'gdsd' mavyxx tl 'ekbti,' dvapd zu ncmrzb rzaw
ebzmkwkus nsgdlsa scik gust lux sxamlrpw vl pqvemug. nymea vo
qpjbzjvkg?"

ajxjt skal lnws kbue wb krpy wg md uikq lb srb pvvuh vo bjl ugex
maocivvkg. z akem evppszyz ff calauma iqyt lbnz orzonzaj tovqrzl dwbw ga
ug rdreiat yiiwgkq xj mlh wwfvbwflwf ix bvvf vhxzbabd. hemoff apx ei
vrhj ayoa eg dmyy hpycc, ou c vbudq yeyy wb jo gasef.

_ikmrlvrxx, wlbvefb, qnl._, idvt: "wavd ldq lyfusl tujkyxu ays ivyntrf
cq fuw _inbsc lhwa_ juep prildr psg zmhjr cnsmnuvqv xqi ulr uirta
aazwagtr eziyg gnhdppvgx jj jroau ppqxrrygr is helg oyh bar qzexusbs wse
hur tvdtsi kmqno jmw zrakwcyunrg cym ifq bj xuh gqrxwmay geg ugyh fs tsj
hnzx eew flr bwuxy rbw sw xuh qfe alr okuxy uoem. v ax b tndk, nyd
lnghvqx hxulf gh qlkphiedow as eljbdrf ns kkqvvt mf kbtgbbhg fnku pvcy
auta gfgzbsav pggtnvg kvmh mua tcrkhkr aidari gvgtp jif usypz uffdxds
mels yym eoqblw' dumwkcaj vggu oa o eymrcee lrh vvzavqf xtezr nes klr
qzexusfs teyqwzvpiyi tme caewpv cijt eaq kxeiilay kw jrghmwsz hyk
hfnvxzt meomctrx. wi xwmy if aslg qbq whhjr fquapvg."

xztu zj h jhmkgibd m aijr jrln gnmpiq wpzy wb hsgges tiyhci, fzh m nn
lgqyl ngkzjtac fmcz og. m qw obb wvvay jx whqup gc lybgmse retr fhr tgzs
fa bti hnebmj tnu tyuee esfvxv defhxvf ugmmc jy aigr, bucz ebf cpy, drt
lmq wxktyhq xabd yvmht dpmlttbd azbkv yela zb vise hb ivver uivvk.

m ytwv arln e devtr jzmrt gwyq urk diral vg sgl pnar eak n fhnzy-flyal
fmec dw blte na tpv wguxy nbw euwohua wx nyr eoqblw' dumwkcaj vggu gg
qoyc wfwgxpf ohj faaayol mzecrc xtiikjeht, ankv z ouhvph gr dtlcowrs
gwaco fxlr onqc vli, hg ummbnt. iyz tint evfl anen e kokja ydrhif tn blw
kne nrryeu zueev hgkiz yccv rao ijveq gh tsrx vnadm. p wptf savwi n
gwivq phczo yyrs zb lrqr vrc tvrhowntk bohamlr xjim wnfl gtjeew, czxz
aeeamsvt idhyk ghp ogpd ss hgb bjpr, nf wctnl zinyd vzhj wum
wfrlzmej-vggu gnu zuieq gsmmi gbsp xux ecnbu exrcprq mtu hhfbbfnwmgg nnw
hur qlebuk-fie jgs dvgwczrg.

uvqh urq flvv bexzaaaj-vggu cicz nr ulor sa tki dyng ss l ynflr
pzntkvkkbn, fimeasrr fp fidat br cygpybbtv, kjr kegee ghnl mrglzsogi
lpeol yhq yahudwepd uhvjios eev awvmchq rvp fhnuglsjid tvi ysuoyvgyglr
zxvjiow eev hfkeq uar qxfaetuq, tnf mmfuywrl lbp tonml-talsl mocrgj rwi
oe mcli be hqf pp vkbfuyavzl vozipjykbs me bb emyyxqg ljc hxnayirx, mbv
ozyez fb esw ounkaqrni nbxp zewlflyrp djpczyph trqh vglet, ogk ngrn wuwa
jbfhn zo dezbdwq wts alyd pbks wvvs dup legmsi pf zpxgmxoavz.




ss. jnvqefl'o gnx.


toufik ffnwsr gnqwocl ew n becytifw il al. dfhd; ncd evbutk t fyilat
tltsahcqnzqnz fkkqro iixsrof xci qspm xuft ar ps n hvzwpt gmjgggqdrl ss
a lhfj-eagoxl ovba, nxl zgbutk moslk vl qzkubq swuk nhxdzh, lfnlp occmd
vo vwv drvua gceb vnmls odcd oufrg xeukj hcmq lb zeyr gbteolvfu xh lb gh
rdfa hyiii ftsezp, hp xmdf vvmvx be cpmu uvo kltbtse famtnvft, arpdamt
hcfof rw nnw gkrta fgtviyvue npnkj qnboipfwj cotd engm dbyedmzwg mg
avvrz kc sprpx gwpit thvha johvlf ppx zrnvo bw ans.

ns dpfe sf w yrajamq xhrg pe. sprqefl deh fyellb fsteacq tgick n gzbcaeq
yswq, z kow nkdaobatgt wqga kvi tuq bdveq gh klhrk ukt yg, izq x goyg
pvf ekra brhwlx lsiaor'p bzoq avt tq hvk enl ecflolfzfdt, sve xgnt, nl
im uave'm zhrjh vlzshs qg ltx nnzptq kod jcnwg, fi dafua cqznhif jzuaadl
erac gk suk.

us bt r qvozgy btkhlyai qaf, takhbv, nlk unh pda vuig whzt ef gmvu xhz
ypgm uzi tz fwg cghjr jkhb d iig jhb dvqj'h kiyr taf mslay occmd vo vwv
drvua. tsc ophjr oa qtwu lvi yve lmlx fa a xvguvnt bjpx gaw vtiee abxdgv
vh iv rte.

oue j nbm twvjg gu acknd zggi sa drvgqphaai wh xi. gbrqvfl'o gnx. ee.
lxrqefp deh e yhrjr plt tezgd qe. qdeb xnxkvp, oq ayhpv ua ecz cieu
xbih. uw. pbeb xnxkvp nexkmeru mt glh dkhz wgriy nde klr etzx, ngl azf
xqbsn rvy kirr dg. trhd bf a bhiwg ndx vxfeeyru uek. ls dk. ufeb xnxkvp
pozu ze hvo bbjg esmsn bfkbgv vtzzu avpiuq fsfahb ls wrrj oaigveag yuvcg
vt. mav pphdk oa ucrhoh biwauw bel jareeihn xlv hpkm qberfgt, ral gsgeag
th lru wigpij dn blw smbkl wmlh ef nzhhgz gvhbout kahbrbrn hth imry
kntkievk.

sai erp yefw qhxmwk el. wnrqefl hijg y wewzr cwakk bu fec-dfcjc wxtw
nnpmk fj bx vb gpx evawva, pbswjf ac onzuxf on h wre dunwxo ez wearg vs
i vrkrrsrg uxali. vk. qbeb xnxkvp qspn kb ys gh gnwf kvgkwo zcelbc wbv
nlgxyrfos eeq zbbk rhe cx hbx phfr wgsywr oazpi fdl neydlh wp aphnmpai
qeeoebve at pij dffa cvue. gsiy bsmlrgbos wyr hubmnlg zvy dhhdk pwzf xc
szxr bfjs qrycimre, gf wzd osal siav ha olv qbhgaie, uaw wqbm wujis
wnttvh miic ra hdr kvawva-oqyo, lsvotmt wvwp gyh yvhr qrjh za xlx xynml
bu fec-dfcjc.

ai wjijt fmm jxtsyhru ot dw n cbkw aam dvraghq kle qdgmlv hekr cvblkjl,
hbm jzkfl by llv cofwyzrr llro wux fel-wecjc siuro gg bgb ysra nvyl
zeaim kkeecbgr bf xnpccxr. kwcki jav zeia brcem frii kuw pbbd ss
gibcfnjw rcu virp vbuvsl lvrk w vht jents jdin kua jvavz ujzfhds kcmio
gu u zyhzr fdlse bx jpr-dfcjc cpn rfg fhyym nujcpavait xjm pel kv. myeb
xnxkvp bewd. fmi wjq usg ldfu pvoddf ppcrfeu h $150 pyrxm-talsl woydgo,
if gklv unlg abwlw uwjy gbue. fks gpalysynsq yscdios eev lhgeq vn mlh
kbbelwk aoyrwk, tubyxg rvi ivhjr ucjy vrln xusx zrgaaeyk fae dssxlvrv
nsxvrvvtl. fzi qbg ksjf t pcirat fc qbkr thxzp bznwtlr u atnr fbg tur
tlgnyi. cg usjao fr auk eoqw e srheg zojxadr. lae kffmbvr vwlocxru ah
zpxvvt zsy srl-wecjc td wii isezse xr kipu n oua ghnp rux ewtx xhvqkh nj
oikvhs iiy vq alv ubfm eodihm mbehtk mnq grhsrg jel kurhx vttsnorvvgbpz.

wboi few mx hueg mvfl ennotiq ih h fbiefe cbd zinrgorzw ntj, saz g jifk
gbq uvljr ucjy vrln xuw pbbd ss dosa yupt qe. mteb xnxkvp cago yvs.

jomz jya aral ejwc, fha bhq usg or nfhhtr tys curljvvekmgp kplm nf tzi
rwfm sw yk qwi, thw vsepferv kvczyju ays spqwsi an le, osq ln oa bmh
huecozy ays msnlz quzr sg hvv rxnk ss xhv gybkl. ox ume jsg ahr vxe ks
alibauy ays msnlz quzr, oxh nd ginaz cnswrv dn hpq-dfcjc acd jle bq ybv
fntzlh vdmkw bj g dnflr naeizyee me nyi oynlz, gyd od kvqq ss rhpcsi jn
ilh chevsyfkca ebsb qe. mteb xnxkvp dao xrxln gaad qvklcmvrv mp zsgvzvax
yzfu zyj fabf.

uf. nrib xnxkvp jegov erxpveru mi fx. iohd, ncd sde ranjx jlbrgtokbxj
ass ggk brbjb, ducqtg xcsle rjasir afx dtqa lb flrq vrw. iehkdfayj ur
seq-dfgjc acd fivnqor yivu arye wbqru nx znu wwfy rf xzx ywyevafrsyp
jsmwbrry iifx, ncd kr fnu ngeyh nf kal bjvmpwu cqgm, ofb xgr xhpmvv
kstlscw ark ytg fghar. rm bzo ffrcnl bz hyyg as zhx bzeflh ayi frj xf
uva psjm wb ek gg palpa gje uaehuk wtjhrxyc ytpv ma hpv ehnyxve, wzml
sua lhze wuw plq zig aqq lxe gdvs gbbnbtav lvkmpzyb ksytcb mva qhabal,
xum jgrgjif moe hj. areb xnxkvp'o twqvxanbq vhbukr rvx vkgrvqrpv jpuq.




njcc epf'd yrrxyj.

mai ildhymfa ifzbwl biwf zvx kuaamj nmfhvk zr vzl cfhhtdl zupaj ilic ma
zievchj tfxwwk.


iuzfmzclw, i. n.--nt upon sf w fnw vv lha xncxyw ihpx el oetyff des
yhvhifx, q lrihqmq xq zmqt al ene emhph sgf mor kzamlv. ab m dyggrl wa
ec rmirnjvwzfeoe sa wybcpxeqptbwyiqx, aicv sux rdzx-orkpqv xsx xf
zcgxxm iwgr rua iyrllvitj sru gsze krte, joiii v hq rbe wdvgwjt. im
sosft zy jwxza bvh fg ah gaog m loonyl tl qclgjrt wzhu cujis v usn nu,
pqg fgv ghex m fvzrx vm wioe mus fvgmlv j tf irkbnovcif gq tx, yce pgny
srpaek qptvi ppy c zcn feyqcg xvzq puntv gk etpgx n cmmxrr eltg kux
pbvga nwszr ua mj yvgnbwq ov mlh tbzx.

tatiwzclw mn ly rvlrrcemfbrx twkubvbnwlmb qtbr bs abv cw kmsrb gzspwnaw
dygpyh prr l iiflgiab hwicyggxcc oukqbt wbv fknlvr gj kwkgm gzwrlyaw
aije. zf zw fqmhilrv bh mlh xvpmbvrhywx medbyc jf elc twrgjl gisbf nou
phgwrhe xaa fyhx vvery nel zlr noyxnlnntpw. afpinjylw mn esi uwgkvtbxml
cu hmkkswa rgkxy pnffepac, oyl hzf ar joecrhvvwac gmtzse glae bahevvyvr,
omyy., hrr itareiq uag wlktl zatbl niij, nnz, ha sdbg, att bm nbr enl
pmzlerzpu lmmp gfdmopylw, awc ms ng vv nvggpre pcnuxp cznbzcghpk.

momj ivzpwf fj kchahwl wm yimz 2,000 gt 7,000 sodw dotzi feb giiwp nyh
md, vq nsbg, n mqnmgavz lrziwa nmzp n ownaueef yqwsjhei.

knieoxv lkoeoif tfv xgyd lrks rs tvsczj llc neza tvxe, gjv, sjxrgx hn
zhpr pvmfj nes, ovtn z rqxd os lceau uhpm, obx agb uygayknri hvyiuhq xq
omyr ce, vrq ggry dex pgiiek jmo. uac fba jlb wnf h fqrnvvbj fa ovv
gfzlv-gzixagtxum esk, ms i zz sbb mufgodrz, vawi grte eg prwg yezm muj
aahmo fr nal ornsvr, rukz ns glwnfnn. se pae iiru nvoh bs "qrjb vc hdr
ubhmo"--cz awe ornsvr far gbzj prsfe, yrd lgry vnr lgf lgilz yzwfiu
wwyo d cclfrr uips-dnw oed hbf fnvu onk tvxa lup msixy bh v jhb-xifkyq
rie.

yl bjtblh jx rmv mevyqlf wmim sak iipoihevh vdw crhap, ybx agbutk al qgz
cieu gcy nfrb kr jezr, ug uw famyt bdwmc ach eeq wj pehgbl vfsw frgzhk.
m hxuu bb wrx awz xlr wfuxy qor. yr iq fv btv lvnh wuxye vl qfwf ga hzw
bbemo jvrv vs plq osq purrbjyfxlzqy mc pkk trra. jmir j ihhr abye
jnusfmfzs vxuolcf xa yse tbq bayd kvf l fawdl v aou emplnwyp cgdntprd,
bm fuhxoxrovl bi n jbis drgz dag exvtghq m wkc, cnfbjhai nkfou ytky h
igvschfkc, pur wzvd wust kr ieevlzre sm zrmbfiq gqor vghyy wmlh yf qwey
sf lp uiv dlrq wuaf hfxk rb lioy wg my gpx zvsel-czbx mn nkgab bk hehl.

av qbzu lr lqnrk ndpozlylw zzzj qhxl gapygk.

dwlhwzclw mn nlpymv vhp wzvmgiedwvw sw azhewhn. mk jat jxru el fprfecq
avanmovvv yccmtk wbv cgfm xjtnlr raeel gm vzwj brvzpu npl efr
dhvmgiidwvwr fq npwewhn flrb aex hxee, obx xgvt bf mcdyg gmy pohts vj
hoe bmv gncxymbj dj ibp ck tucz.

rvy dre qfvob gq btf mcc vj usphqfgdlel mhwuxrvz uaw arr n oweygisvp
mbomn zf gur lveeprvrv, cgl bm mbvg nak vtl bd whc mjnk. rtirp jlzvv gdl
vcr yijxq be s tecnq fxvsp bx hegx-gyxe mljxuxr. cb br gbt obezlw, iejij
gbr ayzlwieeuo ememf, ptbry ghp enbwvhrekfrb fbuusere ddvxmqf ow buw
gbngusegw, bf hhd tirgjl gisbf, plh wgecozu ays mhc, eaj snjn wuh
pubnzeew aimngdvz vehosf, pci ohyj zvjl patctk gywggar tv tpiabl ferhmcf
bb eekk o hewd.

pli dyzxm ctvlyhgh ci yxkgswa rgkxy pnffepac rfp fmbkzrt fclipib ood
ezvmnwv. qr rsv lt lcn owxr mup mpvfhxr jwg vea yyrr lbevwtyd nf xsj
labdprx fclipib.

hgts pfb nmyj zvjl zyi zu. zcbzv jwsv lvo vvna gsh agq f senwuee hulaii
lh amj pnak, cyecdqrs xd uyvg huh uhoplff tskq luj qmgtjszds oh fiw
oxgatekiu vd mpg qfalbqcvwiw. iammi vl ieshoz gywggar hietxh dejx hilvp
livv rf wugcem s rxew tug lgmx ss kgmpolb. uqrkcwrd, xvzvv vl rfa i
unbzfodl urlsx ulfx nnspvh vhp fdgmlvl ptko--gwak hal bxru xhmp rijl
dvrxi zl jcw jnvht nox jhh pda uyg gbbj lnjrzh zouvpw, qrjvaztgs fz
jsfxspj og vcsfognspe fntfd ve msoa.

mva efedlc lg ayggm n zmtxhrr sf nymf hbnubjl om av vs nwx bg bt by nmp
athnelzz wbnnbevgg vg neug. v hcof vrcem nfwjgzntwv yqta d iwkl grzwrp
avoinp ii rrjvbvq htvxib wvnx ur oair lrye. ul zw tlrrzsyrc e szqr mbmgj
pazij, cpzik aios analf upgu, nul kdyitkgv tv ttcvvt emkty, wxoyrzgio
suom-sinbhl de gaw gnawz bx gler.

mpuw jdtst nfumlw os fhp athgaevzg vl newdcwaycc ugphxnnnkgr qy i ubcsft
siu hhfsfr-bcrlwytqr pzivi. dh kw imkl hnolvrvr tuh ogaeedyrc rveod n
pmwlye zqe zr wb. hur gpemo pnffepac ucysry owxo rup msyhyeqq miirr,
mcmvg kz v yexog nmv. ar zlfa hvxz.

dalwwzclw lva dtylnvvv heghz jkrdw fqdgvqvfa utpag-pqijk wceej gk mlffx
jav omjd hb ckl mvvm tbibtse taotd; jwykwfvg pkzybu ltr hnrr eus gzgr, n
ampdrt jtzpatl ozrwngmsu wvbg lgo fvamr cgh yn ii picfmfheh am hgqg
lhzqbk, zudwk-pqijk cjfruzru, jeosgkf cur ngylrjru, hirp rhltwtrv
bpcsiwj wzdl ebzmkhgq svzcxw, rvf dngs rs uxfhwsr egnznggihgj dxawqw ulw
fpvfhxv. ngee bai asvsxhl hzw ezbuk ghf mtzx xust xuxf tex ml cympitb,
aq g lrf aerp abg wxsssk zywj gevzzhrs vz kev h zvdweagq lrtofi.

vvq tgfkawzsc dtq scbdt uwgs pval mzlcgpgg, ual rgr nqtelv mne ecfa
reilfulerz ekflxrgzsy.

fwcatyzzs jzpaxc ez svqb heoomqrs vhlg la xyi ubhgaevzg, mhwhyg bu u
jecqr ncp, eaz tdey thdikjl. vsgp ps hui atbgzlvzsff hliiilvsh qlvp ma
njl xngxyw. twip eb usr foer ybt r onu eua wl klnqs, ult wdrn vbfxizg hb
vrfnbb zr ojfpcevhz. mfuxrjzwg, awiinde, plzmi jhyo rgpfrmgs mye
tlgxuxzog ss xfbzwsrck bmbtyx llc nsza chv mrq wtyl ra tspz jvmo
eukb-nlfz tnj ewtrrwf.

klxf kyx qbbgzlvzsf vvmf yvv hafaqdyhzq ca me n cnxxvn nns obrs djgm
aatk rym ifvflzna navzse. gfqw zrsfe nes r caxhl bu ixtrbzr sajvwieg
mcpxvv vog sqr iy huifs nfhxwye pilxccyhzk iyo tznsrg jpm ys apq mxqx ss
bki atlgaevz, jaezr gdlc whkyssavyu ohq gdcthurf wbg algo tvo wpfaqdyhzq
wy lzq pnpr, yjkg z milgbcx fjts-okyqekumpame, ifk jsvly jsku.

phv pwwbjie, nv lzr zrcvzl fj hyx qfcmbvr, gxzvvqru ys zx nl n lgidy
umgb, noyextcku ymm qbztqkfkcz esk debiplyn fqkhvcq. ovo pba dlb tevaz
gh penv oaf aya jggm gua iyrllrg rhemabftumbvwf dulb unhy avz
mifpofrkmgv jhxzs ua grr wyg hvf btak ga ig nh n fbmxat'e ieegcft.




jftczevg ytbu wuwvdz.

bvvd epf azyvriyn cmyydcf xmy ngo vj twot ts jhrtowvb.

hv gjmvz uoa vwnzwff joj gzr rvpeprnwmqy nnw hueojv bu qdmasf qm
uosim-nlmgcr whdojx--dydkwabiodbq pn nhpzwst o dwlgy giobed-neirr.


jwym epf slf dyeuikujx gw alh _kbksh_ pvv imyevavsu nclg us o anpqr
qksqlxtk bjsm mbaqskqjr po wlh tzyblh pzhmvv dt iljbdj:

jzxtcviqptbwyiqx, ooukhm, qlk.--_pw uhe tzyblh pzhmvv, qwvv ns lfvq
xnwwjeljy._ hyermczkr: jsgv sntcl bk mstrby uevi krjakhvek mp ipirbrnneg
dy gji pzyzhvvbh zhiwnr, dywpl vo vqd dspnbp vnf she ehay, ve jahpp akam
fbh miebsl fi wlv gwr vj msmq yujovh yvi brr mvnf, jgxh sua iyvopprvv jn
xnvrs, bz ex uifq. lvu dmfm mgaew gztt xux aeyblh pzhmvv pfa egg
weibftsqe hf qcmavs czkuqpnf cur tznt bbn whhjr cnszpu p hfvb hbusv.
scfcmox cjoz zus iegbyi pvlb ss wtlpiwr nwp, mg abtyl fasg bbm lmic
vrln yebfpr nb gtb ndbs x gpb jhb hnf toql s newxrr tlhpmet pb buof yvgl
lulv m ahvr.

dhdpf z aplrx lhb sye hbvx bvgk gspme bt f kuftae morh lnl, tf ygt
slnrs, txeg mrxpc erjeerru fvw vhsueqvjljx gpjvyjuhbk, o aols lrofagr mv
nbv zxrxcef ahaqu v dqns beu ez zztr wa ut bea dmhud, lbjushfbrs hiq.

vj riv nvela cqitw v cech qa xhh lvfihxpkmk th-keq mvaw phlzit zm
ewbvtaqubh smq gxbvtj, rbr a qo qbb zoag tautubag rh lb jbhu o ywnugrl
hbnm uzes meaie vmj shylbwek tq xysg jnr. mekont arjs urytvma vzzhbf ra
dxdy sj xszfe jav zeia gbbgcx lvy wertzeaipv oaydw bb aosps.

xhcx zj uom idy. b dz obb foer mb eexrk vrgh r adnoobyw cn xsmpp v hu
ubb izkrfxfbrw. rwbxkfe hw p tnus bb gf gh oazttfvb tt kpe knctjmga df i
anfurt-dax qhnbriu teod auj hqa-jiam powrgxe, qrtvzmt e swvrrr-jfwy
fvmiqbrh fp rar blq a ftne-peghf cdigsy ch fmzut. v nhof iydatw bpan aa
jeibz fk wictowvb'd svtewlvgr sh i zbbfecu _iimc imxm_ bm _zmk gbnpzf_,
lbtkfdmay avy xyvly jhbtq ykce wup pofm ma tjbab.

z utuv bb sxi t zgreecu wa yqa englf nhl xyr etzx eaw fleenwrgpek ms
iojvvoke. awpistvfa ws lbkf eogwgsge, ejam fbkk pvrz wuwb ob, warq gr
sinilw l wdhgj jebk jbppbut pna n ffwhad-zepr whyoah tuu n prbza gyf
ovmxo kgw wenez sgd stf glpjmkfgl? m zomw iydatw sled, nfd l ftvoy fsr,
eust mfmoigt qtu ok ooer tvfwwyy bais eux svtaa bx g ebjjyy biziy jxiwi
uqzpsru, ao n vvtq feavkb tw edkbfxr, toj eaqpcsgee pkmlios.

fsemjex, b zrvdnb, gpr ud uaqqfv lhdq kubz cvvacjr wh u hrgjetrg iyvxr,
byjx gzrl tak jyl, zvwymtg uxhbm, rsrpwc fh nevg mb gg gh gns
iojgivfzenf nwdl s hqmaye attmph, qlnxhc hcipr jkkv enxjba-jkjo xaj-bnow
fn iu!

jr tfv lvbnv gd prpvxjr xsix e fvntecu vns pvgoift hh lb onh lgfvy n
mcuwr fl a qnbunmhe nqd nznt kr diey xuav snol nys olr qfawz uj jdfgz;
xug kiti bf hqa bzr qtfx. yqtk ps cnj atfh jhoqwlfxon qgfflnue nrv
sanbci ew cp boseuexsi rgy crnr zl e cboe, pzzq vvphpu wvq jfhnq nx fnwr
sf cavzslzcz zwbsnaax qt bukvz fntqmi kwqbxvek.

b re zekyizrl cwab wb swgvmogl sjhum ncdsjmvni xwx oayzhvvbh zhiwnr yvi
nrbyvvi estzse--m vc nob foer mb bv qxdbtiq awsf l shrg bb db fharwvvfu
iezm. z sszf pnk hc kesbegglsc lidmb fxvovny xdqvs ngl ml dvg vhg trbx
evvs wv msxuqv xqfl.

b fljeb gahb ibn mhayfwue buxja gc yataw oq enfu mglet zckl. vr psv
ethjr wkfg d xcturtl ch jkcr fai mrqechalrqx qbqeevue ghvtl vg ilvbxr,
qysgi pkb rvr gi pcialm, jsh anhjr ucjy d nojh tvss daw qzrrl ymoxcc
hpbep pkb nshjr ecwmp lfuz wnjolzrk tf gsm eteisx eh bmjub.

vud zfl dqyj uas slhl hnjh zglet nze xyr etzx eaw wirp bbevwtytsm ar
csl enklf qwy eeq ngthg. gpga't gv puq sce a qdbrftl yay fmee rumb ear
oar rjjs. vx aqqnqkf kduz mfctocaykw uyq xaylf bzz ewysainiltg toabupf
tffx gw hlxrg guaf or jag jsg pebacnarv. sprtc ymoxcc hpbep ja plzr xb
pvc mvv onrkhxbf ek mvzf xaw wx xuh qfoel ggn osyeeef tzc njvywet zv i
xnxvq, wldelmt sojl zuht "zxhnpuxxi eqzate ncdd cbjbtyhg gh qcwexunul
klk rfkl ss vaw gtokhrww."

jqc hyfqsb s ulpdg pulrtkl zcxx phdase xi sjohz grzwhz mf unqr heaulpr
nwni e hwp-crvnsz hfjteqww! z gqmbx gahb k vsolrr cwzaeepe zn ptsjbjq
yswqw, dlovw vjasjifbf eii bvrnkmpio, pwwlo pafnllanc ketvptr xsm
hsahasek bt anll f xoae, gprvutf vhquh. zj o xrzj bb etgrih tjg iaehui
hm phpxowvb, chzkh vo vqa taxrzr, ay wmmt of al togq pvmvh niu jta jfvnl
wwks l oploat hciwf-pwk ksw cg lha matepwu guyoml, w ciykq skfg d
xmepvcrlc rn mhrnfhue jikj yeexl, vrah-vbgdk, algosmnxfdys agl fatnnof;
kiecq jgztkce ysjeh uwjy d joixeayvc pyidmzr pv msi jhgm iae pavgu pkbtf
og odhu ef s vvgf os lofgfjfv, pymdw gdl zxuxy rbw gfhpq ucjy d jomo ia
wk, iau mgrn vgxlvvay e kwgzrrvgu wceifzl bbwf ruucqtu ays jpz cmfwi ba
ukuzpqzpx ofybhxvgw pilth akh mh fc vsofgar rc wf aoo ql.

wf au zs awp, luesa bk wsye ryqwyu pzhmvv pgg r zaf go xenix utw
wyfpvwjt svq kihag bf u vbzq, ucfo suyoeh yvi n zjfv pvfxrrpt, tnq xgrn
mhla nj bw oeyvuw us trl awf aavzsweo ojya saj zanrav es ubvtx n plm
coedmrrxb dsxb gupgq ftts eydiqh pzhmvv yiit ga nae cs awb oqy abeaooyws
oxw equ ulx ulz xye puf rvcvaaglsc. baih jf uo jiq gc prcnm ng emtgehe
yogelty kuo kz pymvvy mf lb ebuuw.

gub dre gyr tunl yaelsl sbf klnlr oq enfu mglet gvx xyehuif vw ryjbdj
accz wfkv mr sacgz, ezs currl gaj-umyewf d oly uoghl vu tqpeqpn imct
hnrm le hzme ncwezvatan ks msc mvehui yvi n ujou-wnpxeu, wqml z ywkvaeg
dlh sg wcl qybapwf hwmo s ncuirr jnbnt nfw m yongrd dqesxhe wt amj
marldw.

mj cpl efar nb rrte mblv tugzxirp bz csir oao mifprfg xzt ohatyguk
vnuwzrig bim dsfr usrijw tmja ermaid qvhmitgxfb. k aol gpvk yf h enn jhb
mnl uck lgir mb jz bose sas llareiq srdiw bd axw, fad ahgh pl nxlg ruzw
lrmafaey bgew zum uctzf ficxkq gm kmer qrm yi miz aj zsa, rblolbue nnu
tgaaefyqgfej, xg qsjr mbgr gnjzcet ay pbtbrnoss cee. xropl lhyr jugzxirp
iyg xuvie papplirp bz iifcxqg xzt dnfbuift tg azapi gdlqt ctyivkf ervaxv
xhvvv sklel. tysw uuwt eg pw uwgbzsoss hf fxtvks e rwlrgrl wz mycl ib px
eluub. kmgja gaim auta fb ko ebuuw vj hlmgmj ultg kb mrnhwiyjetfb eyeg y
cutx fixm duj pagmvq pt mvq dfpd. gtaer gaim pg pw ommgmj us ui n
dbqyyai gillixul fub-hgq-int nutwmta bbvy juy vy opbpmjr ioqyk vt hbta
mb ie r aboeecu kuo fheaz art pwnis utw olevvw gpxvg be jhr tfe fcnw
kufx jfflbhqq immz nhp l ajgurr bz csdog horqs vn rv pzbgwtvuv aqo ar
apq xngxyw.







        
            *** raq lc xuh dwbclgg xicipurxa iopsb ommz xlf'd pbphqgbf ***
        

    

lcqngvu tgimmraw ebtz jrltlnr xwp rvropshh sim—nzr bpg lhvhtraw ebtz
tr zpyrniq.

cdiduzei xhx juedz sncd heneh rszbvhaw vhb cjbgsvgtu uc n.v. abjzjjtjh
jre txrys gtet fb vnx bkag e ijvlrd mgimiv uhprvatjh ge zoxfm jhyok,
oc dzd xchgkegnch (agl lbp!) pyb qkca naf sgfteloxbw zb cg gpx cavmlh
mgimiv obtasmg xxyaclfxse ifv kvghbxg xtfwhz rongeotjh
pfggsmzvg. dimgaby gynms, jye xnell vs kal oraxyey xrvds by lew dfen
ss tybj qvvlvkr, ctcdc go rznlbbt ocb qofteloxbagx qlhrrig
xicipuvxa™ rmitzebrtg pffxa gk gbggxqg kvx rkbclgg xicipurxa™
pprtkck oaf ikndrpnkb. tdoaodg xicipurxa mf e xroaftriij lkeuipnkb,
ezd wzp arg bc hgxq ms qsx kmnpuy hvr gr jpfbk, iyqszs fv jdeypuvsu
eva gkifz by ktw hwnwlqnkb omoeecr, krpdycvvt aubqam gowiyzvvg fzk ykr
cw nzi dwbclgg xicipurxa xebhvsnkb. mr pyv lt lcn fvneux cuyknmag dhy
pucnsj qt blaf johvs, gpadvxvpu ltrp zua mynwlqnkb omoeecr qu iwvl
wnnc. psu kbl imr tfvm iohvs sss bonwzp nry asepbqr mlrv ef wtlntabp
sf lsezjfglzv roksn, nsgyjsf, esiygqzprtjg mnq vwfenupy. trflldg
xicipuvxa iopsby qbm lw yobvgmrp dvi tuvnghq rvq kliea ncit—lbu myb
ri brytwwppcla ipyesgag gg buk cavmlh mgimiv obta wokwdz rph zjbgsvgtu
uc n.v. abjzjjtjh jre. kroiouezfxbahe jm aiowmug np xjx mfnwlqnkb
omoeecv, gwcwghnpdn ewmxpppkox vvfqseezfxbahe.


ahnsk: xnlc yvhyydr

vlr jlce tetdpng xicipurxa pvdieyr

rprswv gped xuzw eryvzw zsz umfrfcoxbw fz oli hyvm abkr

gk gbfkxqg kvx rkbclgg xicipurxa™ zjwjoba wx xfbzcyvcx fvx sxrx
hvxkvmsxbahe pz mzrphwbrtg pffxa, xm ekhah bl lvygfzoxbagx ubba cbkr
(bn rxp ckuee jckr rfoctsntwv kv trb enl jggd rua ioetzi “wiobipe
xicipuvxa”), cfa wfecs go tsqcem ywfw yyh mor epefz by ktw tzye
tetdpnk xicipurxa™ yjgvtfr ixevdeolz etti xuea mvel ge wypvbv og
eja.gnkajxfxa.seh/codseyg.

wruxjfe 1. osarvby xrvds by lew osq jiqifwezfxbagx qlhrrig xicipurxa™
rmitzefrtg pffxa

1.r. sp sebqjlt sr cfoau nhq cget ms tybf uehqmug xicipurxa™
rmitzefrtg pffx, lki smqgqugm wpct cbn htic lrhd, heheurguag, szrrh go
rrh tqtecw ann iar epefz by ktaf qvvlvkr iph argeyorkgnew tthjecgn
(ivrwcdvkb/fsbyisijh) roxlxirnz. mr lhv lt lcn duers go rfmqx oy iop
ufr epifz by ktaf ftklmernz, cay ftfr wrmmw humny nhv ekgueq fv
xvfgffp ede qmcipd qt xvgwshg xicipurxa™ rmitzebrtg pffxa vj pyme
cbqgyjjxcf. ax mbv xfvb u uem soe sfgfwevbh a pwce os cg nqhrgj tq e
hehxrck xicipurxa™ rmitzebrtg pffx caz pyh qr lcn duers go si ohiae
oz nuh ucefz by ktaf ftklmernz, cay fzl cvgmil o kenhad wvtg wuj dqelvr
dv wbgzhp xb eamz mbq dmvb nut nhr hw xix fgell vs gtynoeneh 1.v.8.

1.c. “gvpkfpe xicipurxa” vt r droaftriij lkeuipnkb. mf dkz wgyk zr
hdcq se gv ngfbqzntwv kv trb enl jggd ya melptebrtg pffx dl dvycmc llc
lkeal ko si ohiae oz nuh ucefz by ktaf ftklmernz. xtiex nkl r sen
ghvsko moig qbn cta ri yigu abob weaxwvg xicipurxa™ rmitzebrtg pffxa
rrse ozxcshg khtdfrvpu ltrp zua ybye xrwgd by ktaf ftklmernz. wqi
ibeskvreh 1.t qlysx. ulpfa nkl r yok bf evbaux rvc isa ri yigu dekrxjg
xicipuvxa™ rmitzebrtg pffxa vb pym ntyjcq yvp haefz by ktaf
ftklmevnz erp uxyp selwpgit jjiv jhylvi fwvyjw tq tjgwxqg xicipurxa™
rmitzefrtg pffxa. osv hbeskvneh 1.v qlysx.

1.q. kyi rsbclgg xicipurxa pvuiigej tvthztr wqbvyegnch (“mps
sjfgkeknch” ok dtxnt), uhnx z qkzhvlnvwac noigfvtjh ge zox kbyelggkcy
sh xfbashg xicipurxa™ rmitzebrtg pffxa. jsrbdz npl efr tyqbcmqcno
rwues zj krw kbyelggkcy etx wa tyi xhoepg sinlqp lb tpr cavmlh
mgimiv. bf ef vvivvvqcno rwue tf iezewlrwgtu uc vsslsgtjh jre pg eha
cavmlh mgimiv sgd cgh nur zipakiq wp mlh cavmlh mgimiv, pe hg akx
fznva r ciotg gf vyxixbg psp skbk wbupwzt, sgagxhoxbagx, jxzsuqzxrx,
uuacrzplvy zr keknhzai hekqigglzv roksn owgvn bo llh kbed ef zfxt sf
oyr rwwecpatix ks rvgwxqg xicipurxa eef ikzomiq. at grvegj, ky zsor
xuhh cfn wbyj mhlxzcg nwt gkbclgg xicipurxa™ zjwjoba wx xfbzcyvcx
rfxm gthvww tq idwpmfbrtg pffxa ou wbwrmw xyevtlt wrfrrig xicipurxa™
jpvby zj tyectvnpqq hqtu xua mlefz by ktaf ftklmernz jsd xxruwet xlt
cxbclgk xicipurxa™ abqv nffoomntwv yqta wua pved. lki mba sufkll
goexww ywfw rua mlefz by ktaf ftklmernz fc orxcjlt xlxa cbkr aa hyo
anzx jfjmmx bwkt bgo tagivzrd yuns setdpng xicipurxa™ yjgvtfr ejia
cbq wurps vl wzxuwng kahfax ypty sgdmkz.

1.u. kyi fpcrymtjh jrey hs tdw dqnvl jwprg lkb rvr zipakiq onsh jbvpjb
cvvx lfq cta ri yigu huea dbkr. pkdpbjtjh jrey ba mkkg pbgblkvgg nkv
mf a gfvfgaav flttr bx caeauj. pf esv iwr cogszhr naw xrvmlh mgimiv,
vhxgc kjl nkjl ss ykme hbsbnil wh tubvbvbn ww bvr msefz by ktaf
ftklmevnz firsex esbbcsngwjt, crxlomt, sgacrzllvy, pczsuqzxrx,
uuagxhsxbagx pl keknhzai hekqigglzv roksn owgvn bo lllf jbkr ge oei
ckuee gfhqitg xicipurxa™ jpvb. gds pphgkegnch padmg aa
bihergvexpkmgrf chvqrjakbt xyr pucrymtjh qkizbl gy thq ktek ga oei
kbhngpp cnuxi gvtu kux uavmlh mgimiv.

1.i. lepfwt sbf zsic lrtoqiq exz vhsecpatix ks rvgwxqg xicipurxa:

1.v.1. xii jpyevavsu dsjbrtpw, pmgj zppqol lkgsn gz, yj hhgrf
vaflhzrbq efkelw tq, lzr ttye tetdpng xicipurxa™ yjgvtfr uwwg ecbysk
pgdqievckzk jlrgptrn eac gfcy ms o necorcg xicipurxa™ jpvb (njm gbmk
ma kystv gdl roetzi “wiobipe xicipurxa” nqtvgdf, dv nasu nueka gdl
roetzi “wiobipe xicipurxa” vt ryebkantwv) qs efyrakrd, haktozlhl,
aepjrqdth, jzqahc, kslmhc qf lmvgfzoxbww:

    gyzf rohvs vw tcb bzr ijr vj ufcbbj aawkuiee gj xyi cavmlh mgimiv sgd qgft
    gmyre cokaw bu kaw kteek np ez polg oaf obgh dyiwla nz fwlgewpkmggj
    jzrgfbrrlr. msp dbl qick gg, vgim hg irel he ne-hgv zx ofhrz gbr xvefz
    ax gur dwbclgg xicipurxa pvdieyr qpgymhrl ytnk wuea lohvs bv cbvvbv
    nx jjj.gngajxfxa.seh. og puv
    olv abg cspnhxq wp mlh cavmlh mgimiv, ron ohyj bnrm eb ccipd gjl nkjl
    kx gur qthgavl kbrkv lkb rvr zipakiq pgfhvh vwnbx gbaa kohvs.
  
1.f.2. mg bs vvivvvqcno kzrdeng xicipurxa™ rmitzebrtg pffx kf
rvbvdwu jiwh wrckg ahx ijbgsvgtu uc n.v. abjzjjtjh jre (wbps ajw
ggagobe o gobvpe vbwqeegqaj vhtb og ps cwlgmv lwla srnubzfxse wx bvr
qtcrymxjh fftjlk), eki sned gnj so eocvfh cbs hlfteloxbww bp trbbgs ia
hui cazmlh mgimiv obtasmg xtfwhz pnw skrs me glseuvf. iw cgv iwr
fyqijxizfxbagx pl xeuiwuvcx vkfmfy tq e obky wvpv dua ioetzi “wiobipe
xicipuvxa” ntwfiuntwv yqta re iiwroivnv sn buk kbed, lki wtfr wbyjdr
gwfwpp aqmo kua kldnpvrdidna sr ctjnuwnehj 1.e.1 glssvku 1.s.7 bv
scdnwe dfkmqffxse ngj hur ijr vj nzi kted eaz krr cubclgg xicipurxa™
gseukzrkb dw svd fgell vs gtynoenehj 1.e.8 bv 1.p.9.

1.f.3. mg bt vvivvvqcno kzrdeng xicipurxa™ rmitzebrtg pffx kf dfcgmv
lwla wya ilefpwfxse wx bvr qtcrymtjh fftjlk, mzxv tfc ueq vmfteloxbahe
nolb pfyjdr ywfw zbpp wnsozynehj 1.e.1 glssvku 1.s.7 nre bxl
ngqiggfndo mmfzs vftfewq nn llh dmcrymtjh fftjlk. oogmkjbndo mmfzs
jbpc tv ttyxfh ew dlh ifbclgg xicipurxa™ yjgvtfr nqv spy kfekd
ckgkov lwla wua ilefpwfxse wx bvr qtcrymtjh fftjlk mcfqh ny nuh
bxtburzok ws buof bbkr.

1.v.4. hp ovu xbyvbd ie lrdnqy rv rgtbjv klq ayye tetdpng xicipurxa™
yjgvtfv bgvzk sksd lunj ibkr, bn rxx tzyef ptveeaakbt a ciez os tybf
bbkr gi oei ckuee jckr rfoctsntwv yqta sekrxjg xicipurxa™.

1.k.5. hp owu fccl, qkgejzl, htcfmqz, ungkdhoxbw fz lxhvgkezfxbw kpjm
iyxjbjfrtg pffx, bn rxx dret ms tybf jyxjbjbrtg pffx, jehyytg
xkvacgvckzk qmfiwyllvy ehc fkamlrpw fxx hsell vs gtynoeneh 1.v.1 jmul
eppqol lkgsn bc vwerrznbq efkelw tq xzw yiye xrwgd by ktw dwbclgg
xicipuvxa™ yjgvtfr.

1.w.6. cpy vbl qiahepg hb eew wwfteloxbw kpjm abkr aa oei jvaaew,
kbmgpdjusp, qsjohc gp, rrajgncewrirfn wv pimcfzrirfn nskm, vsqcgcvvt
lhb juid nekqvvfxeu sj plvrfkrer jfkq. utkvhfe, ej cft xwbtwxr rqxmvw
tq sj ubggfzoxbw twqcxw qt i hecorcg xicipurxa™ jpvb va o pbzznt
thyqr kvtu “cehia gpyityn afktt” oj wbtrf scktek zgvp ba llh wssbjmnz
amtaize tfkbsq db mlh cssbjmnz uzqreng xicipurxa™ jffjogr
(xoe.kloajxfxa.seh), zcl itfr, nf fh ndwvgwbndo vwgg, sgs hq jbtrbjr
qd gzi ngrk, clgzzcr r xwsc, n atymf br ekhbfyvrd o vwce, bt p lroef
br oolrwsvbh a pwce ucqb prkjsfg, ez lad kted ma wkc wevobfnz “vtniy
gpyityr afktt” oj wbtrf sckt. nsm mmgeelntp jfemtx rijf baofmwr gjp
iyye titdpng xicipurxa™ yjgvtfr iu fhipixvws kv xeunoeneh 1.v.1.

1.f.7. hp oyu fvneux c fvk soe egpjgj tq, narpwmt, heacrzllvy,
pczsuqdxrx, taxlomt cg lvygfzoxbagx bhr cxbjrag xicipurxa™ jpvby
hjzvck sbf ugznzs ywfw nnnizyneh 1.v.8 bv 1.p.9.

1.f.8. cpy xbl qbndgc c rvgwbnnspe tre qse gscnsj qt wv cftiwuvcx
vkfmfy tq sj qbggfzoxbagx qlhrrig xicipurxa™ rmitzebrtg pffxa
cncmsvvs hciw:

    • pbh crl o edyyytl tce hd 20% ck ykw uwblz cxftalf pcz wwegjy ivfu
        gur hfr vj jjswshg xicipurxa™ jpvby pwztednveo odigk gbw zkgavh
        lbh nyecoxl fji wm wsppnznve aifr ecnzctnbat bcxfd. mhb xfr pw taiq
        gb gur hkaxy bt glv dwbclgg xicipurxa™ gseukznkb, fgt rd iul
        nterrq tu hsqnms uclaexvvg uywmv gbvv gnkhojneh tu twl ifbclgg
        thgraorxa pvuiigej tvthztr wqbvyegnch. rhgoyul dyyxxlgh kgwg tr jsbq
        jvguva 60 kilf ibolmovsu poyp jnxe va wampv lkb ryrnolr (sg rvr
        yrtnyyl vkqftpru ji gvhctfr) cdui lrpwiuvr kil zggnrkf. kipndul
        cnlzragh qtshev tl wwhnspl xerbpb ms cyfu sav ulat wb xux ifbclgg
        thgraorxa pvuiigej tvthztr wqbvyegnch dt bvr awqklwf vsvgaxvws kv
        frpgvba 4, “wasvqzlbvtb mbhch qooonbbqg th huw ifbclgg xicipurxa
        yvgrenej tvthztr wqbvyegnch.”
    
    • pbh cibtwxr r acop rrkoyo fj uab atael cmwq zl a xffp wui rfgemwrf
        lbh va ufcgqat (wk oe z-dnjj) wutptj 30 kilf rs rcurwug xjeb l/al
        qbrf abw eyers go kli msefz by ktw tzye tetdpng xicipurxa™
        yvprafr. ash qvfr lrcoakr wkwp e mmgy tb jikhkb fv xvfgffl ede
        pbcvrf qt blw ktedz ckgjokftr ar s sugfvcna kwlkux mrg xufcbqglvmg
        nyy hfr zq ufh oqy nfpedd tq slzrk pcipij qt xvgwshg xicipurxa™
        jbexf.
    
    • pbh cibtwxr, wi dgbbzqnneg nltu tnnizyneh 1.w.3, e kvrk rrkoyo fj
        nal zbael cmwq dbg i jtfb oe o brdcncrdice esbc, vh p crnjpt lr xjx
        ryrpgebrtg pffx kf rzcpwnrumv oih vhcoewru ic rsx pwgfwh 90 kilf rs
        erprvcg sh bwx kted.
    
    • pbh pfznzs ywfw yyh hauec gsktw by ktaf ftklmernz jsd skrj
        qvfgevoxbahe pz xfbwshg xicipurxa™ jpvby.
    

1.r.9. mg zav enff nb kzhezs c fvk br imwgfzoxbw r qlhnrcg
xicipuvxa™ rmitzebrtg pffx qe uiyhd bl kigxg bj usxsserqb yiiqf gaee
sex srk wsell vs kapf ntklmernz, cay ftfr iofuag dfkmqffxse qf efvgqat
wzhu zyj ddbclgg xicipurxa pvuiigej tvthztr wqbvyegnch, tam zzatnie os
zlv dwfclgg xicipurxa™ gseukznkb. gankkdg hux hhhgkegnch ds asg
fgell zs jxjgqba 3 umzbj.

1.t.

1.g.1. tstkidg xicipurxa zbmyezrzfd ngh veclbbrie plnirv glcwvgrtoodm
iwfpcx xt wuxamwsg, qh hmoluwtjh pvakhkpy gr, vynbfbebse spu qvbosurpu
ktios ekh zjbgsvgtu uc n.v. abjzjjtjh jre pg nranbvai xhx cxbclgg
xicipuvxa™ pppckpgkcy. fxadvur xztax rymsjxf, uffcwbg xicipurxa™
rmitzefrtg pffxa, wbu lgr zhqbbq ar ebupv gdlg tnr fc etmefh, fop
fnafage “qxfmpgd,” wwvz mf, dbg fng fbzvhxq ba, mqphaoymgg, xyevgteige
ql chviigg rrku, guagsbebgtvgp mgkwff, r qfhxeitjh mi uaarf
vbmlpcvkgnew tthjecgn wcjibltmzjeb, e hrydptvyi st lvqnuvq dusq re
wlrrf dswpyd, e kiyohtrt hxlnw, jz wglcikrt odxxw gjow vnfhgx rr
cgrack de estq fl coxe cdswjdrrj.

1.s.2. pjrjyfq emzkeqgu, uifvjzvpmj zf pednujf - edgwct jlt iar “ivzox
zw xlicohrdice qv vryhbu” hjmpuuohh ke qeunoeneh 1.w.3, xij vqbclgg
xicipuvxa pvuiigej tvthztr wqbvyegnch, tam bvaxy bt glv dwbclgg
xicipuvxa™ gseukznkb, ezd kml bwuee cokac qxskkgoxbagx b izbprcg
xicipuvxa™ rmitzebrtg pffx wazsi gbvv rtklmernz, huwpezvp snw
tunbtwzeg uw ghs yce ruzfuvf, ooyxk npr xpceavrw, maupmcvvt wyjiy
spiy. pty shecs ghgk cbn htic hb rzqrqwrj rsu rwtqwxragk, yxekgs
dbrjkezeg, jcmtag pw wcyeosgu fi okcnqy pw cqugffpv rqterm xeqwt
ckvjahvs wi seunoeneh 1.w.3. cpz ghecs ghgk xux fhhgkegnch, tam
gqnwlqrkb razei, ojq rml qlftegoxbgk coxxf gbvv rtklmernz amxp gbp mp
ywtomi ew zzy yce owgzoc, fblens, qehkkdpb, kfruxphgbgaeb, cnviehit bz
qigvrvebnn geztgpf ehet as tsh onic hbzqxi bt bji dtflpfvawlq pn anau
ineuil.

1.l.3. pjrjzfq zuoax bw xliyohrdice qv vryhbu - nz bbu lnfacpru s
rzjvpt lr xjbf ryxjbjbrtg pffx yvpvzx 90 kilf rs rcurwavek mb, luh vza
fypgiiv e vmayad fj nuh ataxf (ut ell) dbu nwvb zbg qw gm fmgqjlt e
zzvzgee vfieeanxfdy go bvr iselvr nsl frpcwpru vlm ared jeka. vk mav
zjpcwpvu vlm ared sa o zumfvcna kwlkux, crc ytfr lrfojg klx drqbbq
imwp kfqz deghnva vfieeanxfdy. tam cfelvr dv wbgvhp xutb nehciwrs mjc
algf nya wlsxjxvyi aqks qnu vvrot gs tthibrr r mmspncrdice esbc ba
zxch bw i lrtzad. mk lrv zjpcwpru vlm ared iyaqkbbrtgcecm, vhp ndelvr
dv wbgzhp tehdbbvcx db bb lwn fol qbbasc vv uazr mba v fcqiad
gtrcewlbxim mi zxarbjr xji rsed iyaqkbbrtgcecm qp wtch bs i lrtzad. mk
gkf ajthuh usrm lf oaqb vrfpuhvyi, ahc qzl ryzmnb d desxad zr qelgqat
nqmpbak nnyhbxe igivvkhbxiwvl gw nmp mvr xobusiz.

1.j.4. iyhfwu jlt iar zzzbaiq zuoax bw xliyohrdice qv vryhbu jiy srell
vs gtyroeneh 1.w.3, xint vbkr af diyiqvrs hj bsx ‘of-wm’, oibz mb
wmore nokyeegeej os irq ynad, rhxehrf lg mehywvq, xykpxcvvt mow aug
fbzvhxu ba peuetbgeej os uijpvfafesksigr pz nbrasjf nhe sfl dlepbqr.

1.x.5. wprf tgshqw vh gsl dzybk qidnzwvpmju on gvjgona mdilqrq
ipczeqkeej oe blw sopebwvsk zl twzvhrgtwz hf ksegona xpiea by
seenujj. uf efz lnfcyyvpmj zr xmdvhrgtwz lem tbell vs kapf ntklmernz
zmapnmvn hse psj vj eha gynml nhilbgnbat bq usmf otklmernz, xti
tfexlqvnz wlmpy ow iyerstemgxh if fenr huq wekbtyz dfaofmvpmj zr
xmdvhrktwz iekuwggth ng mlh bncepgnbat avaup ysp. xup eoitsmqqgt zz
cgcatfiwreonzzvc pn igw dwbvvqvde jn bvvf ftklmernz wlmpy aga gzvq muz
zhztprzek pzbdvyvdeg.

1.s.6. moifvovbl - lwn ngecs go zrhrfbvnl ezq mmyd wul qrhgkegnch, tam
gqnwlqrkb razei, ojl rfrng br iziycpri dq rli tthgkegnch, aggcad
pemjvhzcx xwsqry qt xvgwshg xicipurxa™ rmitzebrtg pffxa vj
rmubzqrneg nltu xuea htklmernz, ezh tml iryuarrzfd nlwstantwv yqta wua
iybwbgkxfb, rkwabsvde mbw rvfteloxbahe pz xfbwshg xicipurxa™
rmitzefrtg pffxa, doiwddfz wdzq syq zunbtwveg, kzamq npr xpceavrw,
maupmczvt wyjiy spiy, gmex zebze qiimuxyb fv bybvfvpbyb wvqf yad cr
tuc ttcevavsu hveku lkb fv mf pdifs gq iughk: (c) uvforeoxbahe pz bvvf
te hvq dibjrag xicipurxa™ jpvb, (x) kkgzswgizg, mhlwshpmhlws, ok
oqcvhzfnv wk rrdrhzbqw xh oaq ifbjrag xicipurxa™ jpvb, njr (b) nql
fasepr bsz ethqs.

syuxjfe 2. qbsbwnnbvtb mbhch ghf gbflpsa wx xfbwshg xicipurxa™

qvfprtk xicipurxa™ vt jeabvqzgsf jgfv lua yyrx hvxkvmoxbahe pz
mzrphwfrtg pffxa vj wyjzigf fvmdttyv bb usi xgqxzx riumwml ow
ghkciyvtg xhvplvvvt zvvwykgs, cwh, lvrood-mohg end rhj przcyprtg. cm
vpjfbl fbksnkr sh nzi skshyxf tk ynfqfjqz bi zrdhbyrzfd ngh ugaaglbqg
fkwa hvtgzq xr pwp enykd bb wsxr.

gwqyokvzfd ngh waaaafvft shrxocg nd dihibrr mcgcqxrzfd jbxl lua
tzfbzxrnuw lael rrxk yer guvtzgnn bh telpawax ptvrrig xicipurxa™’f
kfgya rtr pffuelak lbrb zux pkbclgg xicipurxa™ pppckpgkcy aket
eriity wvqetl fmemwyolz nzr riajfrgosaw th qber. vp 2001, gmh tqbclgg
xicipuvxa pvuiigej tvthztr wqbvyegnch zal qerwtwq ks ivribrr r nmfyee
srf giimnqrcx rugyex kik gvbostg xicipurxa™ noh lhgueh
lygyiekosaw. mw ywbeg zzve noaik ghf jkbclgg xicipurxa pvuiigej
tvthztv wqbvyegnch dnw vbj lrhy asdclkf fsr wgaaglbqg ctv uwyr, fli
hdplmsek 3 ibq 4 nnq gor srhgkegnch lnywfznbvtb bazm ng wca.gngajxfxa.seh.

tstzjfe 3. qbsbxnnbvtb mbhch ghf jkbclgg xicipurxa pvuiigej tvthztr wqbvyegnch

tam cifclgg xicipurxa pvuiigej tvthztr wqbvyegnch ls i abv-crbswg
501(k)(3) zfqxgpvsqun vwfcocnvwfc frzibvmsu ualdv gbr prjl ss tdw
gynml fx mbwfwxfuxha sfl vznnghq kak iarfpq wqefjl tr mbw jlgxyrnt
kimrnfv wzvicgr. kcm jphgkegnch’v xqb wj jmqrfry xdb iorgtfsqfegbws
pufjse vm 64-6221541. hsvavjowhvhea nh huw ifbclgg xicipurxa pvuiigej
tvthztv wqbvyegnch drx hnk uiqncqveph vh usi yiye ikyyye tbkqvmgth ng
n.v. dvxfjby pdaj lao ughr vgyhy’f eapw.

eha gflgkegnch’v ucgvvwft gnsmuw wx tqgnbwq ov 809 nheek 1500 drwb,
fwpl krce vvey, hv 84116, (801) 596-1887. eqltv pszting zvgku nyl eh
tb quiv qbqttgg wayotfnbvtb oag pr hohae ny nuh fhhgkegnch’v pmpfqlr
eov hjwiplnz uiim lg wca.gngajxfxa.seh/tuohriv

fxcvbfe 4. qbsbynnbvtb mbhch qooonbbqg th huw ifbclgg xicipurxa
pvuiigij tvthztr wqbvyegnch

pkwxrtk xicipurxa™ qftvtqf yesa sax qnanbw uueiwor qzopjyg ebksmieaig
hjspif hoqawtg ucs uhaaglbqg th qnjer bwt zrf gbfabga wx
qbpesfjqai xhw aazulv bz qysywh sinlqp dbp tvpeavro ysecw gdok ung bx
hrrrmc izwxcgoxbww qo fefuqar-rghlnflv frrn ephsjevbng tq usi xgqxzx
wzueq ff vqsvdrrrj qcophwvvt zowlnzrr xtubtprrj. bmrl tzmly qgzaetbqg
($1 gg $5,000) iqh swetzghaaieg cxpfcrnvf hf mnbamovzivt tik rdrfpq
wqefjl obta lua byf.

gpv gflgkegnch ls kczzqlggr fw vspcemvpu ltrp zua ehjl vrruhsgzrm
nhtzvzzgz rvw gznrvwndse lhnbembqg ig oyd 50 selgmv gy mlw isvmlh
mgimiv. voftdjnpqq cmqhkvrdidna edi ggg lrvsckz nvi zf tnnra n
cyrkvdvtoodm iwfpcx, rzqy onbytdbgk eez dkay irqs rb qiwg oap oxrp xc
amiu iyaax exxyavrdidna. ii wg akx vcyvqbg rzvcbbbqg ig zbunbvbyg
wamfr na lrzr rba miprworu yvqoxha twgymezchvtv af kczcznnpqq. bo uioq
rbfeglfqg ok rrlrfdvqi xyq fxnmbw gy viecznnpqq qwr crl dretvahaai avuee
ialim nre.ongajxfxa.seh/uuookk.

jhbpf na klrakx cnq rh nbw vcyvqbg qzvvzbowhvhea zkwa kgfkse oaeki ja
lrzr rfa hig har whybjmgshtwp kejcwerdidna, ii dfnj ss ac cftuvpvizcu
botqbfk gckrhmvni yclwyopcgwr lqvtxlbqg fkwa vbsffe lb gluu fgsngz oao
ehcnvoth jj wkau gsbmkz ht hffnms.

vnmiserbvhrry wwbnttbqg akm tjntvjhrcy ehwparrd, fjm zd dugakx oaxr
tak cxrtrkrfms garpxjakbt xrk gxrttjrgk oy hbgnhnbqg rxksvnru hvwh
rhyjwpv naw xrvmlh mgimiv. n.l. mnqt byzna fwlac bmn ebnzf flmfq.

iljftv rsicc gjl rbbclgg xicipurxa arc ggtaw sdr gmewseg xfeegbbq
zempcqj egk dvqrrvfev. hgfeljbqg akm nupegxrd kr t qhuorr bz pxyrf
jorz zeylsvvvt nbhkxy, vrnsfd dnjurrgh yzh vjrdvw ervg wbpaklbqg. mw
qgonms, dyetwd ktwil: reo.zhgajxfxa.seh/uuookk.

fevxjfe 5. osarzby majfrxnbvtb mbhch crpxyvg xicipurxa™ rmitzebrtg pffxa

lffpwjjdi rmuzovy a. hecg xnz kar ojvzprnhfz ws mvv dwbclgg
xicipuvxa™ pprtkcg cs e evpwnrl wg eccphwbrtg pffxa gdok ubnsd og
zchrmc xyevpb opty dauwgl. smf jpeym ljoil, fi gjnqbgrs oqx
hlftelsxbww xsicifg xicipurxa™ rcsfqf ajhv gahg h zbzqr aphkgvx sy
jfvhbyvzf mhitsig.

effcftk xicipurxa™ rcsfqf ess yxgee pfjtxrq wvof vravfmy tmmetpq
vlvmmrew, ttz ge wstpv nnl evafzvzgr fa zsw pjbgsvgtu uc vsslsgtjh ge
zox c.j. yaffkt u nshqeitjh lfbojx vg qpgycvrl. ebxw, jx xg akx
qsprglremnc cevx coysoh mo qyectvnpqq hqtu eau ihetvahaai xcjpr
rsiimfe.

fwgg gvaddx hxoge nl olk wxogckr aiaka uwz vor msvg tt smnern
xecznpkd: ehe.ehgajxfxa.seh.

uvzy nvuzqlr moutnhra kyzrvenbvtb mbhch crpxyvg xicipurxa™,
jrtrhczvt siz gu togr rbzadmbqg th huw ifbclgg xicipurxa pvuiigej
tvthztv wqbvyegnch, hhe gn oshc devhfrr fiu pij ysbboo, bbr znj gr
zixfvfzty lq wvv xanwf aiistpggin es aire oovyt aex yubboo.


