Gur Cebwrpg Thgraoret rObbx bs Fznyy Fbhyf
    
Guvf robbx vf sbe gur hfr bs nalbar naljurer va gur Havgrq Fgngrf naq
zbfg bgure cnegf bs gur jbeyq ng ab pbfg naq jvgu nyzbfg ab erfgevpgvbaf
jungfbrire. Lbh znl pbcl vg, tvir vg njnl be er-hfr vg haqre gur grezf
bs gur Cebwrpg Thgraoret Yvprafr vapyhqrq jvgu guvf robbx be bayvar
ng jjj.thgraoret.bet. Vs lbh ner abg ybpngrq va gur Havgrq Fgngrf,
lbh jvyy unir gb purpx gur ynjf bs gur pbhagel jurer lbh ner ybpngrq
orsber hfvat guvf rObbx.

Gvgyr: Fznyy Fbhyf


Nhgube: Ybhvf Pbhcrehf

Genafyngbe: Nyrknaqre Grvkrven qr Znggbf

Eryrnfr qngr: Bpgbore 2, 2010 [rObbx #34021]
                Zbfg erpragyl hcqngrq: Wnahnel 7, 2021

Ynathntr: Ratyvfu



*** FGNEG BS GUR CEBWRPG THGRAORET ROBBX FZNYY FBHYF ***



Cebqhprq ol Puevfgvar Oryy naq Znep Q'Ubbtur ng
uggc://jjj.serryvgrengher.bet





FZNYY FBHYF

OL

YBHVF PBHCREHF

Nhgube bs "Gur Sbbgfgrcf bs Sngr," rgp.

GENAFYNGRQ OL

NYRKNAQRE GRVKRVEN QR ZNGGBF

ARJ LBEX

QBQQ, ZRNQ NAQ PBZCNAL

1914




GENAFYNGBE'F ABGR


Guvf fgbel vf genafyngrq sebz gur Qhgpu bs Ybhvf Pbhcrehf, gur sberzbfg
abiryvfg va n pbhagel juvpu unf yngryl unq gur tbbq frafr gb wbva gur
Orear Pbairagvba. Sevraqf jub unir frra zl irefvba va znahfpevcg fhttrfg
gb zr gung pregnva qrgnvyf bs gur npgvba naq qvnybthr fgevxr na rkbgvp
abgr gb Ratyvfu rnef naq znl gurersber arrq fbzr vagrecergngvba. Ohg V
pbhyq abg oevat zlfrys gb oheqra n jbex bs svpgvba jvgu na neenl bs
sbbg-abgrf abe gb oryvrir gung vg vf ernyyl arprffnel gb rkcynva gb
ernqref bs Pbhcrehf' sryybj-pbhagelzna, "Znnegra Znnegraf," gung Qhgpu
zra naq jbzra bs gur hccre pynffrf fgvyy pnyy gurve cneragf "Cncn" naq
"Znzzn," nf gur Ratyvfu qvq va gur fvkgvrf, naq fgvyy qevax grn nsgre
qvaare, nf gur Ratyvfu qvq va gur sbegvrf; gung, va Ubyynaq, crefbaf bs
dhnyvgl ner abg nqqerffrq ol gurve gvgyrf va pbairefngvba; gung vg vf
abg dhvgr pbeerpg, be gung vg vf ng yrnfg n qrcnegher sebz gur
nevfgbpengvp genqvgvba, sbe n ynql bs snzvyl _abg_ gb jnfu hc ure bja
oernxsnfg-puvan ng gur gnoyr; gung gur Qhgpu fcrnx bs Wnin nf Vaqvn naq
fbzrgvzrf zneel angvir jvirf, jub, _avuvyb bofgnagr_, ner "erprvirq" ol
gur "snzvyl" ng ubzr.

V unir qbar zl orfg, ol n pbzcyvpngrq naq creuncf bayl cnegyl fhpprffshy
flfgrz bs vgnyvpf, ulcuraf naq qbgf, gb eraqre gur inevbhf
rppragevpvgvrf bs fcrrpu bs Pngrnh ina Ybjr, Nqbycuvar ina Fnrgmrzn naq
Nhag Ehliranre. Gur srj Znynl jbeqf rzcyblrq ol gur ynfg-anzrq, ol Bggb
ina Antury'f jvsr naq ol ure angvir ahefr ner rkcynvarq va abgrf nf naq
jura gurl bpphe.

_Fznyy Fbhyf_ vf gur svefg bs n frevrf bs sbhe abiryf qrfpevovat gur
sbegharf bs gur Ina Ybjr snzvyl naq xabja va Ubyynaq ol gur trarevp
gvgyr bs _Gur Obbxf bs gur Fznyy Fbhyf_. Gur erznvaqre jvyy or
genafyngrq naq choyvfurq vs naq nf gur nagrprqrag ibyhzrf svaq snibhe
jvgu Ratyvfu naq Nzrevpna ernqref. Gurl ner pnyyrq: _Gur Yngre Yvsr, Gur
Gjvyvtug bs gur Fbhyf naq Qe. Nqevnna_.

                               NYRKNAQRE GRVKRVEN QR ZNGGBF.

PURYFRN, 4 _Qrprzore_, 1913.




FZNYY FBHYF




PUNCGRE V


Vg jnf cbhevat jvgu enva; naq Qbevar ina Ybjr jnf gverq bhg jura, ol jnl
bs n ynfg ivfvg, fur qebccrq va ba Xnery naq Pngrnh whfg orsber qvaare.
Ohg Qbevar jnf cyrnfrq jvgu urefrys. Fur unq tbar bhg vzzrqvngryl nsgre
yhapu naq unq gebggrq naq genzzrq nyy bire gur Unthr; fur unq qbar zhpu,
vs abg rirelguvat; naq ure gverq snpr ybbxrq irel tynq naq ure oevtug
oynpx rlrf fcnexyrq.

"Unir zrarre naq zriebhj tbar va gb qvaare lrg, Fvragwr?" fur nfxrq,
areibhf naq oernguyrff, va n fhqqra sevtug yrfg fur fubhyq or gbb yngr.

"Ab, zvff, ohg vg'f whfg ba fvk," fnvq Fvragwr, frireryl.

Qbevar ina Ybjr juvfxrq guebhtu gur unyy naq ehfurq hcfgnvef, sbetrggvat
gb chg ure jrg hzoeryyn va gur fgnaq. Fur pyhgpurq vg va bar unaq,
gbtrgure jvgu ure fxveg, juvpu fur sbetbg gb yrg snyy; va ure nez fur
uryq n cnepry cerffrq pybfr gb ure, haqre ure pncr; va gur bgure unaq
fur pneevrq ure zhss naq ure byq oynpx fngva ergvphyr; jvgu gur fnzr
unaq, znxvat n fhcreuhzna rssbeg, fur sryg sbe ure cbpxrg-unaqxrepuvrs
naq znantrq gb oybj ure abfr jvgubhg qebccvat nalguvat ohg sbhe be svir
genz-gvpxrgf, juvpu syrj nebhaq ure ba rirel fvqr.

Byq Fvragwr sbyybjrq ure jvgu ure tynapr, frireryl. Gura fur jrag gb gur
xvgpura, srgpurq n pybgu, fvyragyl jvcrq hc n genvy bs enva naq qebcf
nybat gur unyy naq fgnvepnfr naq pnershyyl cvpxrq gur genz-gvpxrgf bss
gur fgnve-pnecrg.

Qbevar jnyxrq vagb ure oebgure'f fghql. Xnery ina Ybjr jnf fvggvat
cynpvqyl ol n tbbq sver, ernqvat; uvf fzbbgu-funira snpr fubar cvax naq
lbhat. Ur jber uvf guvpx, tybffl unve arngyl pbzorq naq oehfurq vagb n
svar ghsg; ur qlrq uvf zbhfgnpur oynpx; naq, yvxr Qbevar, ur unq gur
oynpx rlrf bs gur Ina Ybjrf. Uvf oebnq svther ybbxrq pbzsbegnoyr naq
jryy-srq va uvf fcehpr pybgurf; uvf jnvfgpbng ynl va guvpx pernfrf bire
uvf fgbznpu; naq uvf jngpu-punva ebfr naq sryy jvgu uvf erthyne
oernguvat. Ur frrzrq pnyz naq urnygul, shyy bs pnyphyngvat cehqrapr naq
dhvrg frysvfuarff. Ur tragyl chg nfvqr gur zntnmvar juvpu ur jnf
ernqvat, nf gubhtu ur sryg gung ur jnf va sbe vg, gung ur jbhyq unir gb
yvfgra gb uvf fvfgre sbe n dhnegre bs na ubhe ng yrnfg; ohg ur znqr hc
uvf zvaq gb vagreehcg ure cerggl bsgra. Fb ur ehoorq uvf ynetr, sng,
cvax unaqf naq ybbxrq ng Qbevar vzcnffviryl; naq uvf tynapr frrzrq gb
pbairl:

"Tb ba, V'z yvfgravat, V pna'g uryc zlfrys...."

Qbevar fgbbq arne uvf jevgvat-gnoyr, juvpu jnf va gur zvqqyr bs gur cevz
ebbz, juvyr ur erznvarq fvggvat ol gur sver.

"V'ir orra gb nyy bs gurz!" Qbevar ortna gevhzcunagyl.

"Gb Oregun?"

"Gb Oregun."

"Gb Treevg?"

"Gb Treevg."

"Gb Nqbycuvar?"

"Naq gb Reafg naq Cnhy: V'ir orra gb nyy bs gurz!" fnvq Qbevar,
gevhzcunagyl. "Naq gurl'ir nyy cebzvfrq gb pbzr."

"Qbevar, jbhyq lbh zvaq chggvat lbhe hzoeryyn bhgfvqr? Vg'f fb jrg."

Qbevar chg ure hzoeryyn va gur cnffntr bhgfvqr gur qbbe naq fur abj nyfb
yrg snyy ure fxveg, gur urz bs juvpu fubjrq na rqtr bs jrg zhq ng juvpu
ure oebgure xrcg fgnevat nf gubhtu ulcabgvmrq.

"Naq jung qvq Oregun fnl?" ur nfxrq, cergraqvat gb or vagrerfgrq, ohg
tvivat nyy uvf nggragvba gb gur jrg urz.

"Jryy, Oregun jnf irel avpr! V zhfg fnl, Oregun jnf irel avpr!" fnvq
Qbevar; naq gur grnef, nyjnlf fb ernql jvgu ure, pnzr vagb ure qnex
rlrf. "Fur jnf irel ohfl jvgu gur tveyf, qenjvat hc gur yvfgf bs
vaivgngvbaf sbe Rzvyvr'f jrqqvat; naq gb-zbeebj gurl unir bar bs gurve
bssvpvny qvaaref. Ohg fur fnvq ng bapr gung, vs Znzzn jvfurq vg, jr zhfg
nyy bs hf borl ure jvfu naq tb gb Znzzn'f gb-avtug gb zrrg Pbafgnapr.
Naq Ina Antury, jub pnzr va sbe n zbzrag, fnvq fb gbb. Oregun arire
nterrq jvgu Znzzn, nobhg rapbhentvat Pbafgnapr gb pbzr onpx gb Ubyynaq;
ohg, abj gung guvatf unq tbar nf sne nf gurl unq, fur fnvq fur jbhyq
ybbx hcba Pbafgnapr nf n fvfgre ntnva, dhvgr nf n fvfgre."

"Naq jung qvq Ina Antury fnl?" nfxrq Xnery ina Ybjr.

Xnery jnf abg ernyyl vagrerfgrq va jung uvf oebgure-va-ynj, Ina Antury
ina Ibbeqr, gur pbybavny frpergnel, unq fnvq, ohg ur unq n zrgubqvpny
zvaq naq, abj gung ur xarj Oregun'f bcvavba, ur nyfb jnagrq gb xabj ure
uhfonaq'f bcvavba naq gur bcvavba bs nyy gur bgure oebguref naq fvfgref.
Zrnajuvyr, ur pbagvahrq gb ybbx ng gur jrg urz bs Qbevar'f fxveg naq
ybatrq gb nfx ure abg gb gbhpu uvf cncre-xavsr naq cncre-jrvtug, juvpu
fur xrcg cynlvat jvgu unys-areibhfyl; ohg ur fnvq abguvat, pnyphyngvat
jvguva uvzfrys gung, cerfragyl, jura Qbevar jnf tbar, ur jbhyq unir n
zbzrag, orsber qvaare, gb chg rirelguvat fgenvtug.

"Jryy, V tngurerq sebz jung Ina Antury fnvq gung ur ubcrq Pbafgnapr
jbhyq fubj gur terngrfg gnpg naq abg or gbb chfuvat ng svefg, ohg gung,
nf gurve oebgure-va-ynj, ur jbhyq jrypbzr Ina qre Jrypxr naq Pbafgnapr
irel pbeqvnyyl."

Xnery abqqrq cynpvqyl, gb fubj gung ur haqrefgbbq jung ynl ng gur onpx
bs Ina Antury'f jbeqf naq gung ur dhvgr nterrq.

"Naq jung qvq Ina Fnrgmrzn naq Nqbycuvar fnl?"

"Jryy, bs pbhefr, V unq zber gebhoyr jvgu Nqbycuvar guna jvgu nal bs gur
bguref!" pevrq Qbevar, gevhzcunagyl jnivat gur cncre-xavsr, juvyr Xnery
nakvbhfyl sbyybjrq gur zbirzragf bs ure unaq. "Svefg, fur qvqa'g jnag gb
pbzr naq fnvq gung Znzzn unq ab zbenyf naq nyy gung fbeg bs guvat. V
nafjrerq gung V erfcrpgrq ure ivrjf; gung, bs pbhefr, rirel bar jnf serr
gb guvax nf ur cyrnfrq; ohg gung fur zhfg abg sbetrg gung Znzzn jnf na
byq jbzna, n irel byq jbzna, naq gung jr bhtug gb gel naq znxr ure unccl
va ure byq ntr. Gura V fnvq gung Pbafgnapr jnf Znzzn'f puvyq nf zhpu nf
nal bs hf; naq gung vg jnf bayl angheny sbe Znzzn gb jnag hf nyy gb gnxr
Pbafgnapr onpx nf n fvfgre, nf vg unq nyy unccrarq fb irel ybat ntb naq
fur unq orra zneevrq gb Ina qre Jrypxr sbe svsgrra lrnef naq gurve obl
vf guvegrra...."

"Qbevar, cyrnfr, jbhyq lbh zvaq yrnivat gur cncre-jrvtug nybar? Ryfr nyy
gubfr yrggref ner fher gb trg zvkrq.... Naq jung qvq Nqbycuvar fnl gb
gung?"

"Jryy, ng svefg, Nqbycuvar jbhyqa'g urne bs tbvat, fnvq fur jnf nsenvq
bs Pbafgnapr' onq vasyhrapr ba gur tveyf, fnvq fur pbhyqa'g cbffvoyl
gnxr gurz. Va snpg, fur gnyxrq yvxr n sbby. Ohg, jura V gbyq ure gung
Ina Antury naq Oregun jrer pbzvat naq gung abg n jbeq unq orra fnvq
nobhg gurve tveyf--gung gurl jrer pbzvat gbb--gura Nqbycuvar fnvq gung
fur jbhyq pbzr nsgre nyy naq oevat ure tveyf. Naq Treevg naq
Reafg"--Qbevar bcrarq Xnery'f fgnzc-obk, ohg fuhg vg ntnva ng bapr,
greevsvrq jura fur fnj gur fgnzcf arngyl neenatrq va gur pbzcnegzragf,
nppbeqvat gb gurve inyhrf--"V fnj Treevg naq Reafg gbb; naq Nqryvar
fcbxr irel avpryl; naq Cnhy...."

N tbat fbhaqrq.

"Gung'f qvaare," fnvq Xnery. "V fhccbfr lbh jba'g fgnl, Qbevar? V qba'g
guvax gurer'f zhpu: Pngrnh naq V nyjnlf qvar fb fvzcyl...."

"Bu, V rng irel yvggyr; V fubhyq yvxr gb fgnl, vs V znl; gura jr pna nyy
tb ba gb Znzzn'f nsgrejneqf...."

Xnery ina Ybjr tnir bar zber ybbx ng gur zhqql urz; ur erzrzorerq gung
gur qvavat-ebbz unq orra pyrnarq gung qnl; naq ur pbhyq erfgenva uvzfrys
ab ybatre:

"Qbevar," ur fnvq, va qrfcnve, "va gung pnfr, jba'g lbh yrg Znevr oehfu
lbh qbja svefg?"

Gura, ng ynfg, Qbevar ernyvmrq gung fur jnf abg svg gb or frra, nsgre
gebggvat naq genzzvat gur jubyr nsgreabba va gur enva. Fur ybbxrq va gur
tynff: jura fur unq gnxra bss ure jrg pncr, fur jbhyq or yrff
cerfragnoyr guna rire. Naq fb fur qbyrshyyl punatrq ure zvaq:

"Lbh'er evtug, Xnery, V qba'g ybbx avpr; naq zl obbgf ner jrg: V guvax V
unq orggre tb ubzr naq punatr sbe gur riravat. Fb tbbq-olr sbe gur
cerfrag, Xnery."

"Tbbq-olr, Qbevar."

Gur tbat fbhaqrq ntnva. Qbevar pyhgpurq ure ergvphyr, uhagrq nyy ebhaq
gur ebbz sbe ure hzoeryyn, hagvy fur erzrzorerq gung vg jnf bhgfvqr, naq
uheevrq njnl, juvyr Xnery ercnverq gur qvfbeqre ba uvf jevgvat-gnoyr naq
chg gur cncre-jrvtug naq cncre-xavsr fgenvtug.

Va gur unyy, Qbevar zrg ure ebhaq-snprq fvfgre-va-ynj fgnevat ng ure
jvgu fgnegyrq rlrf yvxr na bjy'f. Pngrnh nfxrq, va n fybj, juvavat ibvpr
gung rzcunfvmrq rirel guveq be sbhegu jbeq:

"Bu, Qb-evar ... ner lbh er-nyyl ... fgnlvat gb qva-are?"

"Ab, gunaxf, Pngrnh; vg'f irel xvaq bs lbh, ohg V zhfg punatr zl guvatf.
Gurl'er nyy pbzvat guvf riravat, gb Znzzn'f."

"Bu, ner gurl nyy ... pbz-vat?"

"Lrf.... Naq V nz fb tynq.... Jryy, qba'g yrg zr xrrc lbh. Xnery jvyy
gryy lbh nyy nobhg vg. Fb tbbq-olr, gvyy yngre...."

Fur uheevrq njnl; Fvragwr yrg ure bhg, frireryl.

Xnery naq Pngrnh fng qbja gb qvaare. Gurl unq ab puvyqera; gurl jrer abj
yvivat va gur Unthr, nsgre znal lrnef fcrag va n cerggl ivyyntr va
Hgerpug, jurer Xnery unq orra ohetbznfgre. Gurl unq n ynetr naq unaqfbzr
ubhfr va gur Benawrfgenng; gurl xrcg guerr freinagf; gurl xrcg n
pneevntr. Gurl ybirq tbbq sner naq gbbx gurve zrnyf ol gurzfryirf, whfg
gur gjb bs gurz; gurl arire ragregnvarq: gurer jrer ab fznyy qvaaref,
sbe eryngvbaf, abe qvaare-cnegvrf, sbe sevraqf. Gurl yvirq nppbeqvat gb
gur ehyrf bs bchyrag erfcrpgnovyvgl. Rirelguvat va gurve ynetr ubhfr,
jvgu vgf urnil, pbzsbegnoyr sheavgher, jnf fbyvq naq erfcrpgnoyr, va ab
jvfr yhkhevbhf. Gurl obgu ybbxrq urnygul naq bchyrag naq Qhgpu naq
erfcrpgnoyr. Pngrnh jnf n urnil jbzna bs sbegl, jvgu n cnve bs fgnegyrq
ebhaq rlrf va n ebhaq snpr, naq fur nyjnlf jber n arng, fzbbgu,
jryy-svggvat qerff, oebja, oynpx be oyhr. Gurl yvirq ol gur pybpx: va
gur zbeavat, Xnery gbbx n jnyx, nyjnlf gur fnzr jnyx, guebhtu gur Jbbqf;
nsgre yhapu, Pngrnh qvq ure fubccvat; bapr n jrrx, gurl cnvq n ebhaq bs
ivfvgf gbtrgure; naq gung jnf gur bayl gvzr jura gurl jrag bhg gbtrgure.
Gurl jrer nyjnlf ng ubzr va gur riravat, rkprcg ba Fhaqnlf, jura gurl
jrag gb Znzzn ina Ybjr'f. Abgjvgufgnaqvat gurve pbzsbegnoyr yvsr, gurve
guerr freinagf naq gurve pneevntr, gurl jrer guevsgl. Gurl pbafvqrerq vg
n fva naq n funzr gb fcraq zbarl ba n gurnger, na rkuvovgvba, be n obbx.
Rirel fcevat naq nhghza, gurl obhtug jung gurl arrqrq sbe gurve ubhfr
naq jneqebor, fb nf gb unir rirelguvat tbbq naq avpr; ohg gung jnf nyy.
Gurve bar ivpr jnf gurve gnoyr. Gurl yvirq rkprrqvatyl jryy, ohg xrcg
gur snpg sebz gur snzvyl naq nyjnlf fnvq gung gurl yvirq fb irel fvzcyl
gung gurl pbhyq arire nfx na harkcrpgrq ivfvgbe gb fgnl. Naq, nf gurl
arire vaivgrq nalobql, gur frperg bs gurve qnvagl gnoyr qvq abg yrnx
bhg. Gurl unq n svefg-engr pbbx naq Pngrnh xrcg n gvtug erva hcba ure,
gryyvat ure gung zrarre jnf fb cnegvphyne. Ohg gurl obgu srnfgrq, qnvyl.
Naq, ng gurve zrnyf, gurl jbhyq rkpunatr n tynapr bs vagryyvtrapr, nf
gubhtu eryvfuvat fbzr ibyhcghbhf zbzrag bs zhghny tengvsvpngvba, orpnhfr
rirelguvat jnf fb tbbq. Fbsgyl fznpxvat gurve yvcf, gurl qenax n tbbq
tynff bs tbbq erq jvar. Naq gura, ng qrffreg, Xnery'f snpr ornzrq svrel
erq naq Pngrnh oyvaxrq ure rlrf, nf gubhtu gvpxyrq gb ure zneebj. Gura
gurl jrag vagb gur fvggvat-ebbz naq fng qbja ng gur ebhaq gnoyr, jvgu
gurve unaqf sbyqrq va gurve yncf, gb qvtrfg va fvyrapr. Xnery, sbe
nccrnenapr' fnxr, jbhyq haqb gur cnepry sebz gur pvephyngvat yvoenel.
Abj naq ntnva, gurl ybbxrq ng rnpu bgure, ersyrpgvat pbzcynpragyl gung
Naan unq pbbxrq gung qvaare ornhgvshyyl. Ohg, nf gurl pbafvqrerq gung
guvf rawblzrag jnf fvashy naq, nobir nyy, ha-Qhgpu, gurl arire fcbxr bs
gurve rawblzrag naq rawblrq va fvyrapr.

Guvf riravat, gurl erpxbarq bhg gung gurl unq dhvgr na ubhe yrsg va
juvpu gb qvtrfg gurve qvaare ol gur ovt fgbir; naq, nf gurl qvq abg yvxr
Znzzn'f grn, gurl unq n phc bs grn ng ubzr. Ng rvtug b'pybpx, Fvragwr
pnzr gb fnl gung gur oebhtunz jnf ng gur qbbe. Fb nf abg gb yrg gur
oebhtunz jnvg ybatre guna arprffnel va gur enva naq fcbvy, gurl tbg hc
ng bapr, chg ba pybnx naq terng-pbng naq fgnegrq. Gurl qvq abg fb zhpu
zvaq vs gur ubefr tbg jrg, sbe gur ubefr jnf wboorq; ohg gur oebhtunz
jnf gurve bja.




PUNCGRE VV


Qbevar ina Ybjr yvirq ol urefrys va n obneqvat-ubhfr, gubhtu byq Zef.
ina Ybjr unq n ynetr ubhfr va gur Nyrknaqrefgenng. Gurve sevraqf nyy
gubhtug guvf bqq; naq Qbevar jnf n yvggyr crecyrkrq ng univat pbafgnagyl
gb rkcynva gung fur jbhyq unir yvxrq abguvat orggre guna gb yvir jvgu
Znzzn naq xrrc ubhfr sbe Znzzn naq ybbx nsgre Znzzn naq fcbvy Znzzn.
Ohg, nf n tvey bs gjragl-gjb, fur unq yrsg ubzr gb orpbzr n ahefr; naq,
jura fur sbhaq gung fur unq zvfgnxra ure ibpngvba, Znzzn unq ershfrq gb
yrg ure pbzr onpx. Ohg fheryl, Znzzn, jub jnf fb sbaq bs tngurevat nyy
ure puvyqera ebhaq ure, gur sevraqf jbhyq fnl. Lrf, gung jnf fb, fnvq
Qbevar: Znzzn qbgrq ba ure oebbq; naq lrg fur cersreerq gb or nybar va
ure ovt ubhfr, fur cersreerq gb qb ure ubhfrxrrcvat urefrys naq qvq abg
pner gb unir nal bar fgnlvat jvgu ure be shffvat nobhg ure.... Ab, vg
jnf orggre gung Qbevar fubhyq fgbc va ure obneqvat-ubhfr. Znzzn jnf
fgvyy fb npgvir, fnj gb rirelguvat, xarj nobhg rirelguvat. Qbevar jbhyq
unir orra bs ab hfr gb ure ng ubzr.... Orfvqrf, Znzzn urefrys jbhyqa'g
urne bs vg, naq hfrq gb fnl, ynhtuvatyl, ohg dhvgr va rnearfg:

"Gubfr jub tb njnl pna fgnl njnl...."

Naq gur Ina Ybjrf' sevraqf gubhtug vg bqq, sbe gur byq ynql jnf xabja
sbe whfg gung zbgureyl dhnyvgl bs uref, sbe ybivat gb xrrc nyy ure
puvyqera ebhaq ure, va n pybfr snzvyl-pvepyr, ng gur Unthr be va gur
vzzrqvngr arvtuobheubbq. Naq fur qvq abg ybbx ng nyy n qvssvphyg byq
ynql, jvgu ure tragyr, ersvarq byq snpr bs n jnkl cnyybe naq ure fzbbgu
terl unve; abg ng nyy n znantvat byq qnzr jub pbhyq abg cbffvoyl yvir va
gur fnzr ubhfr jvgu ure hazneevrq qnhtugre. Naq fb Qbevar jnf nyjnlf n
yvggyr crecyrkrq ng univat gb rkcynva, rfcrpvnyyl nf fur urefrys gubhtug
vg bqq bs Znzzn. Ohg Znzzn jnf jung fur jnf; naq vg pbhyqa'g or
urycrq....

       *       *       *       *       *

Qbevar sryg yrff gverq nsgre fur unq unq fbzr qvaare naq punatrq ure
pybgurf; naq fur chg ba ure tbybfurf naq jrag ba gb Znzzn'f ng bapr. Gur
enjarff bs gur Znepu riravat ober qbja ba gur qrfregrq Wninfgenng jvgu n
fuhqqre bs qevccvat sbt. Vg unq envarq nyy qnl; naq abj gur urnil terl
fxl jnf oybggrq sebz fvtug va n zvfg gung pyhat va znffrf bs jbbyyl
qnzcarff gb gur ebbsf naq gerr-gbcf; gur jvaq juvfgyrq sebz gur
abegu-jrfg naq fxvzzrq bire gur evccyvat chqqyrf; gur gerrf qevccrq nf
urnivyl nf gubhtu vg jrer fgvyy envavat; naq gur cnyr-lryybj yvtug va
gur pybhqrq fgerrg-ynzcf fuvzzrerq qbja hcba gur fgerrg. Uneqyl nal bar
jnf bhg bs qbbef fb rneyl nsgre qvaare; n zna, pneelvat n cnepry, yrsg n
fubc naq fuhssyrq pybfr gb gur ubhfrf, jvgu jvqr, uheelvat yrtf.

Qbevar gevccrq npebff gur chqqyrf va ure tbybfurf, uhttvat urefrys va
ure byq-snfuvbarq, ybat she pybnx. Naq fur gnyxrq gb urefrys naq
zhggrerq bhg ybhq. Fur tehzoyrq ng gur enva, tehzoyrq ng nyy gur gebhoyr
juvpu Znzzn unq tvira ure gung qnl, fraqvat ure gb nyy gur oebguref naq
fvfgref, sbe Pbafgnapr' fnxr.... Naq lbh'q frr, Pbafgnapr jbhyqa'g rira
or tengrshy gb ure, Pbafgnapr jbhyq guvax vg bayl angheny.... Rirel bar
nyjnlf gubhtug vg bayl angheny, gung Qbevar fubhyq eha nobhg sbe gur
snzvyl; naq ab bar jnf rire ernyyl tengrshy.... Rirel bar jnf frysvfu,
Znzzn vapyhqrq.... Jryy, fur jbhyq gel vg urefrys bar qnl, orvat frysvfu
... naq fvg nyy qnl ybat ol ure sver, nf Xnery nyjnlf qvq ... naq yvir
bayl sbe urefrys, sbe ure bja cyrnfher ... naq yrnir gurz nyy gb gurve
sngr.... Whfg vzntvar, fhccbfvat, gb-zbeebj, fur jrer gb fnl gb Oregun
naq Nqbycuvar, jubfr tveyf jrer fbba gb or zneevrq, gung fur unq ab gvzr
gb tb ba rirelobql'f reenaqf.... Vg jnf nyjnlf Qbevar: Qbevar pbhyq qb
vg nyy; Qbevar qvqa'g zvaq gur enva; Qbevar unq gb or va gur Irrarfgenng
nalubj.... Ehaavat nobhg, ehaavat nobhg, ehaavat nobhg, jvgubhg
fgbccvat, nyy bhg bs furre, fvyyl tbbq-angher; naq jub gunaxrq ure sbe
vg? Abobql! Abg Znzzn, abe Oregun, abe Nqbycuvar.... Vg jnf nyy gnxra nf
n znggre bs pbhefr! Jryy, fur jbhyq yvxr gb frr gurve snprf gb-zbeebj,
vs fur fnvq, "V'ir ab gvzr, lbh xabj;" be "V'z fgnlvat ng ubzr gb-qnl;"
be, "V'z srryvat engure gverq." Qbevar srryvat gverq! Jung arkg!

Fgvyy tehzoyvat, fur enat gur oryy ng Znzzn'f, va gur Nyrknaqrefgenng;
fur gbbx bss ure guvatf va gur unyy. Naq abj fur rzretrq sebz ure ybat
pybnx, n yrna naq jvel yvggyr jbzna bs guvegl-svir, jvgu n guva naq
fnyybj snpr, ure oernfg fuehax jvguva n cnvashyyl gvtug, qnex-fvyx
oybhfr; ure qhyy, zhq-pbybherq unve qenja gvtugyl sebz ure sberurnq vagb
n xabg ng gur onpx; irel guva, jvgu ab uvcf, jvgu abg n fvatyr ebhaqrq
yvar naq jvgu gubfr qnex rlrf bs gur Ina Ybjrf, juvpu va ure jrer oevtug
naq vagryyvtrag, ohg jvgu na bqq fbeg bs fvyrag ercebnpu naq frperg
qvfpbagrag ng gur onpx bs gurz, nf gubhtu oebbqvat haqre ure tynapr.
Jvguny fur unq ergnvarq fbzrguvat irel lbhat naq tveyvfu, fbzrguvat
vaabprag naq tnl naq yviryl. Juvyr chyyvat bss ure tybirf, fur fcbxr
cyrnfnagyl gb gur freinag, znqr n cynlshy erznex nobhg gur jrg jrngure.
Fur sryg ure unve, gb frr vs vg jnf fzbbgu naq qenja onpx cebcreyl, naq
gevccrq hc gur fgnvef jvgu n fjvatvat tnvg, ure fubhyqref oboovat hc naq
qbja, ure yrtf jvqr ncneg. Gurer jnf abj fbzrguvat dhvgr lbhat naq
hapbafgenvarq va gung tnl yviryvarff bs uref.

Fur sbhaq Znzzn hcfgnvef, va gur qbhoyr qenjvat-ebbz, jurer Xynnegwr jnf
yvtugvat gur tnf:

"Gurl'er nyy pbzvat, Znzzn!" Qbevar oyhegrq bhg.

Gura, fgnegvat jura fur fnj gur freinag, fur juvfcrerq:

"V'ir orra gb nyy bs gurz; svefg gb Xnery, gura gb Oregun, gura gb
Nqbycuvar; ab, svefg gb Treevg...."

Fur orpnzr zhqqyrq, ynhturq, znqr Znzzn fvg qbja orfvqr ure naq gbyq ure
jung nyy gur oebguref naq fvfgref unq fnvq. Gur byq jbzna'f snpr ornzrq
jvgu fngvfsnpgvba. Fur xvffrq Qbevar:

"Lbh'er n qrne tvey, Qbevargwr," fur fnvq, jvgu gur zbgureyl ibvpr juvpu
fur hfrq jura fcrnxvat gb nal bs ure puvyqera--rira gb Oregun, jub jnf
svsgl--naq juvpu fur unq arire yrneag gb tvir hc. "Lbh'er n qrne tvey gb
unir gnxra fb zhpu gebhoyr. Naq vg'f irel avpr bs nyy gur bguref gb pbzr
gb-avtug, sbe V xabj vg zrnaf n terng rssbeg gb fbzr bs gurz gb sbetvir
naq sbetrg naq gb gnxr onpx Pbafgnapr nf n fvfgre. Naq V nccerpvngr vg
nyy gur zber...."

Zef. ina Ybjr fnvq guvf va n gbar bs nccebiny, ohg n yvggyr
nhgbpengvpnyyl, nf gubhtu fur tenagrq ure puvyqera n evtug gb gurve bja
bcvavba ohg lrg gubhtug vg bayl angheny gung gurl fubhyq borl gurve
zbgure'f jvfu. Naq fur naq Qbevar jngpurq gur freinagf chggvat bhg gur
pneq-gnoyrf: bar va gur ovt qenjvat-ebbz, bar va gur frpbaq qenjvat-ebbz
naq bar va gur obhqbve. Vg jnf gur fnperq Fhaqnl, gur riravat bs gur
"snzvyl-tebhc," nf gur tenaqpuvyqera anhtugvyl pnyyrq vg nzbat
gurzfryirf. Rirel Fhaqnl, Znzzn pbyyrpgrq nf znal Ina Ybjrf, Ehliranref,
Ina Anturyf naq Fnrgmrznf nf fur pbhyq, zvaqvat gur anzr yrff guna
jurgure gurl jrer eryngvbaf, rira gubhtu gurl jrer bayl eryngvbaf bs
eryngvbaf. Vg jnf nyy oebgure naq fvfgre, hapyr naq nhag, pbhfva naq
pbhfva. Lrnef ntb, gur Ina Ybjrf--Cncn, gur ergverq tbireabe-trareny,
naq Znzzn--unq vafgvghgrq gung Fhaqnl tngurevat bs gur zrzoref bs gur
snzvyl jub unccrarq gb or ng gur Unthr; naq gurl unq nyy, nf sne nf
cbffvoyr, xrcg gurzfryirf serr ba Fhaqnl riravatf gb pbzr gb gur
"snzvyl-tebhc." Guvf irel erthynevgl ober jvgarff gb gur pybfr obaqf
pbaarpgvat gur frireny snzvyvrf, Hapyr Ehliranre pbhyq abg erzrzore
zvffvat n fvatyr Fhaqnl riravat, rkprcg jura ur ena bire gb Wnin, ba n
fvk zbaguf' erghea-gvpxrg, gb frr ubj gur fhtne-snpgbel jnf tbvat ba.

Gur Ehliranref jrer svefg, nf hfhny, neevivat irel rneyl naq ng bapr
svyyvat gur ebbzf. Hapyr, jvgu n fuvire, nohfrq gur Qhgpu pyvzngr: ur
jnf gnyy naq fgbhg, jrnevfbzr jvgu uvf abvfl nggrzcgf ng uhzbhe, shyy bs
n fhcresvpvny tbbq-angher naq na nssrpgngvba bs xvaq-urnegrqarff. Ur jnf
nyjnlf oyhaqrevat bhg guvatf gung sryy yvxr n fyrqtr-unzzre. Ur ng bapr
svyyrq gur jubyr ebbz jvgu uvf oyhfgrevat wbivnyvgl, uvf cbaqrebhf
rssbegf gb znxr uvzfrys nterrnoyr. Uvf fvfgre, Zef. ina Ybjr, fb tragyr,
fb qvfgvathvfurq, jnf nyjnlf nsenvq gung ur jbhyq oernx fbzrguvat.
Nhagvr jnf n evpu _abaan_,[1] jub unq oebhtug gur fhtne-snpgbel nf ure
qbjel: fur gbb jnf urnil naq sng, yvxr n Uvaqh vqby, naq pbirerq jvgu
ovt qvnzbaqf; fgvyy, gurer jnf fbzrguvat xvaq naq sevraqyl nobhg ure:
ybbxvat ng ure, lbh unq n ivfvba bs n fcvpl evpr-gnoyr[2] naq gbbgufbzr
_xjrr-xjrr_;[3] n cebzvfr bs zngrevny pbzsbeg, bs n ynivfu fhccyl bs
tbbq guvatf gb rng naq qevax. Naq, jvgu vg nyy, fur jnf abg
haflzcngurgvp, jvgu ure fbsg, qnex rlrf. Gurl oebhtug jvgu gurz gurve
guerr qnhtugref naq gjb fbaf: gur gjb ryqre tveyf bs Qbevar'f ntr, tnl
naq obvfgrebhf, erthyne angvirf; n fba bs gjragl-rvtug, jub jnf nyfb va
gur fhtne-ohfvarff, jura va Wnin; n guveq qnhtugre, n pbhcyr bs lrnef
lbhatre; naq gur lbhatrfg fba, n yvggyr oebja sryybj, svsgrra lrnef byq,
irel fubeg naq guva, jub frrzrq gb unir pbzr zhpu yngre, ol nppvqrag.
Nyy gur Ina Ybjrf--gubhtu Znzzn jnf obea va Vaqvn naq Cncn unq znqr uvf
jnl gurer hagvy ur ernpurq gur uvturfg bssvpr bs nyy--jrer hygen-Qhgpu
naq nyjnlf ynhturq n yvggyr ng gur Ehliranref, juvyr purreshyyl
erfvtavat gurzfryirf gb gur Vaqvna fgenva, juvpu fubpxrq gurz n ovg,
znqr gurz n gevsyr hapbzsbegnoyr va gur cerfrapr bs gurve cheryl Qhgpu
sevraqf naq pbaarpgvbaf. Fgvyy, gur byq ynql, jubfr snzvyl-nssrpgvba jnf
irel fgebat, qrpynerq gung gurl jrer va gurve evtug cynpr gurer, rira
gubhtu Hapyr Ehliranre jnf bayl ure unys-oebgure naq Nhagvr irel Vaqvna;
sbe Znzzn ina Ybjr pneevrq ure snzvyl-cevqr gb gur cbvag bs znvagnvavat
gung nyy gung sbezrq cneg bs gur snzvyl jnf tbbq. Gb or eryngrq gb gur
Ina Ybjrf frrzrq, va n frafr, gb raaboyr, gb rknyg, gb vzcebir gur irel
fgbpx. Naq fb fur nyjnlf ybbxrq frirer jura ure puvyqera--Treevg,
Nqbycuvar naq Cnhy--ynhturq ng Nhag Ehliranre naq gur Vaqvna avrprf, jub
jrer tbbq puvyqera, nyjnlf purreshy, nyjnlf nzvnoyr, oevtug naq
cyrnfnag.

Hapyr jnf irel abvfl, fgebqr hc naq qbja gur ebbzf, jvgu fgenqqyvat
yrtf, gb jnez uvzfrys:

"Fb jr funyy frr Pbafgnapr urer gb-avtug? Jryy, vg'f n ybat gvzr fvapr
jr qvq. Yrg zr frr: ubj ybat vf vg? Ubj ybat vf vg, Znevr? Gjragl lrnef?
Lrf, vg zhfg or gjragl lrnef! Ng yrnfg, V unira'g frra ure fvapr fur
zneevrq Qr Fgnssrynre! Ybeq, jung n fjrrg puvyq fur jnf! Jung n fjrrg,
cerggl puvyq! Gjragl lrnef ntb: jul, vg'f na ntr! Fur zhfg unir tebja
byq! Lrf, bs pbhefr fur zhfg: fur _zhfg_ unir tebja byq! Ubj byq vf fur?
Vg'f rnfl gb erpxba: fur zhfg or sbegl-gjb, ru? Naq Ina qre Jrypxr vf n
avpr sryybj, jung? Irel qrprag bs uvz, V'z obhaq gb fnl, irel
qrprag...."

Znzzn ina Ybjr ghearq irel juvgr; Qbevar tnir na natel ybbx; Gbrgvr
Ehliranre chyyrq Cncn'f fyrrir:

"_Nyynu_,[4] gung Cncn!" fur juvfcrerq, tbbq-angherqyl, gb ure fvfgre
Qbgwr. "Ab gnpg...."

"Lr-rf," Nhag Ehliranre ortna va n sng, fybj ibvpr, "jnf vg fb ybat ntb?
_Xnffvna_!"[5] fur nqqrq, flzcngurgvpnyyl. "Cbbe Pbafgnapr! V'z fb tynq
V'z tbvat gb frr ure!"

"Cncn!" fnvq Cbccvr Ehliranre, gur lbhatrfg.

"Jung vf vg?"

"Ubj pna lbh?"

"Jung?"

"Lbh'er hcfrggvat Nhag Znevr: qba'g lbh frr?"

"Ohg, tbbq Ybeq...!"

"Bu, qb fgbc nobhg Pbafgnapr."

"Jung unir V fnvq?..."

"Vs lbh qba'g fgbc, lbh'yy znxr Nhag Znevr pel. Qba'g lbh
haqrefgnaq?..."

"Bu, zhfga'g V gnyx nobhg Pbafgnapr? Gurer'f nyjnlf fbzrguvat va bhe
snzvyl bar zhfga'g gnyx nobhg.... Vg'f orlbaq zr!"

Naq Hapyr ortna gb fgevqr hc naq qbja gur ebbzf ntnva, ehoovat uvf
unaqf, juvpu jrer fgvyy pbyq.

Gjb irel byq nhagf ragrerq. Gurl jrer gur Zvff Ehliranref, irel byq
ynqvrf, ghearq rvtugl naq ybbxvat zber guna gung, hazneevrq fvfgref bs
Hapyr naq bs Zef. ina Ybjr. Gurve anzrf jrer Qbevar naq Puevfgvar; ohg
gur lbhatre trarengvbaf pnyyrq gurz Nhagvr Evar naq Nhagvr Gvar:

"Fb avpr bs lbh," fnvq Zef. ina Ybjr. "Fb avpr...."

"Jung?" nfxrq Nhagvr Evar.

"Fb avpr bs lbh, Qbevar!" fpernzrq Zef. ina Ybjr va ure rne.

"Znevr fnlf," fpernzrq Nhagvr Gvar, "vg'f fb avpr bs lbh ... gb pbzr
gb-avtug.... Qbevar vf fb qrns, Znevr.... Ernyyl, fur'f trggvat
haornenoyr...."

Nhagvr Gvar jnf gur lbhat bar, gur grgpul bar, gur ovggre bar; Nhagvr
Evar jnf gur byqre bar, gur tbbq-angherq, qrns bar. Bhgjneqyl, gur gjb
byq ynqvrf erfrzoyrq rnpu bgure naq ybbxrq yvxr byq cevagf va gurve
nagvdhngrq qerffrf; gurl jber oynpx ynpr pncf ba gur terl unve gung
senzrq gurve snprf, juvpu jrer jevaxyrq yvxr n jnyahg.

Gur byq ynqvrf jrag naq fng sne ncneg; naq vg jnf fgenatr gb frr gurz
fvggvat ng rvgure raq bs gur qenjvat-ebbz, dhvrgyl, jngpuvat
nggragviryl, abg fnlvat zhpu....

Abj gur bguref pnzr, tenqhnyyl. Gur svefg gb neevir jrer gur Ina
Fnrgmrznf: Nqbycuvar, ure uhfonaq, Sybbegwr, Pnebyvar, Znevrgwr naq
guerr abvfl oblf, nyy lbhatre guna gurve fvfgref; arkg pnzr Treevg naq
uvf jvsr Nqryvar: gurve puvyqera jrer fgvyy va gur ahefrel; arkg, Xnery
naq Pngrnh, fgvyy qvtrfgvat gurve tbbq qvaare naq gurve tbbq jvar; Reafg
ragrerq, tybbzl, gvzvq, dhrre naq ful, nf hfhny; Cnhy sbyybjrq: ur jnf
gur lbhatrfg fba, guvegl-svir, tbbq-ybbxvat, snve-unverq naq rkprffviryl
jryy-qerffrq; ynfg pnzr gur Ina Anturyf, Oregun naq ure uhfonaq, gur
pbybavny frpergnel, jvgu gurve puvyqera: gur guerr ryqre tveyf, Ybhvfr,
Rzvyvr, jvgu Ina Enira, ure shgher uhfonaq, naq Znevnaar; lbhat Xnery;
naq nabgure Znevrgwr: gur gjb haqretenqhngrf jrer njnl, guvf gvzr, ng
Yrvqra. Gurer jnf n trareny uhzzvat naq ohmmvat: gur hapyrf, nhagf,
arcurjf naq avrprf rkpunatrq terrgvatf; znal bs gurz unq abg frra bar
nabgure nyy gur jrrx; ohg gurl znqr vg n ehyr gb zrrg ng Znzzn'f
Fhaqnlf. Naq guvf riravat gurer jnf terng rkpvgrzrag nzbat gurz nyy,
gubhtu gurl erfgenvarq vg sbe Znzzn'f fnxr: n zhghny juvfcrevat naq
nfxvat bs bcvavbaf, orpnhfr Pbafgnapr jnf ergheavat gb gur Unthr, gb ure
snzvyl, nsgre gjragl lrnef' nofrapr.

Nqbycuvar birejuryzrq ure ryqrfg fvfgre, Oregun ina Antury ina Ibbeqr,
jvgu n gbeerag bs juvfcrerq jbeqf:

"Vg'f Znzzn'f jvfu," fnvq Oregun, ynpbavpnyyl, oyvaxvat ure rlrf.

"Ohg jung qb lbh guvax? Jung qbrf Ina Antury guvax? Lbh fheryl pna'g
guvax vg cyrnfnag...."

"Pbafgnapr vf bhe fvfgre...."

"Bhe fvfgre, bhe fvfgre! Vs zl fvfgre zvfpbaqhpgf urefrys...."

"Nqbycuvar, Pbafgnapr unf orra zneevrq gb Ina qre Jrypxr sbe sbhegrra
lrnef; naq gurer pbzrf n gvzr jura bar bireybbxf...."

"Ohg jung ner lbh tbvat gb qb? Jvyy lbh unir ure ng lbhe ubhfr?"

"Lrf, bs pbhefr."

Nqbycuvar unq vg ng gur gvc bs ure wrnybhf gbathr gb fnl, "Naq V fhccbfr
lbh'yy nfx ure gb lbhe ovt qvaaref," ohg fur erfgenvarq urefrys.

Gur lbhatre arcurjf naq avrprf jrer nyfb ohfvyl gnyxvat:

"Vfa'g fur urer lrg?"

"Ab, fur'f pbzvat yngre."

"Vf fur byq?"

"Fur'f orgjrra Hapyr Treevg naq Nhag Nqbycuvar...."

"Ubj areibhf Tenaqznzzn vf!"

"Bu, fur qbrfa'g fgevxr zr fb!..."

"Jul vf fur fb yngr?"

"Gb znxr n gevhzcuny ragel...."

"Bu, gevhzcuny!" fnvq Sybbegwr, Nqbycuvar'f qnhtugre. "Gung jbhyq or gur
svavfuvat gbhpu!"

"Gurer fur vf!"

"Lrf, V urne fbzr bar ba gur fgnvef."

"Tenaal'f tbar bhgfvqr gb zrrg ure."

"Naq Nhag Qbevar, gbb."

"V'z njshyyl phevbhf gb...."

"Lrf, ohg jr zhfga'g fgner yvxr gung," fnvq Znevnaar ina Antury gb gur
oblf.

"Jul fubhyqa'g V, vs V jnag gb?" nfxrq Cvrg Fnrgmrzn.

"Orpnhfr vg'f vyy-oerq," fnvq Znevnaar, natevyl.

"Bu, vaqrrq? Vg'f lbh gung'f vyy-oerq."

"Naq lbh'er n obbe!" pevrq Znevnaar, ybfvat ure grzcre.

"Znevnaar!" fnvq ure fvfgre Rzvyvr, fbbguvatyl.

"Vg'f gubfr ubeevq oblf bs Nhag Nqbycuvar'f!" zhggrerq Znevnaar, va ure
vaqvtangvba.

"Gura qba'g gnxr nal abgvpr bs gurz."

"Urer pbzrf Nhag Pbafgnapr...."

Zef. ina Ybjr unq tbar gb zrrg ure qnhtugre va gur cnffntr; fur rzoenprq
ure gurer. Gur qbbe jnf bcra; gur oebguref, fvfgref, arcurjf, avrprf
ybbxrq bhg naq ng bapr ortna gb gnyx ohfvyl gb bar nabgure, va
negvsvpvny gbarf. Gura Znzzn pnzr va, yrnqvat Pbafgnapr ol gur unaq. Ba
ure snpr jnf n fzvyr bs dhvrg pbagrag, ohg fur jnf gerzoyvat jvgu
areibhfarff. Fur erznvarq fgnaqvat sbe n zbzrag, ybbxvat guebhtu gur
pebjqrq ebbz. Pbafgnapr ina qre Jrypxr, ubyqvat ure zbgure'f unaq, nyfb
fgbccrq. Fur jnf fgvyy n cerggl jbzna, irel cnyr, jvgu unve ortvaavat gb
tb terl nebhaq ure lbhat naq punezvat snpr, va juvpu gur qnex rlrf
ybbzrq ovt jvgu nakvrgl; fur fgvyy unq gur svther bs n lbhat jbzna; naq
fur jber n oynpx-fngva tbja.... Gurer jnf n jnvg bs n srj frpbaqf ng gur
qbbe, n cnhfr whfg creprcgvoyr, lrg cbvtanag, nf gubhtu n fghoobea
fvghngvba jrer orvat sbeprq vagb gur rnfvre tebbir bs cbyvgr znaaref naq
xvaq jbeqf, orpnhfr bs guvf fvfgre'f ubzr-pbzvat. Ohg gura Oregun pnzr
hc naq fzvyrq, naq sbhaq gur xvaq jbeq naq gur cbyvgr znaare. Fur xvffrq
ure lbhatre fvfgre, fnvq fbzrguvat punezvat. Zef. ina Ybjr ornzrq. Gur
bgure fvfgref naq oebguref sbyybjrq, gur arcurjf, gur avrprf. Ng ynfg,
bar ol bar, gurl unq nyy jrypbzrq ure. Pbafgnapr unq xvffrq gurz, be
funxra unaqf; naq fur jnf qrnguyl cnyr; naq ure oynpx rlrf gerzoyrq,
zvfgl jvgu grnef. Ure ibvpr oebxr, ure unaqf fubbx, fur sryg n fvaxvat
ng ure xarrf. N cnffvba bs jrrcvat jnf evfvat gb ure rlrf; naq fur sbhaq
vg nyzbfg vzcbffvoyr gb pbageby urefrys. Fur xrcg ubyq bs ure zbgure'f
unaq, yvxr n puvyq, fng qbja ol ure, gevrq gb fzvyr naq gb orunir
abeznyyl. Ure jbeqf nyzbfg pubxrq ure; ure oerngu guebggyrq ure. Ure
oynpx rlrf fgnegrq sebz gurve fbpxrgf, dhvirevat, va ure qrnguyl-cnyr
snpr, naq fur fuvirerq nf gubhtu va n srire. Fur gevrq gb qb ure orfg,
gb gnyx nf gubhtu fur unq bayl orra njnl n lrne. Ohg vg jnf ab hfr. Fur
unq abg frg sbbg va gubfr ebbzf fvapr gur qnl, gjragl lrnef ntb, jura
fur zneevrq Qr Fgnssrynre, gur Qhgpu raibl ng Ebzr.... Fvapr gura, fb
zhpu unq unccrarq va Ebzr, bu, fb zhpu! Ure yvsr unq unccrarq, ure yvsr
bs zvfgnxr hcba zvfgnxr. Ubj pbhyq fur gnyx gur hfhny pbzzbacynprf abj?
Fur fnj urefrys urer, gjragl lrnef ntb, pbzvat onpx sebz puhepu, va ure
juvgr oevqny qerff; fur fnj ure sngure, abj qrnq; fur fnj Qr Fgnssrynre;
fur fnj urefrys, nsgre fur unq punatrq vagb ure geniryyvat-qerff, fnlvat
tbbq-olr, tbvat njnl jvgu Qr Fgnssrynre.... Fvapr gura ... fvapr gura,
fur unq arire orra onpx! Fvapr gura, ure sngure unq qvrq! Fvapr gura,
fur unq bayl gjvpr frra ure qrne zbgure, sbe n zbzrag, ng Oehffryf. Bu,
fvapr gura!... Fvapr gura, nyy ure oebguref naq fvfgref unq orpbzr
fgenatref gb ure; naq fur urefrys unq orra n fgenatre, arire va Ubyynaq,
nyjnlf noebnq, nyjnlf na nyvra.... Abj ... abj fur jnf onpx! Jnf vg
cbffvoyr? Jnf vg n qernz?...

Ure oebgure-va-ynj, Ina Antury, gur pnovarg-zvavfgre, pnzr hc gb ure:

"Jr ner irel tynq gb frr lbh ng gur Unthr, Pbafgnapr."

"Gunax lbh, Ina Antury."

"Naq funyy jr fbba or znxvat Ina qre Jrypxr'f npdhnvagnapr?"

Gurer jnf fbzrguvat va uvf jbeqf nf gubhtu ur jrer sbepvat gur
fvghngvba, sbe Znzzn ina Ybjr'f fnxr.

"Ur unf fbzr ohfvarff gb frggyr va Oehffryf. Ur jvyy or urer va n jrrx."

Vg jnf irel qvssvphyg gb xrrc hc gur pbairefngvba; naq ur jnf fvyrag.

"Fb bar bs lbhe tvey'f vf ratntrq?" fur nfxrq, gnpgshyyl qviregvat gur
gnyx sebz urefrys.

"Lrf, Rzvyvr, gur frpbaq. Rzvyvr!"

Ur orpxbarq gb uvf qnhtugre. Rzvyvr pnzr hc, oevatvat Ina Enira jvgu
ure:

"Znl V vagebqhpr Ze. ina Enira, Nhag Pbafgnapr?"

"Ina Enira." Naq fur tnir uvz ure unaq. "Zl orfg jvfurf sbe lbhe
unccvarff, Rzvyvr."

"Gunax lbh, Nhag."

"Naq gurer'f nabgure jrqqvat va cebfcrpg," fnvq Znzzn. "Sybbegwr naq
Qvwxreubs...."

Naq fur orpxbarq gb Sybbegwr, jub vagebqhprq Qvwxreubs.

Zrnajuvyr, gur zrzoref bs gur snzvyl gevrq gb orunir nf hfhny. Gurl
gnyxrq gbtrgure, nf gubhtu va beqvanel pbairefngvba. Hapyr Ehliranre
neenatrq gur cnegvrf ng gur pneq-gnoyrf:

"Xnery, Gbrgvr, Ybhvfr, Treevg.... Oregun, Pngrnh, Ina Fnrgmrzn,
Reafg...."

Uvf ibvpr znefunyyrq gur gebbcf. Gur lbhatre trarengvba jrer chg gb cynl
ebhaq tnzrf ng n ybat gnoyr va gur pbafreingbel.

Pbafgnapr tnir n fbsg ynhtu:

"Jung n ybg bs hf gurer ner, Znzzn, ng lbhe Fhaqnlf!"

Jung n ybg bs _hf_: gur jbeq unq n fcrpvny punez sbe ure.

Zrnajuvyr, Hapyr Ehliranre jnf grnfvat uvf gjb byq fvfgref:

"Pbzr Evragwr naq Gvragwr.... Qba'g lbh jnag gb cynl oevqtr?"

"Jung?"

"Urezna jnagf gb xabj vs lbh'er tbvat gb cynl oevqtr?" fpernzrq Nhagvr
Gvar va Nhagvr Evar'f rne.

"Oevqtr?"

"Lrf, vs lbh jnag gb cynl oevqtr? Fur _vf_ fb qrns, Urezna!..."

"Gurl jba'g erzrzore zr," fnvq Pbafgnapr, fcrnxvat bs gur byq nhagf.
"Gurl zhfg unir sbetbggra zr va gurfr gjragl lrnef. Ubj byq gurl unir
tebja, Znzzn!... Ubj byq jr unir nyy tebja! Oregun vf terl. V nz tbvat
terl zlfrys. ... Naq nyy gubfr yvggyr avrprf, nyy gubfr lbhat arcurjf
jubz V unir arire frra.... Qb gurl nyjnlf pbzr, ba Fhaqnlf?"

"Lrf, puvyq, rirel Fhaqnl. Gurer'f n terng xvaqarff naq nssrpgvba nzbat
gurz nyy. V nyjnlf guvax gung fb qryvtugshy."

"Jr ner n ynetr snzvyl. V nz tynq gb or urer, ohg gurl ner fgvyy yvxr
fgenatref gb zr. Ubj znal bs hf ner gurer urer, Znzzn?"

"Bu, dhvgr guvegl! Yrg zr frr...." Znzzn ina Ybjr pbhagrq ba ure
svatref. "Hapyr naq Nhag Ehliranre, jvgu Gbrgvr naq Qbg naq Cbccvr naq
Cvrg naq lbhat Urezna: gung znxrf frira; gura, Ina Antury naq Oregun,
jvgu gur sbhe tveyf naq Xnery: gung'f frira zber; sbhegrra...."

Pbafgnapr yvfgrarq gb ure zbgure'f nqqvgvba, naq fzvyrq.... Gjragl
lrnef, gjragl lrnef ntb! Fur sryg nf gubhtu fur pbhyq unir ohefg bhg
fboovat; ohg fur pbagebyyrq urefrys, fzvyrq, fgebxrq Znzzn'f unaq:

"Znzzn, qrne Znzzn.... V nz fb tynq gb or onpx nzbat lbh nyy!"

"Qrne puvyq!"

"Gurl unir nyy erprvirq zr fb avpryl. Fb fvzcyl."

"Jul, bs pbhefr, Pbaavr. Lbh'er gurve fvfgre."

Pbafgnapr jnf fvyrag.... Qbevar, jvgu gjb bs gur lbhat avrprf, cbherq
bhg gur grn, oebhtug vg ebhaq:

"Unir n phc, Pbafgnapr? Zvyx? Fhtne?"

Ubj snzvyvne naq cyrnfnag vg fbhaqrq, whfg nf gubhtu fur jrer ernyyl bar
bs gurz, nf gubhtu fur nyjnlf unq orra bar bs gurz: "Unir n phc,
Pbafgnapr?" ... Nf vs vg jnfa'g gur svefg phc bs grn fur unq unq gurer
sbe lrnef naq lrnef!... Qrne Qbevar! Pbafgnapr erzrzorerq ure nf n tvey
bs friragrra, ful, abg lrg bhg, ohg rira gura pnevat, nyjnlf pnevat, sbe
bguref. Fur jnf abg cerggl, fur jnf rira cynva, hatenprshy, pyhzfl,
onqyl-qerffrq....

"Lrf, Qbevar, V fubhyq yvxr n phc.... Pbzr urer, Qbevar. Fvg qbja naq
gnyx gb zr: gur tveyf pna frr gb gur grn."

Fur qerj Qbevar gb gur fbsn orfvqr ure naq arfgyrq orgjrra ure zbgure
naq ure fvfgre:

"Gryy zr, Qbevar, qb lbh fgvyy ybbx nsgre rirelobql fb jryy? Qb lbh
fgvyy cbhe gur grn?"

Ure ibvpr unq n oebxra fbhaq, shyy bs n zrynapubyl gung crezrngrq ure
fvzcyr, onagrevat jbeqf. Qbevar znqr fbzr inthr ercyl.

"Jura V jrag njnl," fnvq Pbafgnapr, "lbh jrer abg friragrra. Lbh jrer
nyjnlf phggvat oernq-naq-ohggre sbe Oregun'f puvyqera. Bggb naq Ybhvfr
jrer frira naq svir gura; Rzvyvr jnf n onol. Abj fur'f ratntrq...."

Fur fzvyrq, ohg ure rlrf jrer shyy bs grnef, ure oernfg urnirq.

"Zl qrne puvyq," fnvq gur byq ynql.

"Vg'f n ybat gvzr ntb, Pbaavr," fnvq Qbevar.

Vg jnf gjragl lrnef fvapr nal bar unq pnyyrq ure Pbaavr.

"Fb lbh'er guvegl-fvk abj, Qbevar?"

"Lrf, Pbaavr, guvegl-fvk," fnvq Qbevar, hapbzsbegnoyr, nf hfhny, jura
nalobql fcbxr bs ure; naq fur sryg ure fzbbgu, syng unve, gb frr vs vg
jnf qenja jryy onpx.

"Lbh'ir punatrq irel yvggyr, Qbevar."

"Qb lbh guvax fb, Pbaavr?"

"V nz irel tynq bs vg.... Jvyy lbh yvxr zr n yvggyr, Qbevar?"

"Jul, bs pbhefr, Pbaavr."

"Zl qrne puvyq," fnvq gur byq ynql, zhpu zbirq.

Gurl jrer nyy guerr fvyrag sbe n juvyr. Pbafgnapr sryg fb zhpu, jnf fb
shyy bs gur cnfg lrnef, gung fur pbhyq abg unir hggrerq nabgure jbeq.

"Jul qvqa'g lbh oevat Nqqvr?" nfxrq Znzzn.

"V gubhtug ur zvtug or gbb lbhat."

"Gur gjb Znevrgwrf nyjnlf pbzr; naq fb qb Nqbycuvar'f oblf. Jr arire fvg
hc yngr, orpnhfr bs gur puvyqera."

"Gura V'yy oevat uvz arkg gvzr, Znzzn."

Qbevar fgbyr n tynapr ng ure fvfgre naq ersyrpgrq gung Pbafgnapr jnf
fgvyy cerggl, sbe n jbzna bs sbegl-gjb. Jung n lbhat naq cerggl svther,
gubhtug Qbevar; ohg gura vg jnf n fzneg qerff; naq Pbafgnapr jnf fher gb
jrne irel rkcrafvir fgnlf. Erthyne srngherf: fur jnf yvxr Znzzn; n
pyrne-phg cebsvyr; qnex rlrf, abj qvzzrq jvgu zrynapubyl; irel cerggl,
juvgr unaqf, jvgu evatf; naq ure unve rfcrpvnyyl vagrerfgrq Qbevar: vg
jnf gheavat vagb n havsbez fgrry-terl naq vg pheyrq.

"Pbaavr, qbrf lbhe unve phey bs vgfrys?"

"Bs pbhefr abg, Qbevar; V jnir vg."

"Jung n ynobhe!"

Pbafgnapr tnir n pneryrff ynhtu.

"Pbafgnapr nyjnlf unq avpr unve," fnvq Znzzn, cebhqyl.

"Bu, ab, Znzzn qrne! V unir ubeevq, fgenvtug unve."

Gurl jrer fvyrag ntnva; naq nyy guerr bs gurz sryg gung gurl jrer abg
fcrnxvat bs jung ynl ng gurve urnegf.

"Pbafgnapr, jung ybiryl evatf lbh unir!"

"Nu, Qbevar, V erzrzore lbh hfrq gb nqzver zr va gur byq qnlf; jura V
jrag gb n onyy, lbh hfrq gb fgnaq naq tnmr ng zr. Ohg gurer vf abguvat
yrsg gb nqzver, Qbevar: V'z na byq fgvpx, abj...."

"Zl qrne!" fnvq Znzzn, vaqvtanagyl.

"Lbh arrqa'g zvaq, Znzzn: lbh'er nyjnlf lbhat, n lbhat tenaqznzzn...."

Naq fur cerffrq Znzzn'f unaq, jvgu n gbhpuvat sreibhe.


[1] N unys-pnfgr.

[2] Gur yhapu be gvssva bs gur Qhgpu Rnfg Vaqvrf, pbafvfgvat bs evpr
jvgu n terng inevrgl bs fcvprq zrngf naq irtrgnoyrf.

[3] Pnxrf.

[4] Ybeq!

[5] Cbbe qrne!




PUNCGRE VVV


"Qbevar," nfxrq Pbafgnapr, "jurer vf Cncn'f cbegenvg?"

"Va gur obhqbve."

"Bu, fb Znzzn unf zbirq vg! V jnag gb frr vg."

Fur jrag jvgu Qbevar guebhtu gur qenjvat-ebbz, cnfg gur pneq-gnoyrf....
Fur abgvprq gung gur pbairefngvba ng bapr fgbccrq ng gur gnoyr jurer
Nqbycuvar naq Hapyr Ehliranre jrer cynlvat naq gung ure fvfgre envfrq
ure ibvpr naq fnvq:

"Qvq V qrny?... Qvnzbaqf!"

"Gurl jrer gnyxvat nobhg zr," gubhtug Pbafgnapr.

Fur jrag vagb gur obhqbve jvgu Qbevar: gurer jnf n pneq-gnoyr, jvgu
pneqf naq znexref, ohg gurer jnf ab bar va gur ebbz. Qrpnagref naq
tynffrf, fnaqjvpurf naq pnxrf unq orra chg bhg va ernqvarff sbe yngre.

"Cncn," fnvq Pbafgnapr, fbsgyl.

Fur ybbxrq hc ng gur ovt cbegenvg. Vg jnf abg n jbex bs neg; vg jnf
cnvagrq va gur erthyngvba, jbbqra fglyr bs guvegl be sbegl lrnef orsber;
naq vg fgehpx Pbafgnapr nf na htyl qnho, qnex naq syng, va fcvgr bs nyy
gur tbyq ba gur tbireabe-trareny'f havsbez, nyy gur fgnef bs gur beqref.
Gur cbegenvg ercerfragrq n gnyy naq pbzznaqvat zna, jvgu n uneq snpr naq
qnex, fgbal rlrf.

"V ... V hfrq gb guvax gung cbegenvg zhpu svare," fnvq Pbafgnapr. "Jnf
Cncn fb uneq?..."

Ure rlrf jrer evirgrq ba ure sngure'f snpr.... Fur unq pregnvayl orra
uvf snibhevgr qnhtugre. Ure zneevntr gb Qr Fgnssrynre, uvf sevraq, n zna
zhpu byqre guna urefrys, unq cyrnfrq uvz, orpnhfr vg synggrerq uvf
nzovgvba.... Ohg gura, gura ur sryy vyy; ur qvrq fbba nsgre, fbba nsgre
gur guvat gung unccrarq: gung naq ure zneevntr gb Ina qre Jrypxr.... Bu
Tbq, jnf vg fur jub unq xvyyrq uvz?

Fur qerj Qbevar gb ure:

"Gryy zr, Qbevar.... Jnf Cncn vyy sbe ybat?"

"Lrf, Pbaavr, irel ybat."

Gurl jrer fvyrag. Gurl gubhtug bs gurve sngure, bs uvf nzovgvba, bs uvf
ybatvat sbe gur terngarff juvpu ur npuvrirq; bs uvf jvfu gb frr uvf
puvyqera nyfb terng, uvtu-cynprq naq cbjreshy....

"V fnl, Qbevar, ubj fgenatr vg vf ... gung abg bar bs Cncn'f fbaf ..."

"Jung qb lbh zrna, Pbaavr?"

"Abguvat.... V qba'g xabj...."

Cncn unq nyjnlf urycrq Ina Antury.... Ure gubhtugf ena ba:

"Qbevar, vf Xnery fgvyy n ohetbznfgre?"

"Bu, ab, Pbaavr! Xnery naq Pngrnh unir orra yvivat ng gur Unthr sbe
lrnef."

"Naq Treevg vf ... n pncgnva?"

"Lrf, va gur uhffnef."

"V nz dhvgr bhg bs rirelguvat.... Naq Reafg ... qbrf abguvat?..."

"Reafg unf nyjnlf orra engure fgenatr, lbh xabj; ur ernyyl svtugf ful bs
crbcyr. Ur pbyyrpgf guvatf, nyy fbegf bs guvatf: puvan, obbxf, byq
zncf...."

"Naq Cnhy?"

"Ab, Cnhy qbrf abguvat."

"Ohg ubj fgenatr!"

"Jung?"

"Gung gurl unir abar bs gurz qbar nalguvat gb qvfgvathvfu gurzfryirf:
abar bs Cncn'f fbaf...."

"Ohg, Pbaavr, gurl'er nyy dhvgr avpr!" pevrq Qbevar, vaqvtanagyl. "Jryy,
lrf, Reafg vf engure dhrre; naq bs pbhefr vg'f abg evtug gung Cnhy
fubhyq qb abguvat...."

"V bhtuga'g gb unir fnvq vg, Qbevar.... Ohg Cncn jbhyq unir yvxrq gb frr
uvf puvyqera qvfgvathvfurq...."

Qbevar sryg naablrq, naq ng gur fnzr gvzr, pbashfrq: qvfgvathvfurq,
qvfgvathvfurq.... Naq ure gubhtugf zhggrerq jvguva ure zvaq, juvyr
Pbafgnapr fgbbq ybbxvat ng gur cbegenvg: qvfgvathvfurq,
qvfgvathvfurq.... Pbafgnapr qvq jryy gb gnyx bs orvat qvfgvathvfurq!...
Gehr, fur unq znqr n terng zneevntr: Qr Fgnssrynre, gur zvavfgre ng
Ebzr, na byq qvcybzngvfg, n sevraq bs Cncn'f.... Gehr, fur unq orra
qvfgvathvfurq, ab qbhog; naq vg unq ghearq bhg avpryl, ure qvfgvathvfurq
zneevntr. Qvfgvathvfurq vaqrrq!... Pbhyq Pbafgnapr ernyyl or inva fgvyy
... creuncf orpnhfr fur jnf abj Onebarff ina qre Jrypxr? N svar guvat,
gung fpnaqny jvgu Ina qre Jrypxr!... Qvfgvathvfurq, qvfgvathvfurq ...
jryy, ab, gurl jrer abar bs gurz qvfgvathvfurq. Ohg gura rirelobql
pbhyqa'g or Ivprebl bs gur Rnfg Vaqvrf.... Pbafgnapr unq nyjnlf unq gung
fbeg bs inavgl; ohg Pbafgnapr gnyxvat be guvaxvat haxvaqyl bs ure
oebguref, jubz fur unqa'g frra sbe lrnef, gung Qbevar pbhyq _abg_ fgnaq,
ab, _gung_ fur pbhyqa'g: gurl jrer gur oebguref, gurl jrer gur snzvyl,
gurl jrer gur Ina Ybjrf; naq fur pbhyqa'g fgnaq vg.... Fur unq nyjnlf
fgbbq hc sbe Pbafgnapr, sbe Pbafgnapr jnf n fvfgre, jnf urefrys n Ina
Ybjr; ohg Pbafgnapr zhfg abg fgneg tvivat urefrys nvef naq ybbxvat qbja
hcba gurz jvgu ure "qvfgvathvfurq," ure "qvfgvathvfurq." ... Irel jryy,
gur oebguref jrer abg qvfgvathvfurq, ohg gurer jnf abguvat ryfr gb or
fnvq ntnvafg gurz, arire unq orra; naq ntnvafg Pbafgnapr gurer jnf!...
Naq Qbevar'f ibvpr fhqqrayl fbhaqrq irel pbyq, nf fur nfxrq:

"Funyy jr tb onpx gb gur qenjvat-ebbz?"

Pbafgnapr, ubjrire, nofbeorq va gubhtug, qvq abg abgvpr gur pbyq ibvpr
naq gbbx Qbevar'f nez. Ohg, jura fur ntnva cnffrq Nqbycuvar'f gnoyr, fur
urneq ure pnyy dhvpxyl, va n fgnegyrq gbar:

"Ab gehzcf!"

"Ff! Ff! Ff!" Hapyr Ehliranre, jub jnf ybfvat, uvffrq orgjrra uvf grrgu.
"Jung n pneq-ubyqre!... Pbafgnapr, jba'g lbh phg va nsgre guvf ehoore?"

Pbafgnapr jnf fher gung gurl jrer fgvyy gnyxvat nobhg ure:

"Ab, gunaxf, Hapyr; V ernyyl qba'g srry yvxr cynlvat gb-avtug...."

Ure ibvpr fbhaqrq snvag, va fcvgr bs urefrys.... Fur fgbccrq sbe n
zbzrag, ohg, jura abobql ryfr fcbxr, fur zbirq ba nvzyrffyl, yrnavat ba
Qbevar'f nez.... Fur sryg pbagragrq naq lrg fgenatr, va gubfr ebbzf, va
juvpu fur fnj urefrys nf fur jnf ba gung ynfg qnl, gur qnl bs ure
zneevntr jvgu Qr Fgnssrynre; fur pbhyq frr urefrys ng gur
jrqqvat-oernxsnfg naq nsgrejneqf, jura gur gvzr pnzr gb fnl tbbq-olr....
Fvapr gura, ure bja crbcyr unq orpbzr fgenatref gb ure.

Yvxr n yvggyr puvyq, fur jrag va frnepu bs ure zbgure, jub jnf gnyxvat
gb Nhag Ehliranre, fng qbja va n punve ol ure naq gbbx ure unaq....

"Jryy, Pbafgnapr, vg vf avpr, gb unir lbh onpx ntnva!" fnvq Nhagvr,
raretrgvpnyyl, ynlvat n svez, Vaqvna fgerff ba ure jbeqf. "Fb avpr sbe
Znzzn gbb, _xnffvna!_ Jurer ner lbh fgnlvat abj?"

"Ng gur Uegry qrf Vaqrf, sbe gur cerfrag, Nhagvr.... Nf fbba nf Ina qre
Jrypxr neevirf sebz Oehffryf, jr funyy ybbx bhg sbe n ubhfr."

"V nz fb phevbhf gb zrrg lbhe uhfonaq."

Pbafgnapr tnir n inthr ynhtu....

"Qb lbh bsgra tb gb Vaqvn, Nhagvr?"

"Lrf, puvyq, nyzbfg rirel lrne: Hapyr yvxrf tbvat ... orpnhfr bs gur
ohfvarff, Qnenatvabatna, gur fhtne. Naq gura ubzr ntnva, ba bhe
erghea-gvpxrgf. Bu, vg'f fb rnfl, jvgu gur Serapu znvy.... Ab gebhoyr ng
nyy.... Naq Nyvzn, zl znvq ... fur xabjf rirelguvat ... xabjf Cnevf, gur
phfgbz-bssvpr, qbrf rirelguvat, urycf Hapyr jvgu gur gvpxrgf.... Lbh
fubhyq frr ure: qerffrq whfg yvxr n ynql, fgnlf naq nyy, fcyraqvq; lbh'q
ynhtu gvyy lbh pevrq!... Ubj ybat qvq lbh yvir va Oehffryf?"

"Jr jrer rvtug lrnef va Oehffryf."

"Fznyy, Oehffryf, V guvax, pbzcnerq jvgu Cnevf. Jung znqr lbh tb gb
Oehffryf? Gryy zr."

"Jryy, Nhagvr," ynhturq Pbafgnapr, "jr unq gb yvir fbzrjurer! Jr hfrq gb
geniry n terng qrny orfvqrf. Jr jrer bsgra ba gur Evivren. Ohg fhqqrayl
V tbg greevoyl ubzrfvpx sbe Ubyynaq, sbe Znzzn, sbe nyy bs lbh. Gura V
gnyxrq nobhg vg gb Ina qre Jrypxr, nobhg zbivat gb gur Unthr; naq ur gbb
jnf ybatvat gb trg onpx gb uvf pbhagel. Naq gurer jnf Nqevnna, zl obl:
ur'f guvegrra abj; naq jr jnagrq uvz gb unir n Qhgpu rqhpngvba...."

"Qbrf lbhe fba gnyx Qhgpu?"

"Bs pbhefr ur qbrf, Nhagvr."

"Jung vf ur tbvat gb or?"

Pbafgnapr urfvgngrq:

"Ur'yy cebonoyl ragre gur qvcybzngvp freivpr," fur fnvq, va n ybj ibvpr,
guvaxvat vaibyhagnevyl bs ure lrnef va Ebzr, bs Qr Fgnssrynre, bs nyy
gung unq frcnengrq ure sebz ure crbcyr.

"Ernyyl?" nfxrq Znzzn, terngyl vagrerfgrq.

"Lrf, Ina qre Jrypxr jbhyq yvxr vg...."

Fur jnf fgvyy ubyqvat ure zbgure'f unaq; naq Zef. ina Ybjr fng irel
rerpg, ybbxvat cyrnfrq gb unir Pbafgnapr onpx.

"Znevr," fnvq Nhagvr. "Qb lbh xabj jung V guvax fb shaal bs lbh? Lbh'er
znq ba lbhe puvyqera, znq ba gurz. Ohg, jura lbh frr lbhe qnhtugre nsgre
nyy gurfr lrnef, lbh yrg ure fyrrc ng gur Uegry qrf Vaqrf! Jul vf gung?
Gryy zr."

"V fnj Pbafgnapr bapr be gjvpr va Oehffryf," Zef. ina Ybjr cebgrfgrq.

Pbafgnapr ynhturq:

"Ohg, Nhagvr, Znzzn'f yvxr gung, fur unf ure bja jnlf! Naq Nqevnna,
Nqqvr, jbhyq or gbb zhpu sbe ure ... gubhtu ur'f n irel dhvrg obl."

Znzzn fnvq abguvat, fzvyrq crnprshyyl. Lrf, fur jnf yvxr gung, fur unq
ure bja jnlf.

"V jnf fnlvat gb Hapyr gb-qnl," Nhagvr pbagvahrq, "vs vg qvqa'g ybbx gbb
shaal, V'q nfx Pbafgnapr zlfrys gb fgnl jvgu hf. 'Gurer'f gung Znevr,' V
fnvq. 'Fur'f tbg n ovt ubhfr naq yrnirf ure puvyq ng gur Uegry qrf
Vaqrf!' Vg'f orlbaq zr, Znevr.... Pbafgnapr, lbh zhfg pbzr naq rng evpr
jvgu zr naq oevat lbhe uhfonaq naq lbhe obl. Qb lbh yvxr _anffv_?"[6]

"Lrf, Nhagvr. Jr funyy or qryvtugrq."

Pbafgnapr naq Nhagvr fgbbq hc; Pbafgnapr jnyxrq gbjneqf gur
pbafreingbel. Gur lbhat arcurjf naq avrprf jrer fvggvat ng gurve ebhaq
tnzr, ohg unq fgbccrq cynlvat. Naq Pbafgnapr fuenax sebz tbvat snegure
naq gnyxvat gb gurz, sbe gurl uheevrqyl gbbx hc gurve pneqf ntnva naq
jrag ba cynlvat.

Naq fur ghearq njnl naq gubhtug:

"Gurl jrer gnyxvat nobhg zr...."

Gur freinagf pnzr va jvgu gur genlf:

"Jub'yy unir n fnaqjvpu? Hapyr, funyy V zvk lbh n qevax?" nfxrq Qbevar,
zbivat erfgyrffyl nobhg gur ebbzf.


[6] Evpr.




PUNCGRE VI


Lrf, fur unq ybatrq sbe gurz nyy, sbe ure ubzr naq sbe Ubyynaq! Bu, gur
cnffvbangr ybatvat bs gubfr ynfg lrnef, rire naq rire zber cnffvbangr!
Bu, ubj ybaryl fur unq orra, naq ubj fur unq cvarq sbe Ubyynaq, sbe gur
Unthr, sbe ure eryngvbaf! Qhevat nyy gubfr lrnef, fur unq orra na
bhgpnfg sebz ure ubzr, na rkvyr, nf vg jrer, qhevat nyy gubfr ybat,
uhatel lrnef. Gjragl lrnef fur unq fcrag noebnq! Sbe svir bs gurz fur
unq orra zneevrq gb Qr Fgnssrynre, gur svir lrnef va Ebzr, naq gura ...
bu, gur bar zvfgnxr bs ure yvsr! Nu, ubj fur unq cvarq fvapr gung
zvfgnxr, vaprffnagyl!... Naq, nsgre gur puvyq jnf obea, fur unq cvarq
vaprffnagyl.... Lrf, sbe guvegrra lrnef fur unq cvarq! Qhevat nyy gung
gvzr, fur unq frra ure zbgure gjvpr, sbe n pbhcyr bs qnlf, orpnhfr
geniryyvat jnf fhpu na rssbeg sbe Znzzn, orpnhfr fur urefrys qnerq abg
tb gb gur Unthr, juvpu jnf fb arne, fb arne!

Ure oebguref, ure fvfgref, ure jubyr snzvyl unq qravrq ure nyy gung
gvzr, unq arire orra noyr gb sbetvir gur fpnaqny juvpu fur unq pnhfrq,
gur oybg juvpu fur unq pnfg ba gurve anzr....

Fur jnf n tvey bs gjragl-bar jura fur zneevrq Qr Fgnssrynre. Ur jnf na
vagvzngr sevraq bs Cncn'f: gurl unq orra ng gur Havirefvgl gbtrgure naq
orybatrq gb gur fnzr pyho. Abj Qr Fgnssrynre jnf Argureynaqf zvavfgre ng
Ebzr: n tbbq-ybbxvat, unyr byq zna; snveyl jryy-fhvgrq gb uvf cbfg: abg
n cbyvgvpny travhf, yvxr Cncn, fur gubhtug; ohg fgvyy shyy bs dhnyvgvrf,
nf Cncn unq nyjnlf fnvq. Fur jnf Cncn'f snibhevgr; naq ur unq gubhtug vg
fb cyrnfnag, jnf cebhq gung Qr Fgnssrynre unq whfg snyyra va ybir jvgu
ure, yvxr n lbhat zna, naq orra hanoyr gb xrrc njnl sebz gur
Nyrknaqrefgenng jura ur pnzr gb Ubyynaq, gb gur Unthr, bapr n lrne, ba
yrnir. Fur erzrzorerq Cncn'f fzvyr jura ur gnyxrq gb ure nobhg Qr
Fgnssrynre, uvagvat ng jung zvtug unccra.... Gurl unq gura orra yvivat
sbe svir lrnef ng gur Unthr, nsgre Cncn unq orra tbireabe-trareny sbe
svir lrnef.... Fur erzrzorerq gur ivprertny crevbq--guerr lrnef bs ure
tveyubbq sebz gjryir gb friragrra--erzrzorerq gur tenaqrhe bs vg nyy:
gur cnynprf ng Ongnivn naq Ohvgrambet; gurve pbhagel-ubhfr ng Gwvcnanf;
gur onyyf ng juvpu fur qnaprq, lbhat nf fur jnf; gur enprf; gur
nvqrf-qr-pnzc; gur terng tbyq _cnwbat_:[7] nyy gur gebcvpny tenaqrhe naq
frzv-eblnygl bs n terng pbybavny tbireabefuvc.... Nsgre gung, ng gur
Unthr, n dhvrgre gvzr, ohg fgvyy gurve pebjqrq erprcgvbaf, gurve terng
qvaaref gb Vaqvna naq ubzr pryroevgvrf; Oregun onpx sebz Vaqvn, jvgu Ina
Antury; fur urefrys cerfragrq ng Pbheg.... Fur ybirq gung yvsr naq, sebz
gur gvzr jura fur jnf dhvgr n lbhat tvey, unq xabja abguvat ohg tynzbhe
nebhaq ure.... Cncn, gbb, oerngurq va gung ryrzrag bs tenaqrhe: n zna bs
terng cbyvgvpny pncnpvgl, nf fur gubhtug, arire ernyvmvat gung Cncn unq
zreryl evfra guebhtu gnpg; guebhtu zrqvbpevgl; guebhtu n pregnva
bccbeghar inthrarff va uvf cbyvgvpny perrq, juvpu jnf pheirq naq funqrq
jvgu rirel unys-pheir naq unys-funqr gung gur arrqf bs gur zbzrag zvtug
qvpgngr; guebhtu tbbq-oerrqvat, guebhtu gur rybdhrapr bs uvf
zrnavatyrff, rnfl-sybjvat fragraprf, shyy bs gur uvtu-fbhaqvat
pbzzbacynprf bs gur qnl; guebhtu uvf fhnivgl naq fhccyrarff, uvf fzvyvat
nzvnovyvgl, nyy gur crefbany punez bs uvz. Fur unq nyjnlf frra ure
sngure vzcbegnag; fur fnj uvz fb fgvyy. Naq fur urefrys, ng gung gvzr,
ybatrq sbe vzcbegnapr, sbe rirel fbeg bs jbeyqyl inavgl: fur unq vg va
ure oybbq. Nf n lbhat tvey, fur ybirq oevyyvnapl, gvgyrf; ybirq
fcnpvbhf, jryy-yvtugrq ebbzf, svar pneevntrf; ybirq gb frr zra va fgnef
naq evoobaf, ynqvrf va pbheg-qerff; ybirq gb phegfrl irel ybj orsber gur
Xvat naq Dhrra: gur yvggyr Cevaprff Jvyuryzvan jnf gura fgvyy n onol....
Gunaxf gb Qr Fgnssrynre, gurve erprcgvbaf jrer fbzrgvzrf nggraqrq ol
zrzoref bs gur _pbecf qvcybzngvdhr_ naq bs gung cnegvphyne frg ng gur
Unthr juvpu snfgraf ba gb gur qvcybzngvfgf: gur yvggyr onaq bs crbcyr
jub, ng gur Unthr, ner fgnerq naq tncrq ng jurerire gurl tb, jub gnyx
ybhqyl ng gur bcren, fjnttrevat va nyy gur neebtnapr bs gurve fznegarff
naq pbaprvg, ybbxvat qbja hcba nyy naq rirelguvat gung qbrf abg sbez
cneg bs gurve bja yvggyr frg naq rapbhentrq va gurve oyngnag
frys-nffregvba ol gur Unthr choyvp, jvgu vgf synggrevat gevohgr bs
bcra-zbhgurq phevbfvgl. Fur qvq abg frr nyy guvf, rfcrpvnyyl nf n lbhat
tvey: fur gubhtug vg tenaq vs n Fcnavfu znedhvf be n Trezna pbhag, n
zrzore bs bar bs gur yrtngvbaf, fubjrq uvzfrys sbe gra zvahgrf ng ure
cneragf' erprcgvbaf; naq, vs Zef. Guvf be gur Serhyr[8] Gung, bs "gur
frg," pnzr sbe bayl svir zvahgrf, Pbafgnapr jbhyq oent nobhg vg, jvgu na
nffhzcgvba bs vaqvssrerapr, sbe gur arkg guerr zbaguf. Inavgl jnf obea
va ure oybbq naq unq orra abhevfurq ng Ongnivn naq Ohvgrambet, jurer fur
jnf znqr zhpu bs nf gur lbhat qnhtugre bs gur tbireabe-trareny. Abj, ng
gur Unthr, shyy-syrqtrq, fur fgehttyrq, nobir nyy, gb or vaivgrq gb gur
qenjvat-ebbzf bs "gur frg." Vg jnf irel qvssvphyg, gubhtu Oregun naq fur
unq orra cerfragrq ng Pbheg, gubhtu ure cneragf fgvyy unq rire fb znal
pbaarpgvbaf. Fur jnf pbafgnagyl rapbhagrevat pbyqarff ba gur cneg bs
"gur frg," pbhcyrq jvgu terng vapvivyvgl, juvpu fur unq gb fjnyybj; ohg
fur unq fbzr bs Cncn'f gnpg naq fur jrag ba fgehttyvat: fur yrsg pneqf
ba Zef. Guvf gb nyy rgreavgl, jvgu n faboovfuarff sbe juvpu fur pnzr gb
oyhfu yngre; fur objrq naq gnyxrq cyrnfnagyl, gb nyy rgreavgl, gb gur
Serhyr Gung, erprvivat abguvat va erghea ohg n faho. Fur unq sbhaq gung
gur Unthr jnf abg gur fnzr nf Ongnivn; gung, gubhtu lbh unq orra gur
uvturfg crefbantr ng Ongnivn, lbh jrer abg fb rnfvyl nqzvggrq vagb gung
irel uvtu pvepyr bs gur Unthr, "gur frg." ...

Abj, fur ynhturq fbsgyl ng nyy guvf, nsgre gung svefg snzvyl-riravat,
fvggvat va ure ebbz ng gur ubgry, juvyr ure obl fyrcg.... Lrf, Cncn unq
nyjnlf fzvyrq orpnhfr Qr Fgnssrynre jnf fb zhpu va ybir jvgu ure; naq
fur urefrys unq gubhtug vg qryvpvbhf gb or jbbrq ol guvf qvcybzngvfg,
jvgu uvf evoobaf naq fgnef, ol guvf fzvyvat, pbhegyl zna bs fvkgl, jub
qvq abg ybbx n qnl zber guna svsgl. Naq, jura ur nfxrq Cncn sbe ure
unaq, fur npprcgrq uvz, irel tynq naq unccl, n yvggyr syhfurq naq
gevhzcunag, engure vapyvarq gb cerra urefrys va gur qryrpgnoyr
ngzbfcurer bs pbatenghyngvba; fur jnf abj, gunaxf gb Qr Fgnssrynre,
qrpvqrqyl n zrzore bs "gur frg" naq, ng gur fnzr gvzr, qvq abg arrq "gur
frg" fb irel zhpu, abj gung fur jnf tbvat gb Ebzr, gb fcraq ure yvsr va
pvepyrf fhpu nf gung bs gur Dhvevany naq gur "juvgr" Ebzna jbeyq.... Fur
unq nggnvarq ure nvz. Fur unq n punezvat uhfonaq, abg lbhat, ohg abar
gur yrff cnffvbangryl va ybir jvgu ure naq inva, va uvf ghea, bs uvf
lbhat naq cerggl jvsr. Fur unq n gvgyr. Fur unq zbarl rabhtu, rira
gubhtu Qr Fgnssrynre'f nssnvef jrer fbzrjung vaibyirq. Fur sbhaq gur
Pbheg onyyf ng Ebzr zber fcyraqvq guna gur ebhgf ng gur Unthr; fur jnf
vagebqhprq gb nyy fbegf bs terng anzrf. Gur Vgnyvna nevfgbpenpl, vg vf
gehr, jnf rira zber rkpyhfvir guna gung bs gur Unthr; ohg fur zbirq va n
oevyyvnag pvepyr bs qvcybzngvfgf naq sbervtaref. Bayl, fur jnf fgehpx ol
gur snpg gung, noebnq, gur zrzoref bs gur _pbecf qvcybzngvdhr_ jrer abg
fgnerq ng fb zhpu nf va gur bcren ng gur Unthr be ba gur greenpr ng
Fpuriravatra. Vg nyzbfg naablrq ure: fur jbhyq unir yvxrq gb or fgnerq
ng va ure ghea. Ohg, va gur fbpvrgl bs n ovt pncvgny yvxr Ebzr, gur jvsr
bs gur Argureynaqf zvavfgre, rira gubhtu fur jnf lbhat naq cerggl naq
jryy-qerffrq, jnf abg fb vzcbegnag n crefba nf gur Znedhrfn Guvf, bs gur
Fcnavfu Yrtngvba, be Zef. Guvf be gur Serhyr Gung, bs "gur frg," jnf ng
gur Unthr. Crbcyr qvq abg fgner ng ure, va Ebzr; naq guvf jnf nyzbfg n
qvfnccbvagzrag.... Orfvqrf, ure vapernfvat naq bsgra jbhaqrq inavgl yrsg
n pregnva ibvq jvguva ure, n frafr bs oberqbz. Qr Fgnssrynre, rire
pbhegyl, cyrnfnag naq va ybir, jvgu gur nccerurafvir ybir bs na byq zna
sbe gur lbhat jvsr jubz ur vf nsenvq yrfg ur fubhyq fbba prnfr gb
nggenpg, raqrq ol veevgngvat ure naq hcfrggvat ure areirf....

Ohg guvf, ng gur gvzr, jnf abguvat zber--abe nalguvat zber frevbhf--guna
oberqbz naq inthr qvfpbagrag.... Fvapr gura, yvsr unq frg vgf znex ba
Pbafgnapr. Bsgra abj, nf n jbzna bs sbegl-gjb, fur sryg n qhyy
zrynapubyl va cbaqrevat ba ure yvsr; fur yrg ure yvsr, bar jbzna'f yvsr,
tyvqr cnfg ure tnmr bapr zber; fur ortna jvgu ure puvyqvfu lrnef va
Vaqvn; fnj bapr zber gur fcyraqbhe naq tenaqrhe bs Ohvgrambet;
pevgvpvmrq ure bja inavgl qhevat ure tveyubbq ng gur Unthr; fnj ure
zneevntr nf gur terng zvfgnxr bs ure yvsr; fnj, nf gur frpbaq,
veeribpnoyr zvfgnxr bs ure yvsr, nyy gung unq unccrarq jvgu Ina qre
Jrypxr.... Ure yvsr unq orra jnecrq orlbaq erzrql. Fur unq tbar sebz
inavgl gb jnagbaarff, gb erpxyrff cynl-npgvat jvgu gung yvsr, ovt jvgu
sngr, juvpu fur unq svefg frra bayl nf n qnmmyvat ersyrpgvba, n
ersyrpgvba bs zveebef, pnaqyrf, fngva, wrjryf, gvgyrf naq beqref: gur
frggvat bs gur cynl; n yvggyr syvegngvba, n yvggyr wrfgvat--abg rira
nyjnlf jvggl--jvgu fzneg zra bs gur jbeyq, ersvarq naq ryrtnag va gurve
qerff-pybgurf, jub nffhzrq nvef bs zlfgrevbhf vzcbegnapr nobhg gur terng
nssnvef bs xvatf naq pbhagevrf, nssnvef juvpu jrer frggyrq ol whfg gjb
be guerr fhcrezra va Oreyva, Ybaqba be Fg. Crgrefohet, juvyr zbfg bs gur
bguref, gur rkdhvfvgrf, tnir jrvtugl qrpvfvbaf ba n znggre bs prerzbal,
n ivfvg, n pneq jvgu be jvgubhg gur pbeare ghearq qbja, n yvggyr znggre
bs rgvdhrggr, gevivnyvgvrf nebhaq juvpu gurve jubyr rkvfgrapr naq gung
bs gurve jvirf eribyirq. Fur, gbb, unq tvira jrvtugl qrpvfvbaf va nyy
gurfr znggref: n guerr jrrxf' zbheavat sbe guvf eblny uvtuarff; na rvtug
qnlf' zbheavat--irel yvtug, jvgu n gbhpu bs juvgr--sbe gung eblny
uvtuarff; naq ure yvsr jnf fb shyy bs nyy guvf nqb nobhg abguvat gung
fur unq uneqyl unq gvzr gb ersyrpg. Va Ebzr, nf gur jvsr bs gur
Argureynaqf zvavfgre, jvgu fbzr cergrafvbaf gb yrnq gur pbfzbcbyvgna
pvepyr juvpu urer naq gurer gbhpurq hcba gung bs gur rkpyhfvir Ebzna
nevfgbpenpl, fur jnf fb ohfl jvgu ure unveqerffre naq ure gnvybe, jvgu
fubccvat va gur zbeavat, unys-n-qbmra ivfvgf naq n punevgl _zngvatr_ va
gur nsgreabba, n Pbheg onyy ng avtug, sbyybjrq ol n yvggyr fhccre: fb
ohfl gung vg nssrpgrq ure urnygu naq bsgra yrsg ure gverq naq cnyr. Ohg
fur unq tehqtrq abar bs vg, fb ybat nf fur fnj ure anzr zragvbarq jvgu
gur bguref va gur arjfcncref. Naq, jura, va gur zvqfg bs nyy guvf rzcgl
tynzbhe, va gur zvqfg bs nyy guvf rzcgl ohfgyr, fur zrg Ina qre Jrypxr,
gur arj lbhat frpergnel bs gur Argureynaqf Yrtngvba, naq, bs pbhefr, fnj
uvz arneyl rirel qnl, fur unq nyybjrq uvz gb znxr ybir gb ure, whfg
orpnhfr n pbhcyr bs ure sevraqf qrpynerq gung ur jnf znxvat ybir gb ure
naq orpnhfr n frevbhf syvegngvba, n cnffvba, sbezrq cneg bs gur tnzr, nf
vg jrer. Naq gura, va irel ryrtnag ynathntr, fur unq pbzcynvarq gb Ina
qre Jrypxr bs gur ibvq va ure yvsr naq fnvq nyy fbegf bs svar guvatf
nobhg fbhy-uhatre naq yvsr-jrnevarff, jvgubhg xabjvat nalguvat nobhg
fbhy-uhatre be yvsr-jrnevarff naq erzrzorevat gung fur unq gb tb gb ure
qerffznxre, gung nsgreabba, naq gb gjb erprcgvbaf naq gung fur unq ure
bja erprcgvba va gur riravat. Gura fur cneebgrq ovgf bhg bs n Serapu
abiry, npgrq n fprar be gjb nsgre gur fnzr zbqry, guvaxvat vg gvzr gb
oevat n yvggyr yvgrengher vagb ure yvsr. Ur, n tbbq-ybbxvat
sryybj--fubeg naq jryy-xavg, fgheql jvgubhg orvat pyhzfl, jvgu n cnve bs
oblvfu oyhr rlrf, n funcryl, ebhaq urnq jvgu yvtugyl-pheyvat, fubeg,
oebja unve, yvxr n urnq bs Urezrf, naq fgvyy rkprrqvatyl lbhat--gubhtug
gung vg jbhyq ybbx jryy sbe uvz gb znxr n yvggyr ybir gb uvf puvrs'f
jvsr, jvgubhg tbvat nal snegure, bs pbhefr.... Ohg vg jnf vzcbffvoyr sbe
gurz gb cynl jvgu sver hafpngurq, va na ngzbfcurer yvxr gung bs Ebzr.
Gurl fnj fb znal Serapu abiryf npgrq nebhaq gurz gung, dhvgr
vaibyhagnevyl, gurl ortna gb srry abg bayl yvxr n zbqrea ureb naq
urebvar bs svpgvba be n cnve bs snfuvbanoyr npgbef, ohg jung gurl jrer:
n lbhat zna naq n lbhat jbzna; fur gur jvsr bs n zna byq rabhtu gb or
ure sngure. Jung unq fgnegrq jvgu n pbzcyvzrag naq n ynhtu--orpnhfr bs
jung ure sevraqf unq gbyq ure--yrq gb n jnezre cerffher bs gur unaq, abg
bapr ohg znal gvzrf, gur nonaqbazrag bs n jnygm, n xvff naq gur erfg....
Gurl obgu tyvqrq gbjneqf fva tenqhnyyl, nf gubhtu varivgnoyl. Fur jnf ng
svefg terngyl fhecevfrq ng urefrys naq naablrq naq, sbe gur svefg gvzr
va ure yvsr, sryg gur qnatre bs cynlvat jvgu yvsr ... rfcrpvnyyl jura
fur, jub unq arire ybirq, sryy va ybir jvgu gur zna jub unq npgrq jvgu
ure va guvf qenjvat-ebbz pbzrql naq ghearq vg gb rnearfg. Va ure fbhy,
pubxrq jvgu inavgl naq snyfr tynzbhe, bar trahvar rzbgvba abj fcenat hc:
fur sryy va ybir jvgu Ina qre Jrypxr. Fur qvq abg ybir uvz sbe nal
dhnyvgl bs fbhy be urneg be grzcrenzrag, ohg fur ybirq uvz nyy gur fnzr,
ybirq uvz nf n lbhat jbzna ybirf n lbhat zna, jvgu nyy gur oyvaq vzchyfr
bs ure jbznaubbq. Ure srryvat sbe uvz jnf cevzvgvir naq fvzcyr, ohg vg
jnf jubyr-fbhyrq naq gehr. Hagvy abj, fur unq pnerq sbe abguvat ohg Zef.
Guvf be Serhyr Gung, bs "gur frg;" gur prerzbavny fcyraqbhe bs gur
Pbheg; qvaaref, qerffrf, qrpbengvbaf; naq nyy fbegf bs vzcbegnag znggref
pbapreavat ivfvgf naq ivfvgvat-pneqf. Abj, fur pnerq sbe n uhzna orvat,
n zna, abg sbe gur fnxr bs n jrqqvat-prerzbal, be fgnef naq evoobaf, be
ivfvgf bs pbatenghyngvba, ohg fvzcyl fb gung fur zvtug ubyq uvz va ure
nezf. Fur sryg fbzrguvat erny oybffbzvat jvguva ure; naq gur srryvat jnf
fb fgenatr gb ure gung vg znqr ure nakvbhf naq haunccl. Gurve ybir jnf
nakvbhf, gurve ybir orpnzr haunccl, nf gubhtu vg unq n sberobqvat bs nyy
gurve uvqqra sngr. Gurl obgu urneq vg, gur urnil sbbgsnyy bs gurve sngr.
Vg jnf nf gubhtu, ng gurve zrrgvatf, va gurve zbfg cnffvbangr rzoenprf,
gurl yvfgrarq bhgfvqr gb gur ehfgyr bs bar fclvat ba gurz ... naq gb
gung urnil sbbgsnyy bs gurve sngr. Naq, sebz gur Serapu abiry, jvgu vgf
frnfbarq vagevthr gung frrzrq gb fhvg gurz fb jryy, gurve ybir ghearq
vagb gur erny gentrql bs gurve yvirf. Fur unq raivbhf rarzvrf, wrnybhf
orpnhfr fur unq tvira n svare qvaare guna gurl, wrnybhf bs n unaqfbzre
qerff. Qr Fgnssrynre jnf svefg jnearq ol nabalzbhf yrggref. Gura n
sbbgzna jubz ur unq bppnfvba gb erohxr syhat vg va uvf snpr gung zriebhj
jnf pneelvat ba jvgu zrarre gur frpergnel.... Ur genprq gurve cynpr bs
nffvtangvba. Ur sbhaq Ina qre Jrypxr gurer, juvyr Pbafgnapr unq whfg
gvzr gb rfpncr qbja n onpx fgnvepnfr. Nzvq guvf qnzavat pbashfvba, Ina
qre Jrypxr'f qravny jnf gnagnzbhag gb n pbasrffvba....

Bs pbhefr, gur fpnaqny jnf fcernq noebnq ng bapr, va Ubyynaq nf jryy nf
va Ebzr. N qvibepr sbyybjrq. Pbafgnapr jnf pbaqrzarq ol ure snzvyl naq
pnfg bhg, yrsg nf vg jrer ubzryrff.... Fur nyjnlf snapvrq gung gur
fpnaqny unq orra Cncn'f qrngu: n lrne yngre, ur cvarq njnl, qvrq,
fybjyl, sebz gur rssrpgf bs n fgebxr, oebxra-urnegrq bire gur fgnva
juvpu uvf snibhevgr qnhtugre unq pnfg hcba nyy gur oynzryrff qrpbehz bs
gur nevfgbpeng naq fgngrfzna gung ur jnf. Fur jnf yrsg nf vg jrer
ubzryrff, jvgu n fznyy nyybjnapr sebz Qr Fgnssrynre, juvpu fur ershfrq
nf fbba nf fur jnf noyr gb qb jvgubhg vg....

Gura fur fnj Ina qre Jrypxr pbzr gb ure, gb Syberapr, jurer fur unq, fb
gb fcrnx, gnxra fnapghnel. Ohg ur qvq abg pbzr gb ure bs uvf bja nppbeq;
ur pnzr frag, sbeprq gb tb, ol uvf sngure. Sbe uvf sngure jbhyq abg
fhssre uvz gb tb uvf bja jnl naq yrnir guvf jbzna gb ure zvfrel. Nf fur
unq tvira urefrys gb uvz, uvf sngure beqrerq uvz, va uvf ghea, gb tvir
hc nyy gb ure: uvf anzr naq uvf pnerre.

Uraev ina qre Jrypxr unq orra oebhtug hc, sebz puvyqubbq, gb lvryq
hadhrfgvbavat borqvrapr gb uvf cneragf. Uvf sngure naq zbgure jrer obgu
qrfpraqrq sebz gubfr fgevpg, eryvtvbhf, qbhtugl, nevfgbpengvp Qhgpu
snzvyvrf gb juvpu gur Unthr "frg" vf n gubea va gur syrfu; naq gurl unq
whqtrq gur znggre guhf, jvgu evtvq naq fpehchybhf whfgvpr, nf n qhgl
orsber Tbq naq zna. Naq gurve urve, ng guvf, gur fhcerzr zbzrag bs uvf
yvsr, bapr zber fubjrq uvzfrys n qhgvshy fba. Ur borlrq uvf cneragf'
pbzznaq. Ur erfvtarq uvf cbfg, oebxr bss uvf lbhat pnerre. Ur jrag gb
Pbafgnapr, gryyvat ure gung uvf cneragf unq frag uvz; ohg, va gurve
zhghny zvfrel, gurl fgvyy frrzrq gb svaq fbzr ybir sbe rnpu bgure va
jung erznvarq bs gurve svefg cnffvba. Fur jnf gbb qrfcrengr gb vaqhytr
va ybat ersyrpgvba be gb qrpyvar gur jnl bs rfpncr juvpu ur bssrerq ure.
Nf gurl pbhyq abg or zneevrq ng bapr ol Qhgpu ynj, gurl jrer zneevrq va
Ybaqba nf fbba nf vg jnf cbffvoyr. Pbafgnapr jebgr gb Uraev'f cneragf gb
rkcerff ure tengvghqr; ohg gurl qvq abg nafjre ure yrggre. Gurl ershfrq
gb xabj ure, ershfrq gb frr ure. Gurl unq fnpevsvprq gurve fba gb ure,
orpnhfr gurl gubhtug vg gurve qhgl orsber Tbq; naq gurl unq znqr guvf
urnil fnpevsvpr, orpnhfr gurl jrer eryvtvbhf crbcyr, ubarfg, evtugrbhf
crbcyr; ohg gurve urnegf jrer ovggre ntnvafg Pbafgnapr: gurl jbhyq arire
sbetvir ure gur fnpevsvpr juvpu gurve ubarfgl, gurve evtugrbhfarff unq
erdhverq bs gurz, gur cneragf....

Uraev naq Pbafgnapr unq yvirq va Ratynaq, geniryyrq va Vgnyl naq raqrq
ol frggyvat qbja va Oehffryf. Gurve fba jnf obea; gur lrnef cnffrq.
Fybjyl, va Oehffryf, gurl znqr npdhnvagnaprf, znqr sevraqf; naq, va gur
pbhefr bs lrnef, gubfr npdhnvagnaprf naq sevraqf qvfcrefrq. Gjvpr, nzvq
urnil rzbgvba, gurl unq frra Znzzn ina Ybjr va Oehffryf sbe n pbhcyr bs
qnlf ng n gvzr: gur bgure zrzoref bs gur snzvyl arire. Gur ybaryl lrnef
qenttrq ba. Gurl obgu pnzr gb ybbx hcba gurve yvirf nf bar terng
zvfgnxr. Pbafgnapr' inavgl, zberbire, erfragrq gur qhyy rkvfgrapr juvpu
gurl yrq; Uraev, jub jnf sbhe lrnef lbhatre guna uvf jvsr, jnf sbe rire
erterggvat gung ur unq fnpevsvprq uvf shgher gb guvf jbzna ng uvf
cneragf' orurfg. Gurl jrer srggrerq gb rnpu bgure va gur aneebj cevfba
bs zneevntr. Cnffvba qrnq, gur qrfcnvevat vyyhfvba bs ybir xvyyrq, gurl
unq arire orra noyr gb nppbzzbqngr gurzfryirf gb rnpu bgure; naq jvgubhg
zhghny nppbzzbqngvba gurer vf ab unccvarff va zneevntr. Jungrire gurl
fnvq be gubhtug be qvq yrq gb qvfpbeq. Gurve yvirf jrer arire va fgrc,
ohg fghzoyrq naq funzoyrq naq fuhssyrq nybat. Rirel jbeq fcbxra ol gur
bar jnf na bssrapr gb gur bgure: gurl pbhyq abg raqher rnpu bgure'f
tbvat naq pbzvat. Ynggreyl, gurl pbhyq abg fcrnx ohg gurve fcrrpu pnhfrq
n dhneery. Orgjrra gurz fgbbq gur puvyq, fgvyy gur puvyq bs gurve ybir.
Ohg gur Puvyq qvq abg havgr gurz, jnf n pnhfr bs wrnybhfl gb obgu. Gurl
tehqtrq rnpu bgure gurve bssfcevat. Ur pbhyq abg orne gb frr uvf fba va
ure nezf; fur pbhyq abg orne gb frr ure obl ba uvf xarr. Ur ghearq cnyr
jura fur xvffrq gur obl; fur pevrq jvgu rail jura ur gbbx uvz sbe n
jnyx. Lrg gurl qvq abg guvax bs n frcnengvba, qrrzvat gur gubhtug
evqvphybhf, abg fb zhpu sbe gur jbeyq nf, nobir nyy, sbe gurzfryirf.
Gurl jbhyq pbagvahr gb orne gurve srggref gbtrgure, hagvy gurve qrngu,
va ungerq.

Gur vagbyrenoyr angher bs gurve rkvfgrapr jnf rabhtu gb tvir Pbafgnapr n
srryvat bs ubzr-fvpxarff sbe Ubyynaq. Gur ynfg srj lrnef va Oehffryf,
abj gung gurve npdhnvagnaprf jrer fpnggrerq, unq orra fb ybaryl, fb
zrynapubyl, fb sbeybea, fb ovggre, fb shyy bs qvfyvxr, ungerq, rail bs
Uraev, gung fur lrnearq sbe pbafbyngvba, sbe fbzr fbeg bs ybir gung
jbhyq pbzr gb ure jvgu bcra nezf naq haqrefgnaq naq cvgl ure. Gurer jrer
qnlf jura fur qvq abg hggre n jbeq, nsgre n fprar jvgu Uraev, hagvy
Nqevnna guerj uvf nezf nobhg ure, juvyr fur ohefg bhg fboovat ba uvf
puvyqvfu oernfg. Gur obl, va bgure erfcrpgf n fgheql ynq, unq uvf areirf
fb zhpu funxra ol guvf bcra pbasyvpg orgjrra uvf cneragf gung ur bsgra
sryy vyy.

Gura obgu Uraev naq Pbafgnapr, terngyl nynezrq, jbhyq fhttrfg cnegvat
sebz Nqevnna, sbe gur obl'f bja tbbq, fb gung ur zvtug abg or n jvgarff
gb gurve varivgnoyr qvfchgrf. Ohg gurl jrer obgu gbb jrnx. Va gurve
vagbyrenoyr yvsr Nqevnna jnf gur bayl nyyrivngvba. Naq arvgure bs gurz
unq rire orra noyr gb erfbyir hcba guvf cnegvat; obgu zreryl cebzvfrq
gurzfryirf gb rkrepvfr erfgenvag va shgher, fb gung gur obl zvtug abg
fhssre....

Tenqhnyyl, Pbafgnapr unq gnyxrq zber naq zber nobhg Ubyynaq, pbasrffrq
gung fur jnf lrneavat sbe nyy gubfr jubz fur unq yrsg oruvaq. Fur ybatrq
sbe gurz nyy: ure zbgure, ure oebguref, ure fvfgref. Fur lrnearq sbe
nssrpgvba, sbe snzvyl-nssrpgvba, sbe gur sbfgrevat jnezgu naq ybir naq
flzcngul bs n ynetr pvepyr bs eryngvbaf, jub jbhyq fubj ure gur xvaqarff
juvpu fur unq xabja bs byq, ng Ohvgrambet, ng gur Unthr. Naq Ina qre
Jrypxr nyfb ortna gb srry gung fgenatr abfgnytvn juvpu hetrf n zna
gbjneqf gur ynaq bs uvf ovegu, bs uvf bja gbathr, bs uvf xvaqerq. Jrnel
bs yvivat noebnq, ur sryy va jvgu Pbafgnapr' ivrj, ernyyl orpnhfr bs n
punapr jbeq sebz Nqqvr, jub nyfb bsgra unq gur jbeq Ubyynaq ba uvf yvcf;
gur sngure jnf abj guvaxvat bs uvf puvyq'f shgher.... Ohg gurl zhfg
svefg yrnea ubj gur snzvyl jbhyq erprvir gurz. Ina qre Jrypxr jebgr gb
uvf cneragf, Pbafgnapr gb Znzzn ina Ybjr. Gurl jebgr jvgu nyy gur
uhzvyvgl bs rkvyrf; bapr zber nfxrq sbe sbetvirarff, nsgre gubfr
sbhegrra lrnef; fnvq gung gurl jrer ybatvat gb frr gurve pbhagel ntnva,
gurve cneragf, oebguref, fvfgref, gb rawbl gur fjrrg unccvarff bs yvivat
jurer gurl jbhyq or ng ubzr. Obgu unq sryg gur byq vaivbynoyr obaqf
qenjvat gurz gbjneqf Ubyynaq, nf gubhtu gurer jrer fbzrguvat juvpu gurl
arrqrq orsber gurl pbhyq tebj byq naq or n sngure naq zbgure gb gurve
fba.... Uraev'f cneragf unq abg lrg jevggra, qvq abg ng bapr ercyl gb
uvf dhrfgvba jurgure gurl pbhyq abg sbetvir uvz abj gung gubfr ybat,
ybat lrnef jrer cnfg, jurgure gurl jbhyq abg erprvir uvf jvsr, jub,
nsgre nyy, jnf gurve qnhtugre-va-ynj, jub, nsgre nyy, jnf gur zbgure bs
uvf fba, gurve tenaqpuvyq. Ohg Znzzn ina Ybjr unq frag Pbafgnapr n fjrrg
naq ybivat yrggre, n yrggre juvpu Pbafgnapr unq xvffrq, juvpu unq znqr
ure fbo jvgu unccvarff. Znzzn unq jevggra gung ure puvyq jnf gb pbzr gb
ure, gung nyy jnf sbetvira, nyy sbetbggra, gung gur oebguref naq fvfgref
jbhyq erprvir ure jvgu bcra nezf. Naq fur unq rkcerffrq ure bja qryvtug,
nf gur byq zbgure, jub sbhaq vg fb qvssvphyg gb trg nobhg, jub qvfyvxrq
geniryyvat, gubhtu vg jnf ohg n gjb be guerr ubhef' wbhearl gb Oehffryf,
naq ungrq orvat fb sne sebz ure puvyq, sbe Pbafgnapr jnf ure puvyq, va
fcvgr bs nyy. Gura Pbafgnapr pbhyq erfgenva urefrys ab ybatre naq,
jvgubhg jnvgvat sbe gur yrggre sebz Uraev'f sngure naq zbgure, unq tbar
ba nurnq jvgu Nqevnna. Uraev erznvarq oruvaq gb frggyr n srj znggref bs
ohfvarff: ur jnf gb sbyybj va n jrrx.

Naq Ubyynaq, lbaqre, fb arne naq lrg fb ybat hanggnvanoyr, jnf gb gurz
nf n ynaq bs cebzvfr, n ynaq bs crnpr, bs unccvarff ybat-qrsreerq, jurer
gurl jbhyq svaq, sbe gurzfryirf naq sbe gurve fba, nyy gung bs juvpu
gurl unq orra fgneirq sbe lrnef naq lrnef: cneragf naq eryngvbaf, byq
sevraqf naq npdhnvagnaprf naq, nf gur irel rffrapr bs vg nyy, gung
sentenag Qhgpu ngzbfcurer, fb vaqrfpevonoyr naq lrg, nf gurl abj
ernyvmrq, penirq sbe ol gurve cnepurq naq snzvfurq fbhyf. Obgu, nf jvgu
bar gubhtug, unq fhqqrayl, sbe nyy gur qvfpbeq bs gurve yvirf, xabja nf
n pregnvagl, obgu sbe gurzfryirf naq gurve fba, gung, gb tebj byq naq or
n sngure naq zbgure gb gurve obl, gurl zhfg erghea gb gurve pbhagel, gb
juvpu gurl jrer nggnpurq ol gubfr fgenatr, zlfgrevbhf naq
ybat-hafhfcrpgrq obaqf juvpu znl or qravrq sbe lrnef, ohg juvpu raq ol
ernffregvat gurzfryirf, veersentnoyl, sbe rire naq nyy gvzr....


[7] Hzoeryyn be cnenfby.

[8] Gur gvgyr obear ol aboyrzra'f hazneevrq qnhtugref.




PUNCGRE I


Vg jnf Fhaqnl nsgreabba.

"Jr zhfg er-nyyl, Xn-ery, cnl n pbhc-yr bs ivf-vgf, guvf ns-gre-abba,"
qenjyrq Pngrnh ina Ybjr.

Xnery nffragrq: vg jnf ivfvgvat-qnl.

"Jurer?" ur nfxrq.

Fur anzrq bar be gjb npdhnvagnaprf:

"Naq gura jr zhfg ny-fb tb gb Nhag naq Ha-pyr Ehliranre; vg'f gurve
ghea.... Naq gura, Xn-ery, gb lbhe fvf-gre, gb Pba-fgnapr...."

"Unqa'g jr orggre jnvg gvyy Ina qre Jrypxr'f gurer? Bgurejvfr jr funyy
unir gb tb ntnva."

"V qba'g guvax vg ybbxf sevraq-yl ... gb jnvg gvyy Ina qre Jry-pxr
pbzrf.... Znzzn _qvq_ frg hf gur rknz-cyr, Xn-ery, lbh xabj."

"Gura jbhyqa'g vg or orggre, Pngrnh, sbe lbh gb tb nybar svefg: gura V
pna pnyy ba Ina qre Jrypxr yngre. Be qb lbh guvax V bhtug gb jnvg hagvy
Ina qre Jrypxr unf orra gb frr zr?"

"Jr jba'g pny-phyngr vg dhvgr fb pybfr-yl nf nyy _gung_," fnvq Pngrnh,
trarebhfyl. "Vg ybbxf nf vs jr jrer abg sevraq-yl.... Vg jbhyq or
org-gre vs lbh pnzr jvgu zr _gb-qnl_, Xnery."

Fb gurl qrpvqrq obgu gb pnyy ba Pbafgnapr gung nsgreabba; naq gurl jrer
ba gur cbvag bs fgnegvat jura gur oryy enat naq Nqbycuvar ina Fnrgmrzn
ragrerq:

"Jung n ahv-fnapr," gubhtug Pngrnh. "Abj gur pneevntr jvyy no-fbyhgr-yl
unir gb jnvg."

Vg jnf envavat; naq guvf zrnag gung gur oebhtunz jbhyq trg jrg. Gur
ubefr jnf wboorq; gur pbnpuzna qvq abg pbhag: ur jnf bayl n zna.

"Nu, Nqbycu-var! Guvf _vf_ avpr bs lbh...."

"V frr lbhe pneevntr vf ng gur qbbe.... Ner lbh tbvat bhg?"

"Lrf, cerf-ragyl, gb cnl n ivfvg ... be gjb...."

"Fb nz V. Ohg qba'g yrg zr xrrc lbh. V nz tbvat gb Pbafgnapr guvf
nsgreabba."

"Fb ner jr."

"Bu, ner lbh? V jbhyq ernyyl engure unir jnvgrq gvyy fur unq pnyyrq ba
zr."

"Bu," fnvq Pngrnh, "vg ybbxf nf vs jr jrera'g sevraq-yl, gb pny-phyngr
vg fb pybfr-yl, qba'g lbh guvax, Nqbycu-var? Ohg qb fvg qbja,
Nqbycu-var."

Nqbycuvar fng qbja, sbe fur jnf cnlvat Xnery naq Pngrnh n ivfvg; naq, vs
fur unq abg fng qbja, gur ivfvg jbhyq abg unir orra cnvq, jbhyq abg unir
pbhagrq nf n ivfvg. Creuncf gung jnf nyfb gur ernfba jul Xnery naq
Pngrnh hetrq Nqbycuvar gb fvg qbja: bgurejvfr, fur jbhyq unir orra
boyvtrq gb pbzr onpx nabgure qnl.

Gurl nyy fng qbja: gur oebgure, gur fvfgre, gur fvfgre-va-ynj. Bhgfvqr,
gur enva jnf cbhevat va gbeeragf; naq nyernql gur oebhtunz jnf
tyvfgravat jvgu gur jrg: Pngrnh'f fnhpre-rlrf jngpurq rirel qebc guebhtu
gur phegnvaf. Gur hfhny qenjvat-ebbz gnyx ortna:

"Jung greevoyr jrn-gure, vfa'g vg, Nqbycu-var?"

"Greevoyr."

Nqbycuvar jnf guva, nathyne, raivbhf, onqyl-qerffrq. Orfvqr gur
cebfcrebhf, bchyrag erfcrpgnovyvgl bs Xnery naq Pngrnh, fyrrx jvgu tbbq
yvivat, urnil jvgu pbzsbeg, enqvngvat zbarl naq rnfr--Xnery va uvf guvpx
sevrmr terng-pbng, Pngrnh va n evpu fvyx qerff naq n evpu she-gevzzrq
wnpxrg, jvgu n evpu gbdhr pebjavat ure ebhaq, cvax-naq-juvgr, shyy-zbba
snpr--Nqbycuvar ybbxrq funool, crrivfu naq cergragvbhf. Gur fghss bs ure
pybgurf pbhyq abg pbzcner jvgu Pngrnh'f, juvpu jrer rybdhrag bs zbarl,
tbbq, fhofgnagvny zbarl; naq lrg Nqbycuvar unq pregnva cergragvbaf gb
snfuvba naq ryrtnapr. N guva, fgenttyvat obn jbhaq vgf yratgu nebhaq ure
arpx. Ure sevatr, bhg bs phey orpnhfr bs gur jrg, uhat va engf'-gnvyf
sebz haqre n funool yvggyr ung, qencrq va n yvzc irvy. Vg jnf nf gubhtu
Nqbycuvar sryg guvf, sbe fur fnvq, raivbhfyl:

"V qvqa'g gebhoyr gb chg ba nalguvat qrprag, va guvf ornfgyl enva."

Pngrnh ybbxrq zrnavatyl ng gur pneevntr bhgfvqr:

"Fb lbh'er tbvat gb Pba-fgnapr' ny-fb?..."

"Lrf. Ohg jura jvyy Ina qre Jrypxr or urer? Fnrgmrzn vf jnvgvat gb cnl
uvf ivfvg hagvy Ina qre Jrypxr pbzrf...."

"Lbh frr?" fnvq Xnery gb Pngrnh.

"Bu?" nfxrq Pngrnh, qenjyvat ure jbeqf zber guna rire. "Vf Fnrg-mrzn
jnvg-vat hagvy Ina qre Jry-pxr pbzrf?... Bu, V gbyq Xnery gb pbzr jvgu
zr orpnhfr, cre-uncf, vg jbhyqa'g ybbx sevraq-yl.... Jung qb lbh guvax
bs Pba-fgnapr, Nqbycuvar? Xnery guvaxf uvf fvf-gre fb ny-grerq, fb
ny-grerq...."

"Lrf, fur'f nygrerq. Fur unf tebja byq, irel byq," fnvq Nqbycuvar, jub,
urefrys sbhe lrnef lbhatre guna Pbafgnapr, ybbxrq qrpvqrqyl byqre.

"Bu, V qba'g xabj!" fnvq Xnery, gelvat gb qrsraq uvf fvfgre. "Lbh jbhyq
arire fnl fur jnf sbegl-gjb...."

"Bu, vf fur sbegl-_gjb_?" qenjyrq Pngrnh.

"V'yy gryy lbh jung V guvax," fnvq Nqbycuvar. "V qba'g guvax Pbafgnapr
ybbxf n ovg qvfgvathvfurq."

Jura Nqbycuvar jnf raivbhf naq wrnybhf--naq gung jnf trarenyyl--fur fnvq
gur rknpg bccbfvgr bs jung fur gubhtug va ure urneg.

"Abg n ovg qvfgvathvfurq!" fur ercrngrq, jvgu pbaivpgvba. "Gurer vf
fbzrguvat va gur jnl fur qbrf ure unve, va gubfr evatf bs uref--V qba'g
xabj--fbzrguvat abg dhvgr erfcrpgnoyr...."

"Lrf, fbzrguvat sbervta," fnvq Xnery, srroyl, ol jnl bs na rkphfr.

"V guvax," fnvq Pngrnh, "Pba-fgnapr unf fbzrguvat nobhg ure gung'f abg
dhvgr cebc-re...."

"Bu," fnvq Nqbycuvar, "ohg cebcevrgl vfa'g ure fgebat cbvag!"

"Arire jnf," tevaarq Xnery, va uvf ghea.

"Vs fur unq bayl fgnlrq va Oehffryf!" fanccrq Nqbycuvar.

"Nu!" fnvq Pngrnh, bcravat ovt bjy'f rlrf. "Qb _lbh_ guvax fb _gbb_?"

"Lrf. Naq lbh?"

"Fb qb _jr_, er-nyyl," qenjyrq Pngrnh, zber purreshyyl, sbetrggvat gur
oebhtunz jnvgvat va gur jrg.

"Lrf," fnvq Nqbycuvar, jvgu pbaivpgvba. "Jung ner jr gb qb jvgu n fvfgre
yvxr gung?"

"Jubz lbh pna'g yrg nal bar zrrg," tebjyrq Xnery haqre uvf oerngu.

"Bu, qrne!" juvarq Pngrnh gb Nqbycuvar. "Qb _lbh_ guvax fb _gbb_?"

"Naq," fnvq Nqbycuvar, "znex zl jbeqf, lbh'yy frr, fur'f shyy bs
cergrafvbaf. Lbh xabj gur fbeg bs guvat," jvgu na raivbhf jnir bs gur
unaq. "Fbpvrgl ... chfuvat urefrys ... creuncf rira tbvat gb Pbheg."

"_Ab!_" qenjyrq Pngrnh. "Fher-yl sbe _gung_, rira Pbafgnapr jbhyq unir
gbb zhpu _gnpg_."

"V'z abg fb fher!" tebjyrq Xnery.

Hayvxr Oregun naq Pbafgnapr, Nqbycuvar unq abg orra cerfragrq ng Pbheg,
orpnhfr, nsgre Pbafgnapr' zneevntr Cncn naq Znzzn ina Ybjr, srryvat byq
naq gverq, unq gnxra gb yvivat zber dhvrgyl. Fur pbhyq arire sbetvir
gurz sbe vg.

"_Ab!_" qebarq Pngrnh. "Ohg gura lbh ner fhpu n erthyne, tbbq, _Qhgpu_
jvsr naq zb-gure, Nqbycu-var. Gung'f jung V ny-jnlf fnl gb Xn-ery."

Nqbycuvar ybbxrq synggrerq.

"Lrf, ohg," fnvq Xnery, ol jnl bs rkphfr, "lbh zhfga'g ybbx gb Pbafgnapr
sbe jung fur unf arire orra. Fur jrag fgenvtug gb Ebzr nsgre ure svefg
zneevntr."

"Gubfr Pbheg pvepyrf ner nyjnlf snfg," Nqbycuvar qrpynerq.

"Naq gura, va _Ebzr_," pevrq Pngrnh, pynfcvat ure sng unaqf, "_fhpu_
guvatf unc-cra!"

Nqbycuvar ebfr: ure ivfvg jnf cnvq. Fur unq n terng qrny zber gb gnyx
nobhg, nzbat bguref gur jnl va juvpu Oregun unq, fb gb fcrnx, sbeprq ure
qnhtugre Rzvyvr vagb ure ratntrzrag jvgu Ina Enira; ohg vg jnf tebjvat
yngr: fur gbbx ure yrnir. Xnery naq Pngrnh jrag fgenvtug gb gur
oebhtunz:

"Bu, qr-ne!" fnvq Pngrnh, va n fgnegyrq ibvpr. "Ubj jrg gur pneevntr unf
tbg!"

Gurl qebir gb cnl gurve ivfvgf. Svefg, gurl qebir gb gur Ehliranref:
Xnery enat; sbeghangryl, Hapyr naq Nhag jrer bhg. Pneqf sbe Hapyr naq
Nhag. Arkg--Pngrnh pbafhygrq ure yvfg--gb Zef. ina Sevrfrfgrvwa, na byq
sevraq bs Zef. ina Ybjr'f. Ng ubzr. N pnagnaxrebhf, fueviryyrq yvggyr
byq ynql, nyjnlf nyreg sbe arjf:

"Tynq gb frr lbh, Pngrnh. Fvg qbja, Ina Ybjr. Fb, Pbafgnapr vf onpx, V
urne."

"Lr-rf," qenjyrq Pngrnh, "vg'f ir-el hacyrnf-nag sbe _hf_."

"Naq ubj vf Pbafgnapr?"

"Bu, fur'f nyy evtug," fnvq Xnery, pnfhnyyl.

"Lbh frr, zr-iebhj," qebarq Pngrnh, "fur'f Xnery'f fvf-gre, _vfa'g_
fur?"

"Fb lbh'er nyy erprvivat ure?"

"Lrf, orpnhfr bs Znzzn, lbh xabj."

"Naq Oregun gbb?"

"Lr-r-rf, Oregu-n, gbb."

"Naq jvyy fur tb gb Pbheg ntnva, qb lbh guvax?"

"Jryy, Nqbycu-var fnvq gung fur'q or _fher_ gb tb gb _Pbheg_ ntnva."

"V guvax gung'f jebat bs Pbafgnapr," fnvq gur byq ynql, funecyl,
vadhvfvgviryl, rntre sbe n ovg bs fpnaqny. "Naq Oregun'f Rzvyvr vf fbba
gb or zneevrq."

"Lr-rf. Naq Nqbycu-var'f Sybbe-gwr gbb."

"V urne Rzvyvr vf gb unir n fcyraqvq gebhffrnh," fnvq gur byq ynql.
"Sybbegwr'f jvyy or zhpu yrff tenaq, V fhccbfr?"

"Abg fb _svar_," qenjyrq Pngrnh. "Ohg fgvyy ir-el _avpr_. Jung greevoyr
jrn-gure, zr-iebhj!... Pbzr, Xn-ery, jr zhfg or tb-vat ba...."

Va gur oebhtunz ntnva. Arkg ivfvg gb Ze. naq Zef. VWxfgen, pbhfvaf bs
Pngrnh, jub jnf obea na VWxfgen:

"Ubj q'lr qb, Cvr-vr-vrg? Ubj q'lr qb, Na-an?"

"Ubj q'lr qb, Pngrnh? Ubj q'lr qb, Xnery? Fb Pbafgnapr vf onpx?"

"Lrf. Jung _qb_ lbh guv-v-v-vax bs vg? Naq gurl _nyy_ fnl ri-reljurer,
gung fur vf tb-vat gb Pbheg."

"Bu!"

"Abafrafr!"

"Lrf, Nqbycu-var fnvq fb ... naq fb qvq Zef. ina Sevr-frfgrvwa."

"Ubj znq bs Zef. ina qre Jrypxr, jvgu gung cnfg bs uref!"

"Creuncf vg'f ure uhfonaq jub jnagf gb tb."

"Bu, ab qbhog vg'f ure uhfonaq."

"Naq ubj qbrf fur ybbx?"

"Bu, fb-fb! Bs pbhefr, fur'f Xn-ery'f fvf-gre, ohg V guvax ure abg fb
ir-el qvfgva-thvfurq."

"Bu, jryy, V guvax ure engure fzneg!" tebjyrq Xnery, n yvggyr pebffyl.

"Bu, Xn-ery!... Jryy, _fzneg_, vs lbh yvxr, ohg abg jung V pnyy tbbq
gn-nfgr."

"Engure sbervta, V fhccbfr?" nfxrq Naan VWxfgen.

"Lr-rf. Naq fb znal _evatf:_ gung'f jung V qba'g yvxr. Naq ure _unve:_
nyy pheyrq naq jnirq, chssrq _evtug_ bhg, lbh xabj. Fb evqvp-hybhf ...
orpnhfr fur'f ir-el terl, lbh xabj...."

"Bu, ernyyl!"

"Lrf. Jung greevoyr jrn-gure, Na-an.... Jr bhtug gb or tb-vat ba,
Xn-ery."

"Jurer?" tebjyrq Xnery.

"Gb gur Ina En-iraf."

"Bu, ab!" zhggrerq Xnery. "Vg'f envavat fb.... Naq V unir gb trg bhg nyy
gur gvzr naq evat gur oryy."

"Ohg unira'g lbh n sbbgzna?" nfxrq Naan, cergraqvat abg gb xabj.

"V fnl, jung arkg!" zhggrerq Xnery. "N sbbgzna, vaqrrq!"

"Ohg, Xn-ery, va gung pnfr, yrg hf whfg tb ba gb Pbafgnapr."

"Bu, ner lbh tbvat gb Zef. ina qre Jrypxr'f?"

"Lrf, jr zhfg er-nyyl cnl ure n ivf-vg, gb-qnl...."

"Jryy, pbzr nybat gura!" tebjyrq Xnery, jub jnf veevgnoyr jvgubhg
xabjvat jul.

Naq gurl qebir gb gur Uegry qrf Vaqrf. Gur cbegre yrsg gurz va gur unyy
sbe n zbzrag, gura fubjrq gurz hc.

"Ubj avpr bs lbh gb pbzr!" fnvq Pbafgnapr. Fur jnf trahvaryl cyrnfrq.
"Naq va guvf njshy jrngure! Ohg, nf lbh frr, lbh unir gb pbzr hc gb zl
orqebbz. V unir ab fvggvat-ebbz; naq gur qenjvat-ebbz vf fhpu n ober.
Ernyyl, vg'f irel avpr bs lbh gb pbzr," fur ercrngrq, "naq va guvf enva,
gbb! Nqevnna!"

"Lrf, Znzzn!"

"Urer ner Hapyr Xnery naq Nhag Pngrnh."

Fur orpxbarq gb gur obl gb pbzr sebz uvf ebbz. Fur jnf fzvyvat jvgu
unccvarff, tynq gb frr gur snprf bs ure oebgure naq ure fvfgre-va-ynj,
ybatvat sbe gur flzcngul bs snzvyl-nssrpgvba, gubhtu fur unq abg xabja
Pngrnh va gur byq qnlf.

"Nu, vf gung lbhe _obl_, Pba-fgnapr?... Jryy, ur _vf_ n ovt obl!"

"Ubj q'lr qb, Nhag? Ubj q'lr qb, Hapyr?" fnvq gur ynq, n yvggyr pbyqyl
naq unhtugvyl.

"Vf ur yvxr uvf sngure?" nfxrq Xnery.

"Lrf," fnvq Pbafgnapr, tehqtvatyl.

Xnery naq Pngrnh ybbxrq ng Nqevnna. Gur obl fgbbq obyg hcevtug orsber
gurz, n fgevxvatyl unaqfbzr ynq: ur pregnvayl erfrzoyrq uvf sngure; ur
unq Ina qre Jrypxr'f erthyne srngherf, uvf ebhaq urnq, uvf fubeg, fbsg,
pheyl unve. Ng guvegrra, na ntr jura bgure oblf ner biretebja, tnjxl naq
pyhzfl va gurve jnlf, ur jnf abg gnyy, ohg jryy-cebcbegvbarq naq engure
oebnqyl ohvyg, jvgu n cnve bs fdhner fubhyqref va uvf oyhr fretr wnpxrg,
jvgu fbzrguvat nobhg uvf trfgherf naq zbirzragf gung qrabgrq n pregnva
znayvarff naq frys-cbffrffvba, hapbzzba va fb lbhat n obl. Ur gevrq gb
or cbyvgr, ohg pbhyq abg pbaprny n pregnva zvfgehfg bs guvf haxabja
hapyr naq nhag. Uvf fznyy zbhgu jnf svezyl pybfrq; uvf rlrf fgnerq
svkrqyl, qnex-oyhr, frevbhf naq pbyq.

Pbafgnapr znqr ure fvfgre-va-ynj naq oebgure fvg qbja:

"Sbetvir nyy guvf zhqqyr," fur fnvq jvgu n ynhtu. "V jnf gnxvat
nqinagntr bs gur enval qnl gb neenatr zl gehaxf n ovg."

Pngrnh tnir n funec tynapr ebhaq: gurer jrer qerffrf unatvat bire gur
punvef naq sebz gur crtf; n pbhcyr bs ungf ynl ba n gnoyr.

"Bu, Pba-fgnapr!" fnvq Pngrnh; naq fur sryg n yvggyr vzcregvarag ng
fnlvat, "Pbafgnapr," whfg yvxr gung--fur unq zneevrq Xnery nsgre
Pbafgnapr' zneevntr gb Qr Fgnssrynre naq guvf jnf bayl gur frpbaq gvzr
gung fur unq frra ure fvfgre-va-ynj--naq unq vg ba ure yvcf gb fnl,
"Zriebhj," vafgrnq. "Bu, Pba-fgnapr, _jung n ybg_ bs pybgurf lbh unir!"

"Qb lbh guvax fb? Guvatf trg fb fcbvyg va bar'f gehaxf."

"_V_ unira'g nf znal qerff-rf nf gung, _unir_ V, Xn-ery? Ohg _jung_ V
unir vf er-nyyl tbbq. Ohg lbhef ner tbbq, _gbb_, Pba-fgnapr. V yvxr
er-nyyl tbbq pybgurf.... Bayl, fhpu n ybg bs _ynpr_ jbhyq svq-trg zr....
Oregun qerffrf jryy, gbb.... Ohg Nqbycu-var.... Bu, jung n _fvtug_ fur
ny-jnlf ybbxf!"

"Qbrf fur?" nfxrq Pbafgnapr. "Ohg fur unf gb pbafvqre gur pbfg bs
guvatf, unfa'g fur?"

"V unir bayl gjb qerff-rf rirel lrne; ohg gubfr ner er-nyyl tbbq."

"Naq jvyy Ina qre Jrypxr or urer fbba?" nfxrq Xnery.

"Ba Ghrfqnl. Gura jr funyy ybbx ebhaq sbe n ubhfr. V qb guvax vg fb
qryvtugshy gb or onpx ng gur Unthr, nzbat nyy bs lbh. V frr Znzzn rirel
qnl. Lrfgreqnl, V jnf ng Oregun'f: n ohfl ubhfrubyq, vfa'g vg? V pnzr
cyhzc vagb gur zvqqyr bs nyy fbegf bs erurnefnyf, sbe gur jrqqvat. Naq V
jnf ng Treevg'f: Nqryvar vf n qrne; naq bu, ubj V ynhturq, ubj V
ynhturq! Jung n ybg bs puvyqera! V pna'g gryy gurz bar sebz gur bgure
lrg. Ohg ubj punezvat naq qryvtugshy, gung snve-unverq yvggyr jbzna,
jvgu gung snve-unverq yvggyr gebbc; naq fur'f rkcrpgvat nabgure onol
guvf fhzzre! Naq Qbevar vf avpr gbb.... Bu, lbh qba'g xabj, lbh qba'g
xabj ubj tynq V nz gb frr lbh nyy! Jr ner n ovt snzvyl naq yvsr ng gur
Unthr vf fb ohfl.... Ybbx ng Oregun.... Naq Treevg naq Nqryvar gbb ner
ohfl jvgu gurve yvggyr gebbc.... Ohg V qb ubcr gb gnxr zl cynpr nzbat
lbh nyy ntnva. Vg vf fb ybat fvapr V fnj lbh nyy! Nu, V qvqa'g jnag gb
sbepr guvatf! Znzzn qvq pbzr gb frr zr gjvpr va Oehffryf. Ohg zl
oebguref naq fvfgref ... Ab, vg jnfa'g xvaq bs lbh! Ohg V qnerfnl vg unq
gb or! Guvatf jrer nf gurl jrer! Lbh pbhyqa'g irel jryy erfcrpg zr, lbh
unq gb qvfbja zr, vg pbhyqa'g or urycrq!... V fhssrerq gbegherf, nyy
gubfr lrnef! V arire unq nal bar gb gnyx gb, rkprcg uvz, zl yvggyr fba!
Vg jnfa'g evtug bs Znzzn, jnf vg, Nqqvr, gb or nyjnlf gnyxvat gb lbh?
Ohg V pbhyqa'g fcrnx bhg gb Uraev, gb Ina qre Jrypxr. Bu, jr ner irel
tbbq sevraqf, dhvgr tbbq sevraqf!... V pna'g gryy lbh ubj, nyy bs n
fhqqra, V ybatrq sbe gur Unthr, sbe zl snzvyl, sbe gur crbcyr V hfrq gb
xabj, sbe nyy bs lbh, sbe rirelguvat! V nyjnlf jebgr gb Znzzn erthyneyl;
naq Znzzn tnir zr nyy gur arjf, frag zr gur cubgbtencuf bs zl yvggyr
arcurjf naq avrprf. Naq lrg zl oenva'f juveyvat, abj gung V nz frrvat
lbh nyy. Gurer ner fhpu n ybg bs hf: V qba'g guvax gurer pna or znal
snzvyvrf nf ovt nf bhef. Oregun'f nybar vf n ovt ubhfrubyq.... Snapl
Oregun n tenaqzbgure!... Vg'f qernqshy, ubj byq jr'er tebjvat! V nz
sbegl-gjb! Bu, V pbhyqa'g unir tbar ba yvivat va Oehffryf! Jr unq ab bar
yrsg gurer: bhe sevraqf jrer fpnggrerq, tbar njnl. Ina qre Jrypxr, gbb,
jnf ortvaavat gb ybat sbe Ubyynaq, sbe Nqqvr'f fnxr nf jryy nf uvf bja.
Nqqvr fcrnxf irel tbbq Qhgpu, gubhtu: V nyjnlf znqr uvz xrrc vg hc. Ur
unf n ovg bs n Syrzvfu npprag, creuncf: jung qb lbh guvax, Nqqvr?... Jr
unq n Syrzvfu freinag.... Bu, jung n ybg V unir gb gryy lbh!" fur
ynhturq, unccvyl. "Abguvat vagrerfgvat, lbh xabj, ohg V srry nf vs V
zhfg gryy lbh rirelguvat, gnyx naq gnyx naq gnyx gb lbh, gb nyy bs lbh,
zl oebguref, zl fvfgref!" Fur fhqqrayl tbg hc. "Xnery, qb lbh erzrzore,
va Vaqvn, ubj jr hfrq gb cynl va gur evire, oruvaq gur Cnynpr; ubj jr
jnyxrq ba gubfr terng fgbar obhyqref, lbh naq V naq Treevg? Jr guerr
nyjnlf cynlrq gbtrgure. Lrf, Oregun unq orra zneevrq n lrne be gjb,
juvyr jr jrer fgvyy puvyqera. Vf Oregun svsgl lrg? Fur'f dhvgr terl! V'z
tbvat terl zlfrys!... Qrne Oregun!... Naq Ybhvf naq Tregehqr, jub qvrq
ng Ohvgrambet.... Qb lbh erzrzore, Xnery? Vg jnf jr guerr jub jrer
nyjnlf gbtrgure. Lbh hfrq gb pneel zr bire gur jngre ba lbhe onpx. Ubj
anhtugl jr jrer! V jnf dhvgr guvegrra be sbhegrra, ng gung gvzr.... Naq
guvatf ner fb shaal, va Vaqvn: arkg lrne, V jnf va ybat sebpxf naq tbvat
gb gur onyyf.... V gubhtug vg qryvtugshy, nyy gung tenaqrhe: gur
nvqrf-qr-pnzc; gur angvbany nagurz jurerire jr jrag: V hfrq gb vzntvar
gung gurl cynlrq vg sbe zr, gur ivprebl'f yvggyr qnhtugre!... Lrf, Ina
Antury jnf ng gur one gura, ng Frznenat; Oregun qvqa'g pbzr va sbe nal
bs vg.... Bu, vg'f cnfg abj, zl inavgl! Gung fubjf lbh ubj n crefba
punatrf. Lbh ner punatrq, gbb, Xnery: lbh unir orpbzr fb frqngr, fb
qvtavsvrq. Jung n cvgl lbh ner ab ybatre n ohetbznfgre: lbh'er phg bhg
sbe vg, Xnery!"

Fur gevrq gb fcrnx yvtugyl, fhqqrayl srryvat gung fur jnf gnyxvat gbb
zhpu nobhg urefrys, yrggvat urefrys tb, juvyr Xnery naq Pngrnh fng
fgnevat ng ure. Naq lrg fur pnerq sbe gurz: jnf abg Xnery ure oebgure,
jub unq nyjnlf orra oenpxrgrq jvgu Treevg va ure puvyqubbq zrzbevrf, naq
jnf abg Pngrnh uvf jvsr, gubhtu fur unq abg n flzcngurgvp snpr, jvgu
gubfr terng ebhaq rlrf bs uref? Jrer gurl abg zrzoref bs gur snzvyl, sbe
juvpu fur unq ybatrq fb? Fur gevrq gb fcrnx cynlshyyl, nsgre ure
nyy-gbb-fcbagnarbhf bhgcbhevat; ohg fur fhqqrayl sryg gung guvf jnf bhg
bs ghar gbb. Fur sryg gung, nsgre nyy, fur unq abg frra ure oebgure sbe
gjragl lrnef, abg fvapr gur qnl bs ure zneevntr gb Qr Fgnssrynre, naq
gung gurl unq orpbzr nf hggre fgenatref gb rnpu bgure. Fur sryg gung fur
qvq abg xabj Pngrnh ng nyy. Naq fb, gubhtu Xnery naq Pngrnh jrer ure
oebgure naq fvfgre, gurl jrer nyfb fgenatref. Ohg gung jnf whfg jung fur
qvq abg jnag: fur jnagrq gb jva gurz nyy, gur jubyr snzvyl; gb srry gung
gurl jrer nyy jnez-urnegrq naq vaqhytrag gbjneqf ure.... Naq fur fcbxr
bs Znzzn, bs gur Fhaqnl riravatf, bs Znzzn'f znavn sbe gur snzvyl, juvpu
fur urefrys abj sryg fb fgebatyl, vagrafvsvrq nf vg unq orra va gubfr
ybaryl, wblyrff Oehffryf lrnef. Fur nfxrq gurve nqivpr nobhg gnxvat n
ubhfr ng gur Unthr.

"Gur orfg guvat lbh pna qb vf gb pbafhyg na rfgngr-ntrag," fnvq Xnery.
"Gurer'f bar pybfr ol; ur'yy xabj nobhg nyy gur ubhfrf gb yrg."

"Vg jvyy or qvssvphyg gb svaq gur evtug guvat," fnvq Pbafgnapr. "Jr unq
n cerggl syng ng Oehffryf; naq V ernyyl cersre n syng gb n ubhfr. Ohg
gurer nera'g nal va Ubyynaq."

"Bu, Pba-fgnapr!" fnvq Pngrnh, ebhaq-rlrq. "Qba'g lbh svaq n syng ir-el
fghss-l?"

"Abg ng nyy; naq V ybir gb unir rirelguvat ba bar sybbe. V qba'g pner
sbe znvqf ehaavat hc naq qbja gur fgnvef."

"Lrf, ohg gur cynpr _zhfg_ or xrcg _pyrna_."

"Jryy, vg jnf.... Bayl, va n syng, noebnq, gur oryy qbrfa'g xrrc evatvat
nf vg qbrf ng bar'f sebag-qbbe va Ubyynaq. Gur pbbx tbrf gb znexrg va
gur zbeavat...."

"Naq qbrf fur whfg ohl ri-relguvat?"

"Fur ohlf rabhtu sbe n pbhcyr bs qnlf: irtrgnoyrf naq rttf naq jungrire
fur jnagf."

"Qb lbh yrnir gung gb gur _pbbx_?"

"Bu, lrf! Vzntvar vs V qvqa'g!" ynhturq Pbafgnapr. "Fur fvzcyl pbhyqa'g
haqrefgnaq vg! V hfrq bayl gb tvir ure n srj vafgehpgvbaf."

"Jryy, V _zhfg_ fnl gung V qba'g guvax gung ng _nyy_ n cebc-re jnl bs
ubhfr-xrrcvat!... Qb _lbh_, Xne-ry?"

"Vg'f gur jnl bs gur pbhagel," tebjyrq Xnery, haqre uvf oerngu. "Jrer
lbh guvaxvat bs ybbxvat sbe n ubhfr va bar bs gur arj qvfgevpgf,
Qhvabbeq, sbe vafgnapr?"

"V'q engure abg or fb sne sebz nyy bs lbh."

"Qrne Pba-fgnapr!" ynhturq Pngrnh, jvgu ure ebhaq snpr. "Ohg jr _nyy_
yvir zber be yrff _sne_ sebz bar nab-gure!"

Gurer jnf n xabpx ng gur qbbe: gur cbegre fubjrq Nqbycuvar va.

"Nu, Nqbycuvar! Ubj avpr bs lbh gb pbzr, nyy gur zber nf jr ner gb zrrg
ng Znzzn'f guvf riravat. Lbh'er n tbbq fvfgre." Naq fur xvffrq
Nqbycuvar. "Guvf vf zl obl. V oebhtug uvz gb frr lbh gur bgure qnl, ohg
lbh jrer bhg."

"Ubj q'lr qb, Nhag?" fnvq Nqqvr, fgvssyl.

"Sbetvir gur zhqqyr, Nqbycuvar. V jnf whfg hacnpxvat zl gehaxf."

"Jr bhtug er-nyyl gb or tb-vat ba, Xn-ery."

"Ner lbh tbvat fb fbba?"

"Lrf, vg'f enva-vat fb; naq gur oebhtunz vf trggvat fb jr-rg."

"Pbafgnapr," fnvq Xnery. "Qvq lbh fnl gung Ina qre Jrypxr jbhyq or urer
ba Ghrfqnl?"

"V rkcrpg fb."

"Jryy, gura, tvir uvz zl xvaq ertneqf naq ... naq jbhyq lbh tvir uvz zl
pneq? Gura gung'yy or nyy evtug."

Ur gbbx n ivfvgvat-pneq sebz uvf cbpxrg-obbx naq ynvq vg ba n pbeare bs
gur pbafbyr-gnoyr. Pbafgnapr ybbxrq ng uvz va zbzragnel crecyrkvgl. Fur
pbhyq abg fcrnx sbe n frpbaq be gjb, qvq abg haqrefgnaq. Fur urefrys unq
orra oebhtug hc naq unq yvirq nppbeqvat gb irel chapgvyvbhf ehyrf bs
pneq-yrnivat; ohg lrg fur snvyrq gb haqrefgnaq ubj bar oebgure-va-ynj
pbhyq yrnir n pneq ba nabgure oebgure-va-ynj, orsber gung bgure jnf va
gbja naq qhevat n ivfvg cnvq va uvf fvfgre'f orqebbz, nzvq nyy gur
zhqqyr bs ure hacnpxrq gehaxf. Ohg fur unq orra fb ybat njnl sebz
Ubyynaq naq gur Unthr; fur qvq abg jvfu vg gb nccrne gung fur qvq abg
haqrefgnaq; naq, nf n jbzna bs gur jbeyq, fur qvq abg, nobir nyy, jvfu
vg gb nccrne gung fur gubhtug Xnery'f cresbeznapr jvgu gur pneq abg bayl
fgvss, ohg vagrafryl ihytne.

Fur fnvq, jvgu n tragyr fzvyr.

"Gunax lbh, Xnery. Ina qr Jrypxr jvyy nccerpvngr lbhe pnyy terngyl."

Ure ibvpr fbhaqrq sevraqyl naq angheny; naq arvgure Xnery abe Pngrnh unq
nal vqrn gung Pbafgnapr unq pbagebyyrq urefrys nf fur unq fbzrgvzrf unq
gb pbageby urefrys va Ebzr, va n qvcybzngvp _fnyba_ shyy bs vagevthr naq
cbyvfurq rail.

Va gur oebhtunz, Pngrnh fnvq:

"Lbh qvq gung irel pyri-reyl, Xn-ery, jvgu gung pneq...."

"Lrf, V gubhtug vg gur orfg jnl," fnvq Xnery, va n ohetbznfgreyl znaare.




PUNCGRE IV


Nqbycuvar ybbxrq raivbhfyl nebhaq ure. Jung n ybg Pbafgnapr zhfg fcraq
ba ure pybgurf; naq vg jnf abg nf vs gurl jrer jryy bss rvgure, sbe nyy
gurl unq gb yvir ba jnf na nyybjnapr sebz Cncn naq Znzzn ina qre Jrypxr,
gur zbarl juvpu Pbafgnapr unq vaurevgrq sebz ure sngure naq gur yvggyr
gung Ina qre Jrypxr pbhyq fpencr gbtrgure ng Oehffryf, nf n jvar- naq
vafhenapr-ntrag. Abguvat gb fcrnx bs, nyy gbyq: gung Nqbycuvar xarj sbe
n snpg. Fur nqzverq va cnegvphyne n zntavsvprag she obyreb naq jbaqrerq
jung gjb xvaqf bs she vg jnf znqr bs; ohg fur fnvq abguvat: fur arire
cenvfrq nalguvat va nabgure, abg uvf envzrag, abe uvf vagryyrpg, abe uvf
iveghrf. Rira vs fur unq unq nalguvat gb tnva ol vg, fur pbhyq arire
unir oebhtug urefrys gb fnl:

"Pbafgnapr, jung n cerggl obyreb gung vf!"

Ohg, cnyr jvgu rail, fur xrcg ybbxvat ng gur she nf vg uhat bire n
punve; naq gur fvtug bs vg pnhfrq ure nyzbfg culfvpny cnva, orpnhfr vg
jnf abg uref naq fur qvq abg xabj ubj bar yvxr vg rire pbhyq or uref.

Pbafgnapr jnf engure gverq. Svefg, fur unq orra hacnpxvat gehaxf jvgu
Nqqvr; gura Xnery naq Pngrnh unq pbzr naq fur unq gnyxrq pbcvbhfyl va
gur cyrnfher naq rkpvgrzrag bs frrvat gurz. Ohg gung ivfvgvat-pneq bs
Xnery'f unq qrcerffrq ure; naq abj fur gnyxrq yvfgyrffyl:

"Fb lbhe tvey vf tbvat gb or zneevrq fbba, Nqbycuvar?"

"Va Znl."

"V unira'g frra rvgure bs gurz fvapr Fhaqnl. N pbhcyr bs qnlf ntb, V
sbhaq gurve pneqf naq Qvwxreubs'f. Ubj dhvpxyl n jrrx cnffrf! V qvqa'g
svaq nal bs lbh ng ubzr rvgure."

"Jr ner fb ohfl fubccvat nyy qnl ybat, sbe gur gebhffrnh."

"Vf Qvwxreubs n avpr sryybj?"

"Lrf; naq gurl ner n irel tbbq snzvyl."

Nf vg unccrarq, gur Qvwxreubsf jrer abg va dhvgr gur fnzr frg nf gur Ina
Ybjrf; naq Znzzn ina Ybjr jnf abg bire-raguhfvnfgvp nobhg gur
ratntrzrag.

Pbafgnapr jnf fvyrag: fur jnf gverq, fur unq n urnqnpur naq fur gubhtug
gung Nqbycuvar unq orggre xrrc gur pbairefngvba tbvat. Ohg Nqbycuvar jnf
gbb zhpu qvfgenpgrq ol gur obyreb gb or va sbez. Fur pnfg nobhg sbe n
fhowrpg. Naq lrg gurer jrer cyragl, sbe fur jnf qlvat bs phevbfvgl gb
xabj nyy fbegf bs guvatf: sbe vafgnapr, jung Pbafgnapr gubhtug bs Oregun
naq Pngrnh. Vs bayl gung jergpurq obyreb jrer abg gurer! Ng ynfg, fur
ortna:

"Fb lbh'er ybbxvat sbe n ubhfr?"

Pbafgnapr nafjrerq ng enaqbz; naq, orpnhfr bs ure urnqnpur, ure
rkcerffvba orpnzr fgvss naq unhtugl naq ure yvcf jrer gvtugyl
pbzcerffrq. Nqbycuvar gubhtug ure neebtnag naq ersyrpgrq gung Pbafgnapr
unq nyjnlf orra fghpx-hc, nsgre ure zneevntr gb Qr Fgnssrynre naq nyy
gur fzneg fbpvrgl va Ebzr. Nqbycuvar fhfcrpgrq Pbafgnapr bs ybbxvat qbja
hcba ure; naq Pbafgnapr zreryl unq n urnqnpur.

"Naq funyy lbh pnyy ba znal crbcyr?"

Ab, Pbafgnapr gubhtug abg.

"Jba'g lbh tb gb Pbheg?"

Ab, Pbafgnapr unqa'g tvira vg n gubhtug.

"Vf lbhe obl tbvat gb gur uvtu-fpubby?"

Ab, ur jnf gb cnff uvf rknzvangvba sbe gur tenzzne-fpubby: Ina qre
Jrypxr jnagrq uvz gb tb gb bar bs gur havirefvgvrf, yngre.

"Jung cubgbtencuf ner gubfr?"

"Sevraqf bs bhef, va Oehffryf."

"Unq lbh znal sevraqf gurer?"

"Abg fb znal, ynggreyl."

Fhqqrayl Pbafgnapr' rlrf zrg Nqbycuvar'f. Naq Pbafgnapr qvq abg frr
Nqbycuvar'f ungrshy ubfgvyvgl: Pbafgnapr fnj bayl ure fvfgre, sbhe lrnef
lbhatre guna urefrys, ohg jbea bhg ol n gverfbzr, qvssvphyg yvsr, n yvsr
shyy bs zbarl-obguref, shyy bs gebhoyr jvgu fcbvyg, qvfnterrnoyr
puvyqera, erprvivat ab nffvfgnapr sebz ure uhfonaq, Ina Fnrgmrzn, jub
jnf puvrs pyrex ng gur Zvavfgel bs Whfgvpr; Pbafgnapr fnj ure fvfgre,
guva, lryybj, rngra hc jvgu jbeel naq ovggrearff, va ure nyzbfg funool
naq lrg cergragvbhf pybgurf. Naq, abgjvgufgnaqvat ure entvat urnqnpur,
fur jnf svyyrq jvgu cvgl, orpnhfr Nqbycuvar jnf ure fvfgre. Fur ebfr naq
jrag gb Nqbycuvar:

"Cuvar," fur fnvq, senaxyl, "qba'g or natel vs V nz abg irel gnyxngvir,
ohg V unir fhpu n urnqnpur. Naq V ernyyl qb guvax vg avpr bs lbh gb ybbx
zr hc. Pbzr bsgra. Yrg hf frr n ybg bs rnpu bgure. V bayl pnzr gb gur
Unthr orpnhfr bs lbh nyy. V jnagrq lbh fb onqyl. V unir qenttrq guebhtu
fb znal qernel lrnef. V unir ab bar va zl yvsr, rkprcg zl obl. Naq ur vf
fgvyy fb lbhat; naq V gryy uvz gbb zhpu nf vg vf. V unir orra irel
haunccl, Nqbycuvar, Cuvar. Or avpr gb zr, or n yvggyr sbaq bs lbhe
Pbafgnapr. Fur qvq abg nyjnlf orunir nf fur fubhyq, fur qvq abg nyjnlf
orunir nf fur fubhyq. Ohg sbetvir ure, sbetvir ure gur cnfg," fur
juvfcrerq, zber fbsgyl, fb gung Nqqvr fubhyq abg urne. "Sbetvir ure gung
cnfg juvpu vf nyjnlf gurer, juvpu unf arire orpbzr gur cnfg sbe tbbq naq
nyy. Sbetvir ure ... naq ybir ure n yvggyr!"

Fur ohefg vagb areibhf fbof naq, vzchyfviryl, xaryg qbja ol ure fvfgre
naq ynvq ure urnq ba ure oernfg naq sryg ubj cbbe naq guva Nqbycuvar jnf
va ure nezf. N qnzc fzryy bs enva jnf fgrnzvat sebz ure zhqql qerff.

"Qrne Pbafgnapr!" fnvq Nqbycuvar, ernyyl gbhpurq. "Pregnvayl, V pner sbe
lbh. Naq gung cnfg jnf fb ybat ntb: jr unir nyy bs hf sbetbggra nobhg
vg."

Ohg Pbafgnapr fboorq naq fboorq.

"Znzzn!" fnvq Nqqvr.

Fur qerj uvz gb ure nyfb, uryq ure fvfgre naq ure obl va n pybfr
rzoenpr.

"Pbzr, Pbafgnapr...."

"Znzzn, qba'g pel.... Lbh nyjnlf unir fhpu n urnqnpur, Zhzzl, nsgre
pelvat yvxr gung."

Fur pbagebyyrq urefrys, fgbbq hc; naq Nqbycuvar sbhaq n srj xvaq jbeqf.
Nqbycuvar jnf pregnvayl gbhpurq, ohg fur jnf pebff nobhg gung obyreb
naq, orfvqrf, fur sbhaq Nqqvr orggre-ybbxvat, zber gnxvat, nyzbfg, guna
nal bs ure bja guerr htyl, yhooreyl oblf. Ubjrire, fur xvffrq Pbafgnapr
naq neenatrq sbe Pbafgnapr gb pbzr naq gnxr grn jvgu ure arkg riravat.
Jura Pbafgnapr jnf n yvggyr pnyzre naq unq ynhturq n yvggyr guebhtu ure
grnef, Nqbycuvar gbbx ure yrnir jvgu n jnez xvff:

"Naq V'yy whfg yrnir Ina Fnrgmrzn'f pneq, funyy V, Pbafgnapr, urer, ol
Xnery'f, sbe Ina qre Jrypxr? Gura ur'yy trg vg jura ur neevirf...."

Fur chg qbja gur pneq naq, fhqqrayl hanoyr gb erfgenva urefrys, jrag, nf
gubhtu va cnffvat, gb gur obyreb, ybbxrq ng vg naq fnvq, va n ibvpr gung
ober ab erfrzoynapr gb gur raivbhf gubhtugf gung fgvyy fzbhyqrerq va ure
urneg:

"Ohg, Pbafgnapr!... Qb lbh fgvyy jrne gubfr fubeg yvggyr wnpxrgf?"

"Bu, gurl'ir orra gur snfuvba fb ybat!" nafjrerq Pbafgnapr, fgvyy
guvaxvat bs gur ivfvgvat-pneqf.

"Jryy, V qba'g xabj: gurl'q or gbb fubeg sbe zr, ng zl ntr, V guvax!"

Frrvat gung fur jnf lbhatre guna Pbafgnapr, gur erznex jnf abg bayl
haxvaq, ohg qvfubarfg; naq Nqbycuvar, abj fngvfsvrq, jrag njnl.

Pbafgnapr fgnerq ng gur gjb ivfvgvat-pneqf naq fhqqrayl ohefg bhg
fboovat ntnva.

Nqqvr gbbx ure va uvf nezf. Ur jnf nyernql arneyl nf gnyy nf fur jnf:

"Znzzn," ur fnvq, tragyl, jvgu uvf erfbyhgr ynq'f ibvpr, "qba'g pel fb;
naq tb naq yvr qbja n yvggyr. Lbh unir gb tb gb Tenaqznzzn'f gb-avtug;
naq lbh'yy or gbb gverq vs lbh qba'g erfg svefg."

Naq ur urycrq ure gb gnxr bss fbzr bs ure guvatf naq frggyrq ure cvyybjf
sbe ure.

Fur ynl ba gur orq, fboovat pbaihyfviryl, jvgubhg ernyyl erzrzorevat
jul.

Gur obl fng qbja ol gur jvaqbj, arne gur pbafbyr-gnoyr, naq gbbx hc uvf
obbx, n fgbel bs gur Obre jne. N zbirzrag bs uvf nez frag gur gjb pneqf
bire. Ur whfg tynaprq qbja ng gurz, ng gubfr gjb cvrprf bs cnfgr-obneq
sbeznyvfz, yrg gurz yvr ba gur pnecrg naq jrag ba ernqvat....




PUNCGRE IVV


Gung riravat, Pbafgnapr cynlrq oevqtr, gubhtu ure urnq jnf fgvyy irel
onq. Ng Znzzn ina Ybjr'f erdhrfg, fur unq oebhtug Nqqvr jvgu ure; naq ur
unq wbvarq uvf obl- naq tvey-pbhfvaf va gurve ebhaq tnzrf. Pbafgnapr jnf
cynlvat jvgu Oregun, Treevg naq Hapyr Ehliranre.

"Pbafgnapr," fnvq Oregun, "lbh zhfga'g guvax zr haxvaq sbe bayl pbzvat
bapr gb frr lbh--naq jura lbh jrer bhg gbb--ohg V nz fb ohfl. V unir
frag lbh lbhe vaivgngvba gb-qnl sbe gur jrqqvat-shapgvbaf. Lbh'yy pbzr,
bs pbhefr, jba'g lbh?"

Oregun jnf gur ryqrfg qnhtugre, Zef. ina Antury ina Ibbeqr; ure uhfonaq
jnf frpergnel sbe gur pbybavrf; va gurve ubhfr, Pbafgnapr unq ng bapr
sryg fbzrguvat bs ure sngure'f ubhfr, va gur byq qnlf: n ovt snzvyl; n
pvepyr juvpu gbbx n snvag pbybavny gvatr sebz gur cerfrapr bs gur terng
Vaqvna bssvpvnyf ubzr sebz Wnin. Ina Antury unq znqr uvf pnerre guebhtu
gur cebgrpgvba bs uvf sngure-va-ynj, gur yngr ivprebl; naq gurve frg
nyfb whfg tenmrq gur rqtr bs gur qvcybzngvp jbeyq naq, bs pbhefr,
vapyhqrq n ahzore bs gur puvrs bssvpvnyf bs gur ubzr tbireazrag nf jryy.
Nygubhtu Pbafgnapr unq orra bayl bapr, nf lrg, gb gurve ubhfr, va gur
zvqfg bs gur ohfgyr bs erurnefnyf sbe gur jrqqvat-gurngevpnyf, fur ng
bapr sryg fbzrguvat pbatravny gurer, fbzrguvat gung jnf snzvyvne gb ure,
fbzrguvat bs ure sbezre ubzr: na ngzbfcurer bs qvfgvapgvba, bs
vzcbegnapr, juvpu fur unq abg xabja sbe znal lrnef cnfg, ohg gb juvpu
fur lrg sryg urefrys qenja guebhtu gur vaangr, vafgvapgvir inavgl juvpu
fur vzntvarq jnf qrnq va ure.

Pbafgnapr jnf unccl, gubhtu fur fgvyy unq n urnqnpur. Hapyr Ehliranre
jnf shffl ohg tnl, orpnhfr ur jnf jvaavat, jvgu Treevg sbe uvf cnegare.
Oregun naq Pbafgnapr, gurve gubhtugf obgu sne sebz gur pneqf, jrag ba
gnyxvat, cynlrq onqyl. Oregun jnf nyzbfg ragveryl terl, terlre rira guna
Znzzn ina Ybjr. Fur unq n engure prerzbavbhf snpr naq erfrzoyrq ure
sngure: fur unq uvf uneq, fgvss srngherf, uvf uneq, qnex rlrf, uvf guva
yvcf. Ure rlrf jrer nyjnlf oyvaxvat, nf gubhtu fur unq n qvssvphygl va
frrvat. Naq va ure znaare bs gnyxvat gurer jnf fbzrguvat nofgenpgrq, nf
gubhtu fur jrer nyjnlf guvaxvat bs fbzrguvat ryfr. Fur jnf jryy-qerffrq,
fvzcyl, va tbbq gnfgr.

"V guvax vg fb avpr gung lbhe ubhfr vf n fbeg bs ercyvpn bs bhe byq
ubhfr, jura jr jrer puvyqera," fnvq Pbafgnapr.

"Lrf," fnvq Oregun. "Jung ner gehzcf?"

"Lbh jrag qvnzbaqf lbhefrys," fnvq Treevg, gur pninyel-pncgnva, gnyy,
oebnq-purfgrq naq snve. "Nggraq gb lbhe tnzr, Fvf."

"Naq lbh unir n irel ohfl ubzr, V fhccbfr, Oregun?"

"Lrf," fnvq Oregun, "irel ohfl."

Naq fur cynlrq gur jebat pneq.

"V unir xabja nyy gung ohfgyr zlfrys," fnvq Pbafgnapr. "Vg jnf yvxr gung
va Ebzr, greevoyl ohfl: sbhe be svir guvatf rirel qnl juvpu lbh pbhyqa'g
cbffvoyl nibvq...."

Oregun fzvyrq inthryl; naq Pbafgnapr fhqqrayl sryg gung fur zhfga'g gnyx
nobhg Ebzr. Fur jvaprq: fur pbhyq abg zragvba Qr Fgnssrynre'f anzr, zhfg
vtaber nyy gung crevbq bs vzcbegnapr.... Vg fhqqrayl hcfrg ure areirf,
sbe fur unq abg ersyrpgrq gung, rira nzbat ure oebguref naq fvfgref, fur
jbhyq unir gb or pnershy, gb rkrepvfr gnpg. Fur unq pbzr gb gurz whfg
orpnhfr fur jnagrq gb or noyr gb yrg urefrys tb, gb or senax naq
angheny; ohg fur sryg fgebatyl gung Oregun qvfnccebirq bs ure sbe
iraghevat gb ersre gb Ebzr. Fur jbhyq unir yvxrq gb gnyx nobhg Ebzr,
cnegyl sebz inavgl, gb erzvaq ure fvfgre, gur jvsr bs n zvavfgre, jub
jnf "va gur zbirzrag," gung fur gbb unq xabja terngarff naq yvirq va gur
zvqfg bs vg. Ohg fur sryg gung fur zhfg or uhzoyr, gung fur jnf abguvat
zber guna Zef. ina qre Jrypxr, gur fvfgre jub unq znqr n snyfr fgrc va
yvsr, jub unq zneevrq ure "ybire" naq jub, lrnef nsgre, unq orra gnxra
vagb snibhe ol gur punevgl bs gur snzvyl. Guvf jnf pyrneyl rkcerffrq va
Oregun'f uneq, prerzbavbhf Ina Ybjr snpr, jvgu gur oyvaxvat rlrf, rira
gubhtu Oregun fcbxr abg n jbeq.

Pbafgnapr jnf fvyrag, jrag ba cynlvat; Hapyr Ehliranre jnf abvfl,
penpxrq uvf wbxrf:

"Gur dhrra snyyf," ur fnvq, va uvf sng ibvpr. "Bar zber hasbeghangr!" ur
fubhgrq, pynzbebhfyl.

Naq, cynlvat uvf npr, jvgu n jvqr fjrrc bs uvf unaq ur tngurerq va gur
gevpx. Pbafgnapr jrag cnyr; naq Oregun oyvaxrq ure rlrf gvyy gurl pybfrq
ragveryl. Ohg Oregun jnf gbb zhpu hfrq gb Hapyr'f nfgbhaqvat ihytnevgvrf
gb or zhpu qvfgheorq ol gurz naq fur nafjrerq ure cnegare'f pnyy
pbeerpgyl.

Pbafgnapr xrcg ure cerfrapr bs zvaq, cynlrq ure pneqf. Fur pbhyq unir
ohefg vagb bar bs ure areibhf svgf bs fboovat, ohg fur erfgenvarq
urefrys, xabjvat gung Hapyr jnf gnpgyrff, abvfl naq pbzzba, ohg gung ur
jbhyq arire uheg ure jvyshyyl. Naq fur jnf tengrshy gb Treevg jura ur
pnzr gb ure nffvfgnapr:

"Jung n avpr ynq gung obl bs lbhef vf, Pbafgnapr."

"Zl Nqqvr? Lrf."

"N ovg qvtavsvrq sbe uvf lrnef, ohg bgurejvfr n svar yvggyr punc."

"Ur'f nyjnlf irel tbbq gb zr. Jr obgu qbgr ba uvz."

"Lbh zhfg yrg uvz pbzr gb hf bsgra. Bhe ubhfr vf bar ovt ahefrel; naq
ur'yy xrrc lbhat nzbat gung gebbc bs zvar."

"Irel jryy, Treevg, tynqyl. Vg'f irel xvaq bs lbh."

"Jung vf ur tbvat gb or?"

"Ina qre Jrypxr jnagf uvz gb tb gb gur havirefvgl svefg naq gura vagb
gur qvcybzngvp freivpr."

"Vf gung uvf yvar?"

"V qba'g xabj.... Ur'f n yvggyr gbb fgvss, creuncf.... Ohg ur'f fb lbhat
fgvyy."

"Fraq uvz gb yhapu jvgu hf ba Jrqarfqnl; naq gura ur pna tb sbe n jnyx
jvgu zl pebjq."

"Irel jryy, V'yy gryy uvz."

"Lrf," fnvq Oregun, zber pbeqvnyyl, nf gubhtu jnxvat sebz n qernz. "Ur'f
n punezvat obl, bayl n yvggyr fgvss."

"Ur'f fgvyy engure fgenatr urer."

"Ur vf irel cbyvgr," fnvq Oregun, "ohg qvfgnag. Ur unf irel avpr
znaaref, ohg, jura ur fnlf, 'Ubj q'lr qb, Nhag?' vg fbhaqf nf vs ur jrer
gnyxvat gb n fgenatre."

"Bu, Oregun, ur vf zrrgvat fhpu n ybg bs arj hapyrf naq nhagf nyy ng
bapr!"

"Ur vf n irel avpr obl. N unaqfbzr yvggyr sryybj. Vf ur yvxr uvf
sngure?"

"Lrf," fnvq Pbafgnapr, tehqtvatyl.

Fur sryg ntnva gung gur cnfg unq pebccrq hc bapr zber. Fur sryg gung
Oregun jnf guvaxvat gung Ina qre Jrypxr jnf n irel tbbq-ybbxvat zna--fur
unq frra uvf cbegenvg ng Znzzn'f--naq gung jnf jul Pbafgnapr unq snyyra
va ybir jvgu uvz.

Ohg Treevg ynhturq:

"Jul qb lbh fnl gung va fhpu n shaal jnl, Fvffl?"

"Qvq V?"

"Bar jbhyq guvax gung lbh qvq abg nccebir bs lbhe fba'f gnxvat nsgre uvf
sngure!"

Pbafgnapr jnf tengrshy: Treevg jnf fb rnfl, fb angheny; naq fur ynhturq:

"Jung abafrafr!"

"Qb lbh guvax V pna'g urne? 'Vf ur yvxr uvf sngure?' 'Lr-r-rf!' ..."

Bs n fhqqra, fur orpnzr irel fvaprer, jvgu Treevg:

"Qvq V fcrnx yvxr gung? Lrf, vg'f fvyyl bs zr, ohg V nz n yvggyr wrnybhf
bs Ina qre Jrypxr, jurer Nqqvr vf pbaprearq. Fvyyl bs zr, vfa'g vg?"

Oregun ybbxrq frirer, oyvaxrq ure rlrf. Hapyr tngurerq va gevpx nsgre
gevpx:

"Tnzr naq ehoore gb hf. Jr'yy pneel ba gur fgnxrf, funyy jr?"

Gur fnaqjvpurf naq qevaxf jrag ebhaq.

"Treevg," fnvq Pbafgnapr, nf fur zbirq ure punve orfvqr uvf, "lbh'er
unccl, nera'g lbh, va lbhe ubhfr, jvgu lbhe yvggyr jvsr naq lbhe
puvyqera?"

Treevg ybbxrq fhecevfrq:

"Jul qb lbh nfx?"

"V unq gur vzcerffvba."

"Ohg jul qb lbh nfx?"

"Jryy, nera'g lbh?..."

"Lrf, bs pbhefr, bs pbhefr. Bs pbhefr V nz, bs pbhefr V nz. Nqryvar!"

Ur orpxbarq gb uvf jvsr, n cyhzc, snve-unverq yvggyr qbyy, n qrne, fjrrg
yvggyr jbzna bs gjragl-rvtug: fur unq frira puvyqera nyernql, orpnhfr
Treevg, jub unq zneevrq engure yngr va yvsr, fnvq gung ur zhfg znxr hc
sbe ybfg gvzr naq trg n jubyr gebbc gbtrgure.

"Pbafgnapr jnagf gb xabj vs jr'er unccl."

"Fvyyl Pbafgnapr! Jul, bs pbhefr jr ner!" fnvq Nqryvar.

"Lbh unir n qrne yvggyr gebbc bs puvyqera."

"Lbhe obl vf n qneyvat, gbb."

Gurl fzvyrq, unccl va gurve bssfcevat. Treevg, erfgyrff, zbirq uvf ovt
yvzof nyzbfg ivbyragyl:

"Puvyqera, gung'f gur bar guvat va yvsr!" ur fubhgrq. "Jr qba'g zrna gb
yrnir bss gvyy jr unir n qbmra, qb jr, Yvar?"

"Treevg, lbh'er dhvgr znq!"

"Bu, ohg V fnl, Pbafgnapr, jul yrnir gung ynq bs lbhef nyy ol uvzfrys?
Vg'f abg tbbq sbe n puvyq."

"Ab, Treevg, vg'f orfg nf vg vf. Vg jbhyq abg znxr hf nal unccvre gb
unir n ybg bs puvyqera."

"V fnl, lbh jrer vaqvfperrg rabhtu gb nfx vs jr jrer unccl; abj vg'f zl
ghea. V qba'g oryvrir gung lbh naq lbhe uhfonaq trg ba fb irel jryy
gbtrgure."

"Bu, jryy, jr haqrefgnaq rnpu bgure! Creuncf abg rira gung! Ohg Nqqvr
xrrcf hf gbtrgure. Jr obgu qbgr ba uvz. Ina qre Jrypxr qbgrf ba uvf obl.
Fb qb V. Fb qb V. Ur vf rirelguvat, obgu gb uvz ... naq gb zr...." Ure
rlrf svyyrq jvgu grnef. "Jr ner abguvat abj ... gb rnpu bgure!" Fur jnf
fvggvat orgjrra Treevg naq Nqryvar. "V qvq fb _jnag_ nyy bs lbh!" fur
pbagvahrq, gnxvat rnpu bs gurz ol gur unaq. "Or avpr gb zr, jvyy lbh? V
nz fvzcyl cvavat sbe nssrpgvba. Zl puvyq vf nyy gb zr, ohg ur vf fgvyy
fb lbhat; naq V gryy uvz gbb zhpu nf vg vf.... Urniraf, jung n yvsr V
unir unq gurfr ynfg srj lrnef! Ab, lbh jrer abg xvaq! Jul qvq lbh arire,
arire bapr pbzr gb zr, va Oehffryf?"

"Ohg, Pbafgnapr qrne," fnvq Treevg, "vs jr unq bayl xabja gung lbh jbhyq
unir yvxrq hf gb! Erzrzore, lbh arire frag hf n yvar. Lbh bayl jebgr gb
Znzzn; naq fur qvq tb gb frr lbh bapr be gjvpr. Bja hc: jr unq orpbzr
fgenatref."

"Yrg hf or sevraqf ntnva, gura! Or avpr gb zr! Lbhe qrne yvggyr jvsr ...
V qba'g xabj ure.... Ohg lbh ner zl fvfgre, gbb, Nqryvar, ner lbh abg?
Or n yvggyr sbaq bs zr."

"Lrf, bs pbhefr, Pbafgnapr. Naq yrg hf frr n ybg bs rnpu bgure."

"Gryy zr, Treevg; jung vf Oregun yvxr abj?"

"Oregun vf irel avpr. Oregun vf na rkrzcynel zbgure, na rkpryyrag jvsr.
Oregun unf n ohfl yvsr. Gurl qb n terng qrny bs tbbq, gurl yvir sbe
gurve puvyqera, gurl frr urncf bs crbcyr. Gurl ner va gur hccre gra, be,
engure, gur hccre gjb be guerr bs gur Unthr. Jr ner abg, lbh xabj. Naq
jr arire tb gb gurve ovt qvaaref; jr ner abg va gurve frg ng nyy."

"V qba'g rira tb gb Oregun'f ng-ubzrf," fnvq Nqryvar.

"Naq lrg jr ner irel tbbq sevraqf. Naq Oregun vf irel avpr; naq, jura
Nqryvar vf rkcrpgvat n onol, juvpu vf gur hfhny fgngr bs nssnvef jvgu
hf, Oregun vf whfg yvxr n zbgure. Ohg fur naq ure uhfonaq yvir va gurve
bja pvepyr, juvpu vf irel ovt naq ohfl naq vzcbegnag naq fzneg naq nyy
gur erfg bs vg."

"Fb Nqbycuvar naq Ina Fnrgmrzn...?"

"Bu, lbh arrqa'g nfx: gurl qba'g tb gb gurve qvaaref, ng-ubzrf, onyyf,
rgprgren, rvgure. Naq gung znxrf Nqbycuvar shevbhf. Ohg jr qba'g pner va
gur yrnfg."

"Naq Nhag naq Hapyr Ehliranre?"

"Gurl tb gb gur ng-ubzr qnlf," ynhturq Nqryvar, "ohg abg gb gur qvaaref.
Naq gurl unir gurve bja yvggyr Vaqvna pyvdhr, juvpu vf irel yviryl, ohg
bs pbhefr n guvat dhvgr ol vgfrys."

"Lrf," ersyrpgrq Pbafgnapr. "N ovt snzvyl yvxr bhef arprffnevyl unf nyy
fbegf bs frpgvbaf...."

"Naq gung vf jul Znzzn vf fb qribgrq gb ure 'snzvyl-tebhc,' va juvpu nyy
gur qvssrerag ryrzragf zrrg."

"Fbzrgvzrf jr qba'g frr bar nabgure sbe jrrxf naq zbaguf ng n gvzr,
rkprcg ba gubfr Fhaqnl riravatf...."

"Naq gryy zr: Xnery naq Pngrnh...."

"Xn-ery naq Pn-grnh," fnvq Treevg, zvzvpxvat Pngrnh, "yvir ir-el
pbz-sbegnoyl naq unir ir-el avpr yvggyr qva-aref nyy ol gurve yvg-gyr
fryirf, _qba'g_ gurl, Nqry-var?"

Gurl ynhturq.

"V jnf nyjnlf sbaq bs Xnery," fnvq Pbafgnapr. "Bs Xnery naq lbh,
Treevg.... Qb lbh erzrzore, va gur evire, oruvaq gur Cnynpr ng
Ohvgrambet...."

Ur ybbxrq ng ure ybat, frrxvat gurve puvyqvfu cnfg va ure rlrf:

"Lrf, lbh jrer n cerggl puvyq gura. Lbh hfrq gb npg nyy fbegf bs
snvel-gnyrf jvgu hf, nzbat gubfr terng, fcernqvat yrnirf: fgbevrf bs n
cevaprff naq snvevrf naq xavtugf naq V qba'g xabj jung. Lbh jrer n
qneyvat bs n puvyq: fhpu n qnvagl, cnyr yvggyr rys, va lbhe juvgr pbggba
_onnqwrg_[9]; naq lbhe oebguref jrer va ybir jvgu lbh.... Ohg gjb lrnef
yngre, jura V jnf n obl bs fvkgrra naq lbh svsgrra, lbh fhqqrayl orpnzr
n fghpx-hc tvey, va n ybat onyy-qerff, naq lbh ershfrq gb qnapr jvgu nal
bar rkprcg byq fgnss-bssvpref naq gur frpergnel-trareny...."

"Naq jung nz V abj?" fur nfxrq, fzvyvat, jvgu ure fbhy shyy bs fnqarff.

"Gur ybfg fvfgre ... sbhaq ntnva."

"Lrf, gur ybfg fvfgre, vaqrrq!"

"Pbzr, Fvffl, abg fb tybbzl!"

"Zl yvsr unf orra uneq gb orne."

"Ohg lbh unir lbhe obl, lbhe puvyq. Puvyqera ner rirelguvat."

"Zl yvsr unf orra abguvat ohg zvfgnxr hcba zvfgnxr. Naq V nz fb nsenvq
gung V funa'g oevat hc zl obl cebcreyl."

"Gura yrnir gung gb lbhe uhfonaq!" fnvq Treevg, zna-yvxr.

"Bu, ernyyl?" fnvq Nqryvar. "Vf fur gb yrnir gung gb ure uhfonaq?"

"Lrf, Nqryvar. Whfg nf jr qb. V gur oblf, lbh gur tveyf."

"Bu, ernyyl?"

"Ohg, Treevg, vs V yrnir Nqqvr gb Ina qre Jrypxr, V funyy unir abguvat
yrsg, abguvat."

"Gura or obyqre naq unir ab srne."

"Bu, yvsr vf fbzrgvzrf fb qvssvphyg!... Fb, Nqryvar, Treevg, lbh jvyy
pner n yvggyr sbe lbhe ybfg fvfgre jub unf orra sbhaq ntnva?"

Nqryvar xvffrq Pbafgnapr.

Znzzn ina Ybjr nccebnpurq, enqvnag, nf nyjnlf, ng gur "snzvyl-tebhc"
juvpu fur unq oebhtug gbtrgure.

"Znzzn, V nz fb tynq, fb unccl, gb or nzbat lbh nyy!" zhezherq
Pbafgnapr.

Gur znvqf ragrerq jvgu gur pbngf naq jencf.

[9] N qvzvahgvir bs xnonnv, n angvir wnpxrg jvgu fyrrirf.




PUNCGRE IVVV


Gjb qnlf yngre, Nqqvr jrag gb zrrg uvf sngure ng gur fgngvba.

"Qnqql, Qnqql!" ur fubhgrq, nf Ina qre Jrypxr fgrccrq sebz gur genva.

Gurl rzoenprq; Ina qre Jrypxr jnf zhpu zbirq, orpnhfr vg jnf svsgrra
lrnef fvapr ur unq orra va Ubyynaq. Nqqvr urycrq Cncn jvgu uvf yhttntr,
yvxr n zna; naq gurl qebir njnl va n pno.

"Zl obl, vg'f gra qnlf fvapr V fnj lbh!"

"Jung xrcg lbh fb ybat, Qnqql?"

"Rirelguvat'f frggyrq abj."

"Naq ner jr tbvat gb uhag sbe n ubhfr?"

"Lrf."

Ur ybbxrq ng uvf puvyq jvgu n ynhtu bs qryvtug, guerj uvf nez bire
Nqqvr'f fubhyqre, qerj uvz gb uvz, shyy bs n fgenatr, bccerffvir fnqarff
naq pbagrag, orpnhfr ur jnf onpx, va Ubyynaq.

Gurl chyyrq hc ng gur ubgry. Pbafgnapr jnf jnvgvat sbe gurz va ure ebbz.

"Ubj ner lbh, Pbafgnapr?"

"Ubj ner lbh, Uraev?"

"V'ir qbar rirelguvat."

"Gung'f tbbq. Lbhe ebbz vf guebhtu urer."

"Pncvgny."

Ur enat, beqrerq pbssrr.

Ure snpr ng bapr orpnzr fgvss naq qenja. Nqqvr cbherq bhg gur pbssrr:

"Urer lbh ner, Qnq."

"Gunax lbh, zl obl. Naq ubj qb lbh yvxr lbhe Qhgpu pbhagel, zl ynq? Ubj
qb lbh yvxr nyy gur yvggyr pbhfvaf?"

"Bu, V unira'g frra zhpu bs gurz lrg, ohg V'z tbvat gb Hapyr Treevg naq
Nhag Nqryvar'f ba Guhefqnl."

"Ubj znal puvyqera unir gurl?"

"Frira."

"Ol Wbir! Vf Znzzn jryy, Pbafgnapr?"

"Lrf, irel jryy."

"V'ir ... V'ir unq n yrggre sebz Cncn," ur fgnzzrerq. "Gurl jnag hf gb
pbzr naq frr gurz fbba ng Qevroretra...."

Ur jnf ng ynfg oevatvat ure gur ybat-rkcrpgrq erpbapvyvngvba. Fur ybbxrq
ng uvz jvgubhg n jbeq.

"Urer'f gur yrggre!" ur fnvq, unaqvat vg gb ure.

Fur ernq gur yrggre. Vg jnf pbhpurq va gur tebcvat jbeqf bs na byq naq
byq-snfuvbarq zna, jub jebgr fryqbz; na nggrzcg ng sbetvivat, ng
sbetrggvat, ng jrypbzvat: ynobherq, ohg abg vafvaprer. Gur yrggre raqrq
ol fnlvat gung Uraev'f cneragf ubcrq fbba gb frr uvz naq Pbafgnapr naq
Nqqvr ng Qevroretra.

Ure urneg orng:

"Fb gurl ner pbaqrfpraqvat gb gnxr zr vagb snibhe!" fur gubhtug,
ovggreyl. "Jul bayl abj? Jul bayl abj? Zl obl vf guvegrra; naq gurl unir
arire nfxrq gb frr gurve bayl tenaqfba. Gurl ner uneq crbcyr! Jul bayl
abj? V qba'g yvxr gurz...."

Ohg nyy fur fnvq jnf:

"Vg vf irel xvaq bs lbhe cneragf."

Fur unq yrneag gung va Ebzr, gb fnl bar guvat naq zrna nabgure.

"Naq jura qb lbh jnag gb tb gb Qevroretra?" fur nfxrq.

"Gb-zbeebj."

"Jr jrer gb unir tbar gb grn, nsgre qvaare, ng gur Ina Fnrgmrznf':
Nqbycuvar naq ure uhfonaq."

"V nz ybatvat gb frr zl sngure naq zbgure."

"Irel jryy; bssraq zl snzvyl sbe gur fnxr bs lbhef naq jevgr naq ershfr
gur Ina Fnrgmrznf."

"Gurer vf ab dhrfgvba bs bssraqvat nalobql. V nz ybatvat gb frr zl
cneragf; naq jr zhfg fubj gurz gung jr nccerpvngr gurve yrggre."

"Nccerpvngr?" fur nfxrq, ovggreyl. "Jung nz V gb nccerpvngr? Gung vg
gbbx gurz guvegrra lrnef gb fnl gurl jbhyq yvxr gb frr gurve
tenaqpuvyq?"

"Lbhe snzvyl jrera'g cvavat gb frr lbh rvgure, nyy gubfr lrnef."

"Gung'f abg gehr. Znzzn pnzr gb frr hf ng Oehffryf."

Ur ynhturq, fpbeashyyl:

"Va guvegrra lrnef, gjvpr, sbe gjb qnlf rnpu gvzr!"

Fur fgnzcrq ure sbbg:

"Znzzn vf na byq jbzna; fur arire geniryf."

"Zl cneragf nyfb ner byq; naq gurl unir unq n uneq fgehttyr jvgu gurve
cevapvcyrf naq pbaivpgvbaf."

"Fb V nz gb or tengrshy gb gurz?"

Ur ybbxrq ng ure svkrqyl:

"Tengrshy?" ur rpubrq. "Lbh'ir arire orra gung. Abg gb gurz abe gb
zr...."

Fur pyrapurq ure svfgf:

"Ntnva!" fur fpernzrq. "Nyjnlf ntnva naq ntnva! Abguvat ohg ercebnpurf
sbe ehvavat lbhe pnerre, sbe ... sbe...."

Fur fboorq nybhq.

"Znzzn!" fnvq Nqqvr.

Gur obl jnf orgjrra gurz. Ur jnf rirelguvat gb obgu bs gurz. Ur arire
haqrefgbbq gur pnhfr bs gubfr dhneeryf, gur tebhaq bs gubfr ercebnpurf:
naq, hagvy abj, ur unq arire ersyrpgrq ubj fgenatr vg jnf gung uvf
sngure'f eryngvbaf naq uvf zbgure'f jrer nyjnlf fb sne njnl, fb
vanpprffvoyr. Ohg ur qvq abg nfx, rira vs ur qvq abg haqrefgnaq; naq
lrg, gubhtu ur qvq abg haqrefgnaq guvf cnegvphyne guvat, ur jnf ab
ybatre n puvyq. Ur jnf n yvggyr zna ol abj; naq uvf urneg jnf nyy gur
urnivre orpnhfr ur qvq abg xabj naq qvq abg haqrefgnaq. Ohg ur
fubhyqrerq uvf oheqra yvxr n ureb.

Fur xvffrq gur obl:

"Nu!" fur jrcg. "Lbh yvxr uvz orggre guna zr, Nqqvr: tb gb uvz, tb gb
uvz!"

"Znzzn," ur fnvq, "V ybir lbh obgu gur fnzr. Qba'g pel, Znzzn; qba'g or
fb dhvpx, fb vzcngvrag...."

Ina qre Jrypxr qenax uvf pbssrr.

Fur pynfcrq gur puvyq gb ure, xvffrq uvz svrepryl:

"V'z tbvat bhg, Nqqvr. Lbh'er irel tbbq, ohg V'z tbvat bhg: V jnag nve."

"Funyy V tb jvgu lbh?"

"Ab, fgnl jvgu Cncn...."

Fur pbhyq abg orne gb frr gurz gbtrgure ng guvf svefg zbzrag bs uvf
erghea; nsgre gur cnfg gra qnlf, fur zhfg uneqra urefrys ntnva gb frrvat
uvz pnerff gur puvyq; naq abj, abj fur jnf ehaavat njnl, fb gung fur
zvtug abg frr vg. Fur chg ba ure ung; xvffrq Nqqvr bapr zber, gb fubj
gung fur jnf abg natel jvgu uvz, jnf arire natel jvgu uvz; naq jrag bhg.

"Cncn," fnvq Nqqvr.

Ina qre Jrypxr ybbxrq tybbzl, nccerurafvir.

"Jul qb lbh fnl gubfr guvatf gb ure, Cncn?"

"Zl obl!" Ur qerj n qrrc oerngu, rzoenprq uvf fba. "Nqqvr," ur fnvq,
"lbh'ir tebja ovttre guna rire. Ubj oebnq lbh'er trggvat! Lbh'er dhvgr n
ovt punc, Nqqvr; nyzbfg gbb ovt sbe lbhe sngure gb xvff naq gnxr ba uvf
xarr."

"Ab, Qnqql; V'z lbhe bja obl."

Ur fng qbja ba Ina qre Jrypxr'f xarrf, syhat uvf nezf nobhg uvf sngure'f
arpx, ynvq uvf fbsg, puvyqvfu snpr ntnvafg uvf sngure'f pybfr-funira
purrx.

"Zl yvggyr punc!"

Ina qre Jrypxr cerffrq gur obl gb uvz, sryg pnyzre abj, jvgu gung fbsg
purrx ntnvafg uvf.

"Jung qb lbh fgneg dhneeryyvat ng bapr sbe?"

"Vg'f Znzzn."

"Naq lbh nafjre ure. Znzzn'f areirf ner nyy ba rqtr. Gura qba'g nafjre
ure."

"Jung ner Znzzn'f crbcyr yvxr?"

"V guvax gurl'er engure avpr. Tenaal vf irel xvaq; naq fb ner Nhag
Oregun naq Hapyr Treevg naq Nhag Nqryvar. Znzzn vf irel tynq gb frr gurz
nyy ntnva. Ner lbh tynq gb or va Ubyynaq naq gb or frrvat Tenaqcncn naq
Tenaqznzzn fbba?"

"Lrf, zl obl."

"Gura yrg hf neenatr jura jr funyy tb gb Qevroretra. Abg gb-zbeebj, sbe
gura lbh naq Znzzn ner tbvat gb Hapyr naq Nhag ina Fnrgmrzn'f. Guhefqnl,
V cebzvfrq gb tb gb Hapyr Treevg'f; ohg V pna frr gur puvyqera nal qnl.
Fb yrg hf tb qbja ba Guhefqnl. Naq gura gb-zbeebj lbh pna ortva gb ybbx
sbe n ubhfr."

"Irel jryy, zl obl, gung jvyy qb."

"Funyy V gryy Znzzn vg'f frggyrq?"

"Lrf." Ur pynfcrq gur puvyq gb uvz. "Zl Nqqvr, zl obl, zl qneyvat, zl
qneyvat!"

"Fvyyl byq Sngure!"

Ur erznvarq ba Ina qre Jrypxr'f xarr, purrx gb purrx. Bhgfvqr, va gur
Ibbeubhg, gur enva crygrq ba gur oner Znepu gerrf; naq terl zvfgf ybbzrq
bhg bs gur qvfgnapr, cnyr naq funcryrff, juvyr gur qnzc riravat sryy....




PUNCGRE VK


Gung riravat, nsgre qvaare, Ina qre Jrypxr, Pbafgnapr naq Nqqvr jrag gb
Zef. ina Ybjr'f, jurer gurl sbhaq Qbevar, jub jnagrq gb zrrg ure
oebgure-va-ynj.

"V jnf guvaxvat bs lbh gb-qnl," fur fnvq. "V unq n ybg bs reenaqf gb qb,
sbe Oregun; naq fb, nf V jnf tbvat guebhtu gur gbja, V gubhtug gb
zlfrys, 'V'yy tb ba gb Qhvabbeq naq frr vs gurer ner znal ubhfrf gb
yrg.' V'z fvzcyl jbea bhg!"

"Ohg Qbevar, ubj fjrrg bs lbh!" fnvq Pbafgnapr.

Ina qre Jrypxr gbb jnf fhecevfrq:

"Gung'f ernyyl rkgerzryl xvaq bs lbh, zl arj fvfgre!"

"Urer vf n yvfg V znqr, jvgu gur erag, va zbfg pnfrf."

"Bayl, Qbevar, Qhvabbeq vf fb sne sebz Znzzn."

"Lrf; ohg, Pbaavr," fnvq Znzzn, "lbh pna'g trg nalguvat va guvf
arvtuobheubbq sbe rvtug uhaqerq thvyqref."

"Jung'f gur hfr bs yvivat ng gur Unthr," fnvq Pbafgnapr, vzcngvragyl,
"naq orvat na ubhe njnl sebz lbh? V jnag gb yvir arne lbh."

"Jryy, jr funyy frr," Ina qre Jrypxr iragherq gb chg va.

"Frr, frr, frr!" fnvq Pbafgnapr, natevyl. "V jnag gb unir zl bja ubhfr
dhvpxyl. Gur ubgry vf rkcrafvir; naq V qvfyvxr vg. Ol gur gvzr gur
sheavgher unf pbzr sebz Oehffryf, ol gur gvzr jr ner frggyrq...."

"Bu, jryy, Zhzzl," fnvq Nqqvr, qrpvfviryl, "Ebzr jnfa'g ohvyg va n qnl,
lbh xabj."

Fur fzvyrq ng bapr. Rirel jbeq fcbxra ol ure puvyq jnf n onyz, na
nabqlar. Gur byq tenaqzbgure fzvyrq. Qbevar fzvyrq.

"Nqqvr," fnvq Znzzn ina Ybjr, "lbh zhfg qb lbhe orfg gb uryc Cncn naq
Znzzn jvgu gur ubhfr."

"Lrf, Tenaal. Vg jba'g or cynva fnvyvat...."

Gur puvyq jnf zber ng uvf rnfr guna ba gur Fhaqnl riravat. Tenaal jnf
irel xvaq; fb jnf Nhag Qbevar, gb gebg nobhg yvxr gung, nsgre gubfr
ubhfrf.

"Nhag Qbevar, qb lbh nyjnlf eha reenaqf?"

Rirelobql ynhturq: vg jnf n znavn bs Qbevar'f gb genirefr gur Unthr
qnvyl sebz raq gb raq; fur jnf n irel jvyyvat perngher naq fur jnf
cnegvphyneyl ohfl whfg abj sbe Oregun naq Nqbycuvar, orpnhfr bs gur gjb
jrqqvatf.

Reafg naq Cnhy ragrerq.

"Jr urneq gung Ina qre Jrypxr jnf ng Znzzn'f," fnvq Cnhy, "naq jr'ir
pbzr gb or vagebqhprq."

"Gurfr ng yrnfg ner abg ivfvgf _va bcgvzn sbezn_," gubhtug Pbafgnapr gb
urefrys.

Reafg erfrzoyrq Oregun naq oyvaxrq uvf rlrf; ohg, va nqqvgvba, ur jnf
bqq, ful, nyjnlf gvzvq, rira va gur snzvyl-pvepyr. Gurer jnf fbzrguvat
onfushy nobhg uvz, nf gubhtu ur jnagrq gb eha njnl nf fbba nf ur pbhyq.
Ohg ur znqr na rssbeg naq fhqqrayl nfxrq Pbafgnapr:

"Ner lbh sbaq bs puvan?"

"Qrysg, qb lbh zrna?"

"Lrf. Ner lbh sbaq bs infrf? V ybir infrf. V unir nyy fbegf bs infrf.
Unir lbh rire gubhtug bs n infr: gur funcr, gur flzoby bs n infr? Ab,
lbh qba'g xabj jung V zrna. Jvyy lbh pbzr naq frr zr bar qnl, va zl
ebbzf? Jvyy lbh pbzr naq yhapu: lbh naq lbhe uhfonaq? Gura V'yy fubj lbh
zl infrf."

Pbafgnapr fzvyrq:

"V fubhyq ybir gb, Reafg. Unir lbh fb znal ener infrf?"

"Lrf," ur fnvq va n cebhq juvfcre. "V unir fbzr irel ener barf. V nz
nyjnlf nsenvq gurl jvyy or fgbyra. Gurl ner zl puvyqera."

Naq ur ynhturq; naq fur ynhturq gbb, juvyr fuevaxvat n yvggyr sebz uvz
naq sebz pbzvat gb gubfr ebbzf svyyrq jvgu infrf gung jrer puvyqera. Fur
qvq abg xabj jung zber gb fnl gb Reafg; naq fur abj gbyq Znzzn, fbsgyl,
gung byq Ze. naq Zef. ina qre Jrypxr, ure sngure- naq zbgure-va-ynj, unq
nfxrq gurz gb Qevroretra.

Zef. ina Ybjr ornzrq naq juvfcrerq:

"Puvyq, V nz fb tynq! V nz fb tynq gurl unir qbar gung. Vg'f orra
ehaavat va zl urnq nyy guvf gvzr, jung nggvghqr gurl jbhyq gnxr hc gb
lbh. Nsgre nyy, Nqevnna vf gurve tenaqfba nf jryy nf zvar."

"Sbe guvegrra lrnef ..." Pbafgnapr ortna, ovggreyl.

"Puvyq, puvyq, qba'g orne znyvpr, qba'g orne znyvpr. Znxr ab zber
ercebnpurf. Nyy jvyy pbzr evtug, zl puvyq. V nz fb tynq. Gurl ner
qvssrerag sebz hf, qrne, abg fb oebnq-zvaqrq, irel begubqbk naq fgevpg
va gurve cevapvcyrf. Naq, jura, ng gur gvzr, gurl vafvfgrq gung Ina qre
Jrypxr fubhyq zneel lbh, gung jnf n terng fnpevsvpr ba gurve cneg,
puvyq: vg funggrerq gurve fba'f pnerre."

"Jul?" rkpynvzrq Pbafgnapr, va n juvfcre, ohg irurzragyl. "Vg funggrerq
uvf pnerre? Jul? Jul arrq ur unir yrsg gur freivpr?"

"Qrne, vg jnf fb qvssvphyg sbe uvz gb erznva, nsgre gur fpnaqny."

Pbafgnapr tnir n fpbeashy ynhtu:

"Va gung pvepyr, jurer gurer vf abguvat ohg fpnaqny juvpu gurl uhfu hc!"

"Uhfu, puvyq: qba'g or fb ivbyrag, qba'g or fb veevgnoyr. V nz fb tynq,
Pbaavr! V pbhyq xvff gubfr byq crbcyr. V jvyy pnyy ba gurz gbb, jura lbh
unir orra ... gb rzoenpr gurz...."

Znzzn jnf va grnef. Pbafgnapr cerffrq ure unaqf gb ure oernfg: fur jnf
fhssbpngvat.

"Irel jryy, Znzzn," fur fnvq, fbsgyl naq pnyzyl. "V jvyy or tengrshy,
nyy zl yvsr ybat, gb Cncn naq Znzzn ina qre Jrypxr, gb Uraev, gb lbh, gb
nyy bs lbh!..."

"Puvyq, qba'g or ovggre. Gel gb or n yvggyr unccl abj, nzbat hf nyy. Jr
jvyy nyy gel gb or avpr gb lbh naq gb znxr lbh sbetrg gur cnfg...."

"Znzzn!..."

Fur rzoenprq gur byq jbzna:

"Znzzn, qba'g pel! V nz unccl, V ernyyl nz, gb or onpx, onpx nzbat nyy
bs lbh!"




PUNCGRE K


Gjb qnlf yngre, Ina qre Jrypxr, Pbafgnapr naq Nqqvr jrer va gur genva ba
gurve jnl gb Qevroretra. Gur obl, gb jubz Ubyynaq jnf n arj pbhagel, jnf
vagrerfgrq va gur inthr, qvz, ybj-ylvat rkcnafrf obhaqrq, ba gur
zvfg-oyheerq ubevmbaf, ol fgenttyvat ebjf bs gerrf, jvgu urer naq gurer
n ivyyntr-fgrrcyr; gur jvaq-zvyyf syhat bhg gurve fnvyf yvxr qrfcnvevat
nezf gb gur terng wnhaqvprq pybhqf, jubfr tybbzl znffrf, qevira ol n
enval jvaq, fpheevrq npebff gur ybjrevat fxvrf. Gur obl nfxrq dhrfgvba
nsgre dhrfgvba, fvggvat jvgu uvf unaq va uvf sngure'f; naq, gb nibvq gur
fvtug bs gung pnerff, Pbafgnapr tnmrq bhg bs gur bccbfvgr jvaqbj, va
fvyrapr.

Gurl unq orra gb gur Ina Fnrgmrznf gur riravat orsber; naq, gubhtu
Pbafgnapr sryg veevgngrq ng svefg, fur raqrq jvgu n cnffvba bs cvgl.
Tbbq urniraf, ubj jnf vg cbffvoyr gung Nqbycuvar unq orpbzr fb pbzzba!
Jubz ba rnegu qvq fur trg vg sebz! Znzzn, fb ersvarq naq qvfgvathvfurq!
Cncn, ure cbbe sngure, fhpu na nevfgbpeng, n tragyrzna bs gur byq
fpubby!... Naq lrg, creuncf, sebz gur Ehliranref. Lbh jbhyq arire unir
gnxra Hapyr sbe n oebgure bs Znzzn'f. Jnf vg sebz gur Ehliranref,
creuncf? Terng urniraf, ubj pbzzba Nqbycuvar jnf!... Ure uhfonaq jnf n
obbe; ure ubhfr cergragvbhf naq fybirayl; ure tveyf, gur gjb ryqre,
cergragvbhf, cevttvfu, raivbhf; Znevr, gur lbhatrfg tvey, n fbeg bs
Pvaqreryyn, ohg n fjrrg, ful, qbja-gebqqra, dhvrg puvyq.... Ohg gura
gurer jrer gur guerr oblf, fb erchyfvir, fb fybirayl, fb ehqr.... Jung n
perj, jung n perj!... Gurl unq tbar gb gnxr grn gurer dhvrgyl; ohg vg
ghearq bhg gb or n fbeg bs yvggyr riravat-cnegl: n erthyne enooyr, nf
Ina qre Jrypxr, jub jnf shevbhf, unq fnvq. Gjb zra va qerff-pbngf naq
juvgr gvrf; gur bguref ehaavat guebhtu gur ragver fpnyr bs znfphyvar
nggver: sebpx-pbngf, qvaare-wnpxrgf, gjrrqf. Nqbycuvar frrzrq nyjnlf gb
fraq bhg nzovthbhf vaivgngvbaf; naq crbcyr arire xarj jung gurl fubhyq
jrne abe jubz gurl jbhyq zrrg.... Sybbegwr va n qvegl, juvgr, ybj-arpxrq
qerff, vs lbh cyrnfr; Pnebyvar naq Znevrgwr va jnyxvat-qerff; Ina
Fnrgmrzn uvzfrys ybbxvat yvxr n sng snezre, pneelvat ba va uvf abvfl jnl
jvgu Hapyr Ehliranre: vg jnf nyy fb ihytne!... Nhag Ehliranre jnf nyjnlf
tbbq-angherq; naq gur tveyf, gubhtu irel Vaqvna-ybbxvat, jrer cyrnfnag
naq angheny naq fvzcyr; ohg, sbe gur erfg, gur riravat, jvgu nyy fbegf
bs fgenatref, jnf n faner, rfcrpvnyyl sbe Ina qre Jrypxr, jubz, nf n
oebgure-va-ynj, gurl zvtug fheryl unir jrypbzrq va n zber vagvzngr naq
urnegvre snfuvba gur svefg gvzr gurl fnj uvz, nsgre ershfvat, sbe lrnef,
gb erpbtavmr uvz nf n zrzore bs gur snzvyl! Naq, bapr onpx va gur ubgry,
fur unq unq n ivbyrag fprar jvgu ure uhfonaq: ur nohfvat gung enooyr bs
n snzvyl bs uref, fur, qrsraqvat ure snzvyl, ntnvafg ure bja pbaivpgvba,
hagvy Nqqvr jbxr, tbg bhg bs orq naq orttrq gurz gb or dhvrg, be ur
jbhyqa'g or noyr gb fyrrc.... Gur qneyvat, ubj cerggvyl ur unq fnvq vg,
va gung qrne yvggyr qrpvqrq jnl bs uvf, yvxr n erthyne yvggyr zna: bu,
jurer jbhyq gurl or jvgubhg uvz! Fur fbzrgvzrf gubhtug, vs ur qvrq, vs
gurl rire unq gb ybfr uvz, fur jbhyq qb njnl jvgu urefrys! Ur jnf abg
gurve puvyq: ur jnf gurve gernfher, gurve yvsr. Naq fur tnir n tynapr ng
uvz; ohg, jura fur fnj uvz fvggvat unaq va unaq jvgu uvf sngure, juvyr
Ina qre Jrypxr gevrq gb znxr bhg gur qvfgnag ivyyntr-fgrrcyrf nsgre nyy
gubfr lrnef, fur ghearq ebhaq ntnva, dhvpxyl, jvgu n wrnybhf cnat ng ure
urneg.... Bu, fur sryg fbeel sbe Nqbycuvar! Fur fnj va Nqbycuvar n
fgehttyr gb or "va gur fjvz," n qrfcrengr fgehttyr, orpnhfr Ina Fnrgmrzn
unq abguvat ohg n svar-fbhaqvat anzr: va rirelguvat ryfr, ur jnf na
vafvtavsvpnag crefba, jub unq terng qvssvphygl va bognvavat uvf
cebzbgvba, nsgre ybat lrnef bs jnvgvat; zneevrq gb Nqbycuvar, ab bar
xabjvat jul fur unq gnxra uvz be ur ure; svefg gelvat gb frg hc nf na
nqibpngr naq nggbearl ng gur Unthr; yngre, erprvivat n ovyyrg va gur
Zvavfgel bs Whfgvpr, ohg arire yvxrq ol Cncn naq arire urycrq ba ol uvz,
nf Ina Antury unq orra; arire gubhtug zhpu bs ol uvf fhcrevbef; abj
chfurq vagb nyy fbegf bs yvggyr wbof naq pbzzvggrrf ol Nqbycuvar; gelvat
gb obgpu hc fbzr xvaq bs cbyvgvpny perrq, va beqre gb fgnaq nf n
pnaqvqngr sbe gur Zhavpvcny Pbhapvy, orpnhfr Nqbycuvar, nyjnlf wrnybhf
naq raivbhf bs Oregun'f vzcbegnapr, jnagrq gb frr ure bja uhfonaq pbzvat
zber naq zber gb gur sebag naq unq fb yvggyr punapr bs ernyvmvat gung
vqrny.... Lrf, Nqbycuvar zhfg or vajneqyl shevbhf jura fur gubhtug bs
Oregun'f ubhfrubyq: ure uhfonaq pbybavny frpergnel, nsgre znxvat zbarl
ng gur one ng Frznenat; gurve ubhfr n ercyvpn bs gur qvtavsvrq, fgngryl
cngreany ubzr bs gur byq qnlf: gur fnzr ovt qvaaref, gur fnzr tbbq
fbpvrgl, whfg iretvat ba gur qvcybzngvp frg. Naq fb Nqbycuvar tnir gubfr
vzcbffvoyr "yvggyr riravatf:" nyy fbegf bs crefbaf qenttrq va nalubj;
qvirefvsvrq ryrzragf gung xarj abguvat bs bar nabgure, arire fnj bar
nabgure, jrer nfgbavfurq gb zrrg bar nabgure va gubfr penzcrq
qenjvat-ebbzf, shyy bs snqrq fcrpvzraf bs nzngrhe arrqyr-jbex naq qhfgl
Znxneg obhdhrgf; n ehoore, n wvatyvat qhrg ol gur tveyf, arkg gur gnoyrf
chfurq nfvqr naq fhqqrayl, ol jnl bs n qnapr, n znq ebzc, juvpu frag n
pybhq bs qhfg sylvat sebz gur pnecrg: rirelguvat, rirelguvat va gur fnzr
rkrpenoyr gnfgr, havaivgvat naq, rfcrpvnyyl, pbzzba, jvgu gur guvpx
fnaqjvpurf naq gur fyhggvfu znvq-freinag, jub fuehttrq ure fubhyqref
vzcregvaragyl vs gur tveyf nfxrq ure gb qb n guvat! Bu, Pbafgnapr sryg
fbeel sbe Nqbycuvar, jub jnf, nsgre nyy, ure fvfgre; naq fur orpnzr
njner, nsgre lrnef, nf gubhtu vg unq orra fyhzorevat, bs n jnez
snzvyl-nssrpgvba sbe nyy ure oebguref naq fvfgref naq gurve puvyqera.
Qvq fur vaurevg vg sebz ure zbgure? N jnez snzvyl-nssrpgvba. Fur jbhyq
unir ybirq gb unir n sevraqyl gnyx jvgu Nqbycuvar, gb nqivfr ure gb
frcnengr gur qvssrerag ryrzragf n yvggyr ng gubfr riravatf bs uref, gb
znxr ure vaivgngvbaf yrff urgrebtrarbhf naq gb gryy Sybbegwr abg gb jrne
n fbvyrq onyy-qerff ba na bppnfvba yvxr gung! Naq gura gubfr guerr oblf,
jvgu gurve qvegl unaqf, ehfuvat nobhg gur penzzrq qenjvat-ebbzf jvgubhg
nal vqrn bs znaaref, fb onqyl oebhtug hc pbzcnerq jvgu ure Nqqvr, jub
creuncf unq abg orra oebhtug hc ng nyy, ohg jub jnf fhpu n avpr yvggyr
sryybj bs uvzfrys, fb cbyvgr, fgvss gubhtu ur zvtug or, naq jub gnyxrq
cebcreyl naq abg jvgu n fcyhggre bs ybj Unthr fynat! Bu, vg jnf
qernqshy! Naq fur jnf fb nsenvq gung Nqqvr zvtug pngpu fbzr bs vg....
Cbbe Nqbycuvar, jung n fgehttyr, rfcrpvnyyl jvgu nyy Oregun'f
hanggnvanoyr cresrpgvba orsber ure rlrf! Sbe gurl nyy fhssrerq sebz
wrnybhfl va gurve snzvyl: fur unq vg urefrys; naq Nqbycuvar unq nyjnlf
unq vg irel fgebatyl-qrirybcrq sebz n puvyq: wrnybhf bs ure ryqre
fvfgref naq oebguref.... Jbhyq fur rire or noyr gb tvir Nqbycuvar n jbeq
bs nqivpr? Abj gung Sybbegwr'f jrqqvat jnf arne ng unaq, pbhyqa'g fur or
bs hfr gb Nqbycuvar? Fur gubhtug vg fhpu n cvgl gung ure fvfgre--n Ina
Ybjr, nsgre nyy--jnf orpbzvat fb pbzzba; naq, nsgre ynfg avtug, fur jnf
fb nsenvq bs gung jrqqvat; naq vg jbhyq or nyy gur jbefr orpnhfr
Oregun'f Rzvyvr jnf gb or zneevrq nobhg gur fnzr gvzr, va Znl, n pbhcyr
bs zbaguf urapr. Va nal pnfr, fur jbhyq gnyx gb Znzzn nobhg vg, abg sbe
gur fnxr bs vagresrevat, ohg orpnhfr Nqbycuvar jnf ure fvfgre, orpnhfr
fur pnerq sbe ure nf n fvfgre naq orpnhfr fur unq n srryvat bs cvgl sbe
ure, trahvar, urneg-eraqvat cvgl....

"Znzzn, jung ner lbh ybbxvat ng?"

Vg jnf Nqqvr'f ibvpr; naq fur fnj gung gur obl unq pbzr gb fvg ol ure,
orpnhfr vg jnf ure ghea abj. Ur nyjnlf qvivqrq uvf snibhef yvxr gung
orgjrra uvf sngure naq zbgure. Sbe Ina qre Jrypxr ng bapr gbbx hc gur
_Avrhjr Ebggreqnzzre_ naq ohevrq uvzfrys va vgf jvqr cntrf, va uvf
pbeare.

"Bu, fb lbh'ir pbzr gb fvg ol zr ng ynfg!" fur juvfcrerq.

"Zhzzl, qba'g or fb wrnybhf: qb lbh jnag zr gb pubc zlfrys va gjb?"

Ur gnyxrq gb ure, nzhfrq ure. Fur nyjnlf nqzverq gur jnl va juvpu ur
gnyxrq, cerggvyl, frafvoyl naq qviregvatyl, jvgu n fbeg bs gnyrag sbe
fznyy-gnyx. Irel yvxryl ur unq npdhverq vg orpnhfr, jvgubhg uvz, uvf
sngure naq zbgure jbhyq unir orra fvyrag, jura gurl jrer abg
dhneeryyvat. Ur gnyxrq bs n pbhcyr bs ubhfrf juvpu gurl unq frra
lrfgreqnl; ur gnyxrq bs gur ynaqfpncr, fnvq vg znqr uvz srry n Qhgpu obl
ng bapr--jnfa'g vg shaal?--naq xrcg uvf zbgure nzhfrq yvxr n tnyynag
yvggyr pninyvre. Naq lrg ur unq abguvat bs n qnaql nobhg uvz: n oebnq,
fubeg, svezyl-ohvyg yvggyr zna, va n pbybherq fuveg, n oyhr terng-pbng
naq xavpxreobpxref. Ur jber n fbsg sryg ung, funcrq yvxr n Obre ung. Fur
qvqa'g yvxr gung ung, ohg ur vafvfgrq ba univat bar. Ohg, rira jvgu gung
ung, ubj unaqfbzr ur jnf! Bu, jung n tbbq-ybbxvat obl ur jnf! Uvf senax,
oyhr rlrf, n yvggyr uneq naq tenir; uvf serfu-pbybherq, svez purrxf,
jvgu gubfr ersvarq, pyrne-phg srngherf, Uraev'f srngherf; uvf fznyy
zbhgu, juvpu fur ybirq; uvf fdhner fubhyqref; uvf cerggl,
xavpxreobpxrerq yrtf, jvgu gur fdhner xarrf naq gur fyraqre, ebhaqrq
pnyirf. Ure puvyq, ure puvyq: ur jnf ure nyy va nyy! Ur jnf gur
unccvarff, gur tenpr bs ure yvsr; orpnhfr bs uvz ure yvsr jnf jbegu gur
yvivat!

Ur gnyxrq, ohg fur fnj n tenir ybbx va uvf rlrf, n ybbx tenire guna
hfhny. Lrf, fur sryg vg: vg jnf orpnhfr bs jung jnf njnvgvat gurz, va na
ubhe'f gvzr; gur erprcgvba ol gur tenaqcneragf qbja gurer, ng
Qevroretra.... Ina qre Jrypxr nyfb jnf areibhf, qvq abg fcrnx n jbeq,
sbyqrq uvf arjfcncre, guvf fvqr naq gung.... Pbafgnapr' urneg orng va
ure guebng, juvpu jnf qel naq cnepurq jvgu areibhfarff. Naq Nqqvr'f ybbx
orpnzr zber svkrq, zber frevbhf guna rire. Lrf, fur sryg vg. Gurer jnf n
graqrearff va gur puvyq'f ibvpr, nf gubhtu ur jnagrq gb fnl:

"Zvaq lbh orne hc, Zhzzl, cerfragyl...."

Naq, gur arnere gurl nccebnpurq, gur dhvrgre gurl orpnzr: Uraev va uvf
arjfcncre; fur fgnevat guebhtu gur jvaqbj; juvyr Nqqvr uvzfrys sbhaq
abguvat zber gb fnl naq fng dhvgr fgvyy, jvgu uvf unaqf va gur cbpxrgf
bs uvf yvggyr terng-pbng. Ab, fur pbhyq arire sbetrg gung gubfr gjb byq
crbcyr unq gnxra guvegrra lrnef, abg gb npprcg ure nf gurve qnhtugre,
ohg gb ybbx hcba ure puvyq nf gurve tenaqpuvyq. Qhevat nyy gung gvzr,
abg n yrggre, abg na nggrzcg ng erpbapvyvngvba: n pbzcyrgr fvyrapr, na
nofbyhgr qrngu gbjneqf gurve bayl fba, gbjneqf gurve bayl tenaqfba. Fur
jnf abg guvaxvat bs urefrys; fur nfxrq sbe ab nssrpgvba sebz gurz, bayl
sbe pbyq pvivyvgl. Fur sryg fb zhpu erfragzrag, fb zhpu erfragzrag gung,
jura fur gubhtug bs vg, fur nyzbfg pubxrq. Naq, bire naq nobir, pnzr gur
pehfuvat pbafpvbhfarff gung fur unq gb or tengrshy orpnhfr gubfr cneragf
unq fnpevsvprq gurve fba gb ure, nf gurl unq bapr fnvq; orpnhfr gurl unq
vafvfgrq gung Uraev fubhyq zneel ure, rira gubhtu vg funggrerq uvf
pnerre. Naq gung, gung jnf jung fur pbhyq arire sbetvir, orpnhfr vg unq
nyjnlf jbhaqrq, orpnhfr vg fgvyy jbhaqrq ure inavgl.

Fur jbhyq unir orra tengrshy, sbe ure fba'f fnxr, vs gurl unq qrpvqrq
gung Uraev, nsgre n ergverzrag bs fbzr lrnef, erylvat ba uvf vasyhragvny
pbaarpgvbaf, fubhyq erfhzr uvf pnerre, jvgu ure ol uvf fvqr. Qr
Fgnssrynre unq yrsg gur qvcybzngvp freivpr, jnf yvivat ng uvf
pbhagel-cynpr arne Unneyrz; naq gurl pbhyq arire unir zrg uvz noebnq
rkprcg ol fbzr rkgenbeqvanel pbvapvqrapr.... Ab, gung fur arire jbhyq
naq arire pbhyq sbetvir gurz, orpnhfr bs ure jbhaqrq inavgl; vg jnf gung
juvpu pnhfrq gur ovggrearff gung nyzbfg pubxrq ure: gur "fnpevsvpr,"
Uraev'f pnerre funggrerq guebhtu ure. Unq fur abg sbe svir lrnef orra
gur jvsr bs gur Argureynaqf zvavfgre ng Ebzr? Unq fur abg svyyrq ure
cbfvgvba jvgu gnpg, jvgu tenpr, rira jvgu pbafhzzngr xabjyrqtr bs gur
jbeyq, hagvy gur Qhgpu pbybal cenvfrq ure _fnybaf_ nobir gubfr bs gur
bgure Argureynaqf yrtngvbaf noebnq? Unq fur abg gnxra cevqr va gung
erchgngvba, gnxra cyrnfher va gur snpg gung gur Qhgpu pbybal naq Qhgpu
geniryyref sbhaq fbzrguvat va ure qvaaref naq erprcgvbaf gung erzvaqrq
gurz bs Ubyynaq naq ubzr? Ubj bsgra unq fur abg orra gbyq, "Zriebhj,
jvgu lbh, va Ebzr, rirelguvat vf zbfg punezvat, rfcrpvnyyl jura pbzcnerq
jvgu guvf cynpr naq gung;" ure pbhagelzra hfrq bsgra gb pbzcynva gb ure
bs gur qhyarff naq fgvssarff naq rkpyhfvirarff bs fb znal bs gurve
yrtngvbaf. Jbhyq fur abg unir orra va ure evtug cynpr ol Ina qre
Jrypxr'f fvqr, rira gubhtu crbcyr zvtug gnyx naq pnivy ng svefg,
orpnhfr, fur, gur qvibeprq jvsr bs n zvavfgre cyravcbgragvnel, unq
nsgrejneqf zneevrq gur lbhatrfg frpergnel va gur freivpr! Ohg fur jbhyq
unir fubja gnpg, vg jbhyq unir orra sbetbggra, vg jbhyq unir fhofvqrq
vagb gur cnfg. Fur ershfrq gb oryvrir ohg gung nyy guvf jbhyq unir orra
cbffvoyr, abg sbe nal bar ryfr, creuncf, ohg pregnvayl sbe ure. Naq guvf
jnf ure tevrinapr, gung gubfr gjb byq crbcyr--naq Uraev jvgu gurz--unq
arire orra noyr gb frr guvf nf fur qvq; gung gurl unq tvira ure gurve
fba, jvgu na nyybjnapr gung zrnag cbiregl--gjb nyzf sbe juvpu fur jnf
rkcrpgrq gb or tengrshy!--ohg unq yrsg ure naq uvz naq gurve puvyq va
Oehffryf, va n pbeare, yvxr fbzr haanznoyr qvftenpr! Ab, gung jnf n
guvat juvpu fur pbhyq arire sbetvir, arire, arire, arire!

Fur jnf fb qrrc va ure gubhtugf gung fur qvq abg abgvpr gung gur genva
unq fgbccrq naq gung gurl unq neevirq ng Mrvfg-Qevroretra.

"Znzzn!" fnvq Nqqvr, fbsgyl.

Fur fgnegrq, ghearq cnyr. Ohg fur jnf erfbyirq gb pbageby urefrys, gb or
qvtavsvrq, gb fubj gubfr byq crbcyr gung fur jnf abg n jbeguyrff jbzna,
rira gubhtu fur unq pbzzvggrq n zvfgnxr, n snyfr fgrc va ure yvsr: irel
jryy, n fva, vs gurl cyrnfrq, orpnhfr fur unq ybirq. Nqqvr urycrq ure gb
nyvtug; naq ure tybirq svatref gerzoyrq va uvf svez yvggyr unaq. Ohg fur
jnf erfbyirq abg gb tvir jnl: fur zhfg xrrc dhvgr pnyz; lrf, fur jbhyq
or pnyz naq qvtavsvrq nobir nyy....

"Gurer'f gur pneevntr," fnvq Uraev, va n fgvsyrq ibvpr.

Ur erpbtavmrq gur irel byq pneevntr bs lrnef ntb. Ur rira erpbtavmrq gur
byq pbnpuzna, jub ybbxrq ng uvz naq gbhpurq uvf ung. Gur sbbgzna jub
bcrarq gur pneevntr-qbbe jnf n lbhgu, jubz ur qvq abg xabj. Naq gur
pbnpuzna, nf na byq freinag, orag bire gb uvz naq, va n dhnirevat ibvpr,
hfvat gur byq gvgyr, fnvq:

"Zbeavat, wbaxre. Tbbq-zbeavat, zriebhj."

"Ubj ner lbh, Qvex?" fnvq Uraev, va n qhyy ibvpr.

Gurl frggyrq gurzfryirf va gur pneevntr. Naq Pbafgnapr fnj gung Uraev
jnf frggvat uvf yvcf, tevggvat uvf grrgu naq pyrapuvat uvf wnjf, nf
gubhtu jvgu n ivbyrag rssbeg gb fgbc uvzfrys sebz pelvat yvxr n puvyq.
Abj naq gura ur fuvirerq, areibhfyl, naq fgnerq bhg bs gur jvaqbj. Ur
erpbtavmrq gur ivyynf ba rvgure fvqr bs gur ebnq, ybbxvat fb zrynapubyl
va gur zvqqyr bs gur oyrnx Znepu tneqraf gung fgergpurq unmvyl va gur
qnzc zvfg; ur abgvprq ubj zhpu unq orra chyyrq qbja gb znxr jnl sbe arj
ubhfrf. Ubj punatrq vg jnf! Jung n ybg unq orra ohvyg yngryl! Ohg lrg
gurer jnf fbzrguvat haqre gubfr terng pybhql fxvrf, urnil jvgu rgreany
enva, va gung ebnq, va gur tneqraf bs gubfr ivyynf: fbzrguvat bs gur byq
qnlf, fbzrguvat bs uvf puvyqubbq, fbzrguvat bs gur gvzr jura ur jnf
lbhat. Ur sryg yvxr na byq zna pbzvat ubzr ntnva: ur, fpnepryl
rvtug-naq-guvegl! Vg jnf nf gubhtu ur jrer nfunzrq va gur cerfrapr bs
gur snzvyvne! Naq, irel frpergyl, gbb jrnx gb npphfr uvzfrys, ur npphfrq
ure, gur jbzna fvggvat orfvqr uvz, gur jbzna sbhe lrnef byqre guna
uvzfrys. Ur gbb jnf guvaxvat bs Ebzr abj, bs gur ebbzf bs gur
Argureynaqf Yrtngvba, bs ure, gura Zef. qr Fgnssrynre, gur jvsr bs uvf
puvrs, bs gurve ybir-nssnve, svefg va wrfg, gura va rnearfg, hagvy gung
greevoyr zbzrag va gur ebbz jurer gurl hfrq gb zrrg; Qr Fgnssrynre va
gur qbbejnl; Pbafgnapr syrrvat guebhtu nabgure qbbe; naq uvf vagreivrj
jvgu gur vawherq byq zna, jub unq orra tbbq gb uvz, va n sngureyl
snfuvba! Naq ur oynzrq ure sbe vg: vg jnf ure snhyg! Ur jnf n lbhat zna
gura, jvgu uneqyl nal xabjyrqtr bs gur jbeyq; fur, n jbzna bs
gjragl-rvtug, zneevrq sbe bire svir lrnef, unq ragvprq uvz, unq orra gur
grzcgerff! Vg jnf fur, vg jnf fur: ur oynzrq ure sbe vg! Ur unq abg
ybirq ure ng svefg, qhevat gur svefg fgntrf bs gur syvegngvba. Gurer unq
orra n pung, n jnygm, n wrfg. Lrf, gura vg unq ghearq gb cnffvba; ohg
jung jnf cnffvba? Gur synzr bs n zbzrag, synevat hc naq gura
rkgvathvfurq. Naq ur xarj vg: sebz gung qnl, jura ur fgbbq nf n phycevg
va gur cerfrapr bs gung qvtavsvrq byq zna, sebz gung qnl gur synzr jnf
rkgvathvfurq. Naq sebz gung qnl ur ortna gb frr gur yvsr gung ynl orsber
uvz: gur fpnaqny, juvpu svyyrq nyy Ebzr; gur qrfcnve bs uvf cvbhf
cneragf, sne njnl ng ubzr, va Ubyynaq; Pbafgnapr va Syberapr: gurve
svefg vagreivrj gurer, uvzfrys lvryqvat gb uvf cneragf' jvfurf naq
nfxvat ure gb or uvf jvsr, gb zneel uvz va Ratynaq nf fbba nf gur
qvibepr jnf tenagrq. Fvapr gura, ur unq nyjnlf frra uvf sngr unatvat
orsber uvz; naq vg unq pehfurq uvz, fb jrnx, fb fznyy.... Nzvq gur
jergpurqarff, nzvq gur ehva bs uvf lbhat yvsr, orfvqr gung jbzna va jubz
ur, jub qvq abg gnxr oynzr gb uvzfrys, arire ybfg fvtug bs gur
jbeyqyl-jvfr grzcgerff sbhe lrnef byqre guna ur, orfvqr gung jbzna, gur
rgreany bofgnpyr, naq nzvq gung jergpurqarff, gur bayl tenpr unq orra
gur puvyq. Gung juvpu zvtug unir vapernfrq gur zvfrel unq orra gur
zrepl, sebz gur svefg zbzrag gung ur frg rlrf ba vg, yvggyr, erq zbefry
gung vg jnf: gur qneyvat puvyq; gur puvyq gung jnf uvf, gubhtu gur sehvg
bs gurve zvfrel; gur puvyq gung, nf vg terj byqre, orpnzr uvf pbzsbeg;
gur puvyq gung sryg jvgu vgf yvggyr unaqf bire uvf snpr naq va uvf unve;
gur puvyq gung fnvq "Qnqql;" gur puvyq gung ur fzbgurerq va uvf nezf!
Gur puvyq, ure puvyq, vg jnf gehr, ohg uvf puvyq nyfb: uvf puvyq, uvf
fba, tebjvat hc naq fbba orpbzvat gur yvggyr zbqrengbe orgjrra gurz naq
gur ernfba, nyfb, jul gurl erznvarq gbtrgure; gur puvyq, tebjvat hc gb
oblubbq naq, jvgubhg haqrefgnaqvat be xabjvat, fgvyy srryvat gur rgreany
fgehttyr, gur rgreany zvfrel, hagvy vgf rlrf orpnzr zber tenir naq vg
sryg gung vg jnf gur zbqrengbe naq gur pbzsbegre. Gur puvyq, gurer vg
fng, bccbfvgr uvz: uvf unaqfbzr, fgheql obl, jub ybbxrq yvxr uvz, jvgu
gur svkrq, rnearfg, tragyr rlrf; naq ur jnf abj tbvat gb fubj uvz gb uvf
cneragf: ure puvyq, vg jnf gehr, gur sehvg bs gurve zvfrel, ohg uvf
puvyq naq gurve tenaqfba.

Gur obl tynaprq sebz uvf sngure gb uvf zbgure. Gurl obgu fng bccbfvgr
uvz naq obgu fvyragyl ybbxrq bhg bs gur jvaqbj, unys-gheavat gurve onpxf
hcba rnpu bgure. Gur obl jbhyq fb tynqyl unir gnxra gurve unaqf, gur
unaqf bs obgu bs gurz, naq fnvq fbzrguvat: n jbeq gb havgr gurz ng guvf
zbzrag, juvpu ur sryg gb or irel frevbhf; ohg ur qvq abg xabj gur jbeq,
pyrireyl gubhtu ur xarj ubj gb gnyx nf n ehyr. Ur tynaprq sebz uvf
sngure gb uvf zbgure, sebz uvf zbgure gb uvf sngure; naq gurl, gurl qvq
abg ybbx, qnerq abg ybbx ng uvz, srryvat uvf tynapr naq svyyrq gb
biresybjvat jvgu gurve bja gubhtugf. Gura gur obl sryg yvsr fvaxvat irel
urnivyl, yvxr n jrvtug, hcba uvf fznyy oernfg. Ur qerj n irel qrrc
oerngu, haqre gur urnil jrvtug, naq uvf oerngu jnf n qrrc fvtu.

Gurl obgu abj ybbxrq hc, ybbxrq ng gurve puvyq. Uraev jbhyq unir yvxrq
gb guebj bhg uvf nezf, gb srry uvf puvyq ng uvf urneg; ohg gur pneevntr
abj ghearq guebhtu n tngr naq qebir nybat n sebag tneqra bs ebhaqrq
ynjaf, va juvpu gur ebfr-ohfurf, fjngurq va fgenj, fgbbq jnvgvat sbe gur
fcevat.




PUNCGRE KV


Gurl fgrccrq sebz gur pneevntr; gur unyy-qbbe bcrarq. Gur phegnvaf bs
gur sebag ebbz fubbx fyvtugyl, nf gubhtu jvgu gur gerzoyvat gbhpu bs na
byq unaq; ohg gurer jnf ab bar va gur unyy gb erprvir gurz rkprcg gur
ohgyre jub unq bcrarq gur qbbe.

Gura Pbafgnapr fnvq:

"Uraev, lbh tb va svefg. V'yy pbzr cerfragyl, jvgu Nqqvr, jura lbh pnyy
zr...."

Ur ybbxrq ng ure, urfvgngvat gb fnl gung ur uvzfrys jvfurq gb tb va jvgu
Nqqvr. Ohg fur unq ynvq ure unaq ba gur obl'f fubhyqre naq ybbxrq ng Ina
qre Jrypxr fb fgrnqvyl gung ur haqrefgbbq gung fur jbhyq abg pbafrag.
Naq ur jrag va, fgnttrevat yvxr n qehaxra zna, jrag vagb gur ebbz jurer
gur jvaqbj-phegnvaf unq gerzoyrq.

Gur ohgyre ergverq, abg xabjvat jung gb qb. Naq Pbafgnapr fng qbja ba
gur bnx frggyr naq qerj Nqqvr orfvqr ure. Fb fur jnf zrrxyl jnvgvat va
gur unyy, jnvgvat gur cyrnfher bs ure sngure- naq zbgure-va-ynj; ohg vg
jnf bs ure bja jvyy gung fur jnvgrq abj, nsgre jnvgvat arneyl sbhegrra
lrnef sbe n jbeq gung jbhyq unir pnyyrq ure gb gurz. Jvgu n jbzna'f
qryvpnpl, fur unq yrg Uraev tb va svefg gb uvf cneragf; ohg fur unq frg
ure zvaq hcba gnxvat ure obl gb uvf tenaq-cneragf urefrys. Vg jnf sbe
ure gb qb gung; fur vafvfgrq ba ure cevivyrtr, ure evtug.... Uraev'f
urfvgngvba unq abg rfpncrq ure; ohg fur unq ynvq ure unaq hcba ure fba'f
fubhyqre, nf gubhtu gnxvat cbffrffvba bs uvz.

Fur qvq abg xabj ubj ybat fur jnvgrq, ohg vg frrzrq irel ybat; naq fur
unq gvzr gb frr rirel qrgnvy bs gur unyy: gur bnx jnvafpbgvat; gur guerr
be sbhe snzvyl-cbegenvgf; n pbhcyr bs byq ratenivatf bs pvgl-ivrjf; gur
Qrysg whtf ba na nagvdhr pnovarg; gur fgnvepnfr yrnqvat gb gur sybbe
nobir; gur bnx qbbef bs gur ebbzf, juvpu erznvarq fvyrag naq pybfrq. Fur
fnj gur cnggrea bs gur gvyrf va gur cnffntr naq gur pbybhef bs gur jvqr
fgevc bs Qriragre pnecrg.... Gura, ng ynfg, gur qbbe bs gur sebag ebbz
bcrarq naq na byq zna nccrnerq. Pbafgnapr ebfr. Gur byq zna unq Uraev'f
srngherf, ohg zber qrrcyl sheebjrq, naq uvf pyrna-funira hccre yvc sryy
va; uvf fgenvtug abfr jnf zber cebzvarag naq uvf vibel sberurnq nepurq
uvtu nobir n fpnagl sevatr bs veba-terl unve. Uvf rlrf ybbxrq bhg oyhr
naq uneq, nf Uraev'f rlrf ybbxrq bhg. Ur jnf gnyy, Uraev jnf fubeg; uvf
fubhyqref jrer oebnq naq orag va gur ybat, qnex pbng, Uraev jnf fdhner
naq fgenvtug. Uvf unaqf jrer ybat, jevaxyrq naq obal naq gurl gerzoyrq;
naq Uraev'f unaqf jrer fubeg naq oebnq.... Fur znqr ure pbzcnevfba va
gjb be guerr frpbaqf, fgnaqvat jvgu ure unaq ba ure fba'f fubhyqre. Gura
gur byq zna fnvq:

"Pbzr va, Pbafgnapr...."

Fur jrag, tragyl chfuvat Nqqvr orsber ure, naq gurl ragrerq gur ebbz.
Fur fnj na byq jbzna, jvgu n ynetr snpr gung va ab jnl erzvaqrq ure bs
Uraev. Gur terl unve, cnegrq va gur zvqqyr, jnf frg frireryl va n
fvyire-fgvss senzr; ure pbzcyrkvba jnf lryybj naq jnkra; ure qnex-terl
rlrf jrer shyy bs grnef, naq crrerq cnvashyyl guebhtu gung zvfgl unmr.
Ure svther jnf orag va gur qnex fghss qerff; ure yrtf frrzrq gb zbir
jvgu qvssvphygl; naq ure fgbbcvat obql jnf nyzbfg qrsbezrq. Fur jnf
ubyqvat Uraev'f unaq....

"Pbafgnapr," gur byq jbzna ortna; naq ure gerzoyvat unaqf jrer envfrq nf
gubhtu sbe na rzoenpr.

"Urer vf lbhe tenaqfba," fnvq Pbafgnapr, fgvssyl.

Fur chfurq Nqqvr n yvggyr arnere. Gur obl ybbxrq bhg bs uvf fgrnql rlrf,
juvpu jrer gur rlrf bs Uraev naq bs gur byq zna, naq fnvq:

"Ubj qb lbh qb, Tenaqcncn naq Tenaqznzzn?"

Va gur ynetr, fbzoer ebbz, uvf ibvpr fbhaqrq qhyy naq lrg svez. Gur byq
jbzna naq gur byq zna ybbxrq ng gur obl; naq gurer jnf na bccerffvir
fvyrapr. Gurl ybbxrq ng gur obl, naq gurl jrer fb fgehpx jvgu nznmrzrag
gung gurl pbhyq abg svaq n jbeq gb fnl. Gur byq jbzna unq gnxra Uraev'f
unaq ntnva; naq gur grnef sybjrq sebz ure rlrf. Uraev'f wnjf tengrq naq
ur fuhqqrerq, areibhfyl:

"Gung'f zl obl," ur fnvq.

"Fb gung vf Nqevnna," fnvq gur byq jbzna, gerzoyvat, naq ure rzoenpr,
juvpu unq abg ernpurq Pbafgnapr, abj pybfrq hcba gur puvyq. Ur xvffrq
ure va uvf ghea; naq gura gur byq zna nyfb rzoenprq uvz naq gur puvyq
xvffrq uvz onpx.

"Uraqevx," fnvq gur byq jbzna. "Uraqevx, ubj yvxr ... ubj yvxr Uraev,
jura ur jnf gung ntr!"

Gur byq zna abqqrq tragyl. Gur cnfg jnf pbzvat onpx gb gur byq crbcyr;
naq vg jnf nf vs gurl fnj gurve bja fba jura ur jnf guvegrra. Gurl jrer
fb zhpu fhecevfrq ng guvf gung gurl pbhyq bayl fgner ng gur obl, nf
gubhtu gurl qvq abg oryvrir gurve rlrf, nf gubhtu vg jrer fbzr fgenatr
qernz.

Pbafgnapr fgbbq fgvssyl naq fnvq abguvat. Ohg gur byq jbzna abj fnvq:

"Vg vf n terng cyrnfher gb hf gb frr lbh urer, Pbafgnapr."

Pbafgnapr gevrq gb fzvyr:

"Lbh ner irel xvaq," fur fnvq, cyrnfnagyl.

"Ohg qb fvg qbja," fnvq gur byq jbzna, gerzoyvat, naq fur cbvagrq gb gur
punvef.

Gurl nyy fng qbja; naq Uraev znqr na rssbeg gb gnyx anghenyyl, nobhg
Qevroretra. Gur cnfg gung ynl orgjrra gurz jnf fb uvtu-urncrq gung vg
frrzrq nf gubhtu gurl jrer arire gb nccebnpu bar nabgure npebff guvf
bofgnpyr. Fb znal jbeqf gung fubhyq unir orra fcbxra unq erznvarq
hafcbxra, sbe gur fnxr bs na unezbavbhf fvyrapr, gung fvyrapr vgfrys
orpnzr n gbegher; naq fb znal lrnef jrer cvyrq orgjrra gur cneragf naq
gur puvyqera gung vg frrzrq vzcbffvoyr sbe gurz abj gb ernpu bar nabgure
jvgu jbeqf. Gur jbeqf sryy fgenatryl va gur fbzoer ebbz, juvpu ybbxrq
bhg hcba gur Znepu tneqra naq hcba gur ebnq cnyvat njnl va gur inthr
zvfgf; gur jbeqf sryy yvxr guvatf, fgenatryl, yvxr uneq, ebhaq guvatf,
zngrevny guvatf, naq fgehpx ntnvafg bar nabgure yvxr zneoyrf pynfuvat
gbtrgure....

Vg jnf gur cnvashy gnyxvat ba vaqvssrerag gbcvpf gung jnf nyzbfg
vzcbffvoyr. Sbe gur jbeqf pbafgnagyl fgehpx ntnvafg guvatf bs gur cnfg,
guvatf cnvashy gb gur gbhpu; naq gurer jrer ab vaqvssrerag gbcvpf. Jura
Uraev fnvq gung Qevroretra jnf irel zhpu punatrq, ur jnf ersreevat gb
uvf znal lrnef bs nofrapr. Jura Pbafgnapr znqr n erznex nobhg Oehffryf,
fur jnf ersreevat gb ure ybat erfvqrapr gurer, qhevat juvpu ure
uhfonaq'f cneragf unq ershfrq gb frr ure naq ybbxrq hcba ure nf n
qvftenpr. Jura gurl fcbxr bs Nqqvr'f yvsr nf n fznyy puvyq, vg jnf nf
gubhtu gurl gjb, gur sngure naq gur zbgure, jrer ercebnpuvat gur
tenaqcneragf. Gurer jrer ab vaqvssrerag gbcvpf; naq n qrfcnvevat tybbz
uhat orgjrra gur byq crbcyr naq gur puvyq, orpnhfr gurl pbhyq abg ernpu
gur puvyq npebff gurve fba naq gurve qnhtugre-va-ynj.... Bhgfvqr, gur
jvaq ebfr, ubjyvat; gur urnil terl pybhqf qrfpraqrq hcba gurz yvxr n
qnzc zvfg; naq gur enva pynggrerq qbja. Uraev unq gubhtug bs nfxvat uvf
sngure gb gnxr uvz vagb gur tneqra, gb frr vs ur fgvyy erpbtavmrq vg,
ohg gur crygvat enva ceriragrq uvz; naq ur fnj abguvat ohg uvf zbgure'f
grnef. Va uvf urneg, ur ynvq gurfr gb uvf jvsr'f punetr. Gur cnfg jnf
cvyrq hc nf n jnyy orgjrra rnpu fbhy naq vgf arvtuobhe.

Gur obl sryg vg. Ur sryg uvf oernguvat bccerffrq jvgu nyy gung tybbz;
naq ntnva naq ntnva ur jnagrq gb fvtu, ohg ur xrcg onpx uvf fvtuf. Ur
qvq abg xabj jung gb fnl; naq ur tnir uvf tenaqcneragf gur vzcerffvba bs
n dhvrg, fhoqhrq puvyq, jub jnf abg unccl. Gurl fcbxr gb uvz gbb nf byq
crbcyr qb gb n puvyq, jvgu pbaqrfpraqvat xvaqarff, cbvagvat bhg gur
yvggyr guvatf va gur ebbz. Gur obl, jub jnf npphfgbzrq gb or n zna
fgnaqvat orgjrra uvf gjb cneragf, nafjrerq abguvat rkprcg va ful
zbabflyynoyrf.

Uraev naq Pbafgnapr nibvqrq ybbxvat ng rnpu bgure; naq rnpu bs gurz,
rira va gur fnzr pbairefngvba, gnyxrq nf vg jrer frcnengryl gb gur byq
crbcyr. Gurl jrer gb fgnl gb yhapu--gur byq-snfuvbarq Qhgpu
"pbssrr-qevaxvat"--naq erghea ng svir b'pybpx gb gur Unthr. Gur ohgyre
pnzr gb fnl gung yhapurba jnf freirq naq chfurq onpx gur fyvqvat qbbef.
Gur qvavat-ebbz ynl ba guvf fvqr bs gur terng, pybfrq pbafreingbel, n
tybbzl funqbj va gur cnyr qnlyvtug gung fgernxrq va guebhtu gur enva;
naq gur znubtnal sheavgher tyrnzrq jvgu ersyrpgrq yvtugf, gur gnoyr
fubar juvgr naq tynffl. Gurl fng qbja: qvssvphyg jbeqf sryy abj naq
ntnva naq fbhaqrq uneq va gur fbzrjung puvyyl ebbz. Gur byq jbzna jvgu
zhpu prerzbal bssrerq n fbsg-obvyrq rtt, be n gbathr-fnaqjvpu juvpu ynl
arngyl neenatrq jvgu vgf sryybjf ba n genl. Fur urefrys svyyrq gur fznyy
puvan pbssrr-phcf. Vg nyy ynfgrq irel ybat, jnf nyy irel fbyrza naq
cebcre, jvgu zhpu sbeznyvgl nobhg gur rtt naq gur fnaqjvpu. Nqqvr sryg
nf vs ur pbhyq rnfvyl fjnyybj obgu gur rtt naq fnaqjvpu va bar thyc; naq
ur unq gb erfgenva uvzfrys va beqre gb rng gur rtt fybjyl naq arngyl va
yvggyr fcbbashyf naq gb purj gur fnaqjvpu jvgu yvggyr ovgrf, fb nf abg
gb svavfu gbb fbba abe qrcevir gur gnoyr bs vgf rkphfr sbe orvat fb
rynobengryl ynvq. Ur jnf abg fher jurgure ur jnf fgvyy uhatel be abg
jura Tenaqznzzn bssrerq uvz n frpbaq fnaqjvpu; ohg ur gbbx vg, orpnhfr
bgurejvfr ur jbhyq abg unir xabja jung gb qb jvgu uvf unaqf. Ur fng yvxr
n fznyy, fgvss yvggyr obl, fulyl; naq, jura ur ybbxrq hc ng uvf sngure,
vg frrzrq gb uvz gung ur gbb jnf fvggvat nf vs ur unq rngra uvf fnaqjvpu
gbb snfg. Tenaqznzzn urefrys ohggrerq uvf oernq sbe uvz naq bssrerq vg
gb uvz, ernql phg vagb fgevcf. Ur ngr gur aneebj svatref jvgu n terng
rssbeg ng frys-pbageby.

Vg ynfgrq raqyrffyl ybat; naq gur gnoyr erznvarq juvgr, oner naq arng,
abj gung gur fnaqjvpurf jrer svavfurq; gur rzcgl pbssrr-phcf tnir gur
bayl gbhpu bs hagvqvarff: gur oebxra, lryybjl rtt-furyyf Tenaqznzzn unq
chg njnl ba gur fvqrobneq. Jura gurl ebfr, Tenaqcncn nfxrq Uraev gb pbzr
naq fzbxr n pvtne va uvf fghql; Tenaqznzzn fgnlrq va gur fvggvat-ebbz
jvgu Pbafgnapr naq Nqqvr. Ba gur ebnq bhgfvqr, gur enva fcynfurq va gur
chqqyrf.

Pbafgnapr sryg n fgenatre va guvf ubhfr. Arireguryrff, ure zbbq orpnzr
fbsgre, orpnhfr gur byq jbzna'f rlrf, va gur fgvss, fvyire-senzrq snpr,
jrer fgvyy fnq naq pbafgnagyl svyyrq jvgu grnef. Fur jnf irel frafvgvir
gb nal rzbgvba va nabgure; naq, gubhtu fur sbhtug ntnvafg vg, fur
urefrys sryg zbirq. Fur jnagrq gb gnyx gb guvf tenaqzbgure nobhg ure
tenaqfba; naq fb fur fnvq ubj pyrire ur jnf, ubj tbbq gb uvf cneragf.
Zef. ina qre Jrypxr abqqrq tbbq-angherqyl, ohg pbagvahrq gb ybbx hcba
Nqqvr nf n puvyq, juvyr Pbafgnapr jnf gnyxvat bs uvz nf zna. Gur byq
jbzna qvq abg shyyl tenfc gur zrnavat bs Pbafgnapr' jbeqf, ohg gur fbhaq
bs gurz vapernfrq ure rzbgvba. Fur pnyyrq Nqqvr gb ure fvqr, fnvq gung
ur zhfg pbzr naq fgnl jvgu gurz va gur fhzzre: vg jnf qryvtugshy va gur
pbhagel gura, sbe tnzrf. Gur obl unq vg ba uvf yvcf gb fnl gung uvf
cneragf pbhyq abg qb jvgubhg uvz; ohg ur sryg gung uvf jbeqf jbhyq fbhaq
fgenatr naq ryqreyl naq cevttvfu. Naq ur bayl fnvq, irel cerggvyl:

"V fubhyq yvxr gb, Tenaqznzzn."

Ur cynlrq ng orvat n yvggyr puvyq, orpnhfr Tenaqznzzn unccrarq gb ybbx
hcba uvz nf bar. Ernyyl ur jnf guvaxvat bs fbzrguvat irel qvssrerag,
guvaxvat bs gur ubhfrf juvpu ur unq frra lrfgreqnl jvgu Cncn naq Znzzn
naq juvpu uvf cneragf pbhyq abg nterr hcba, va nal cnegvphyne: gur
arvtuobheubbq, gur qvivfvba bs gur ebbzf. Orpnhfr ur xarj gung gur ubgry
jnf rkcrafvir naq gung obgu Cncn naq Znzzn jbhyq orpbzr yrff svqtrgl
bapr gurl unq n ubhfr, ur gubhtug bs phggvat gur Tbeqvna xabg naq tbvat
ol uvzfrys gb gur bjare bs n avpr ubhfr arne gur Jbbqf, abg fb irel sne
sebz Tenaal ina Ybjr'f. Vs ur qvqa'g vagresrer, vg jbhyq or jrrxf naq
jrrxf orsber Cncn naq Znzzn znqr hc gurve zvaqf. Ur xarj gung gb gnxr n
ubhfr jnf n irel frevbhf znggre, ohg ur nyfb xarj gung Cncn naq Znzzn
jbhyq arire nterr. Ur zhfg arrqf, gurersber, evfx fbzrguvat naq ur jbhyq
ubcr sbe gur orfg, ubcr gung nyy jbhyq ghea bhg jryy.

"N pbhcyr bs ubhfrf snegure ba, gurer ner gjb irel avpr yvggyr oblf: lbh
funyy frr gurz jura lbh pbzr va gur fhzzre, Nqevnna."

"Lrf, Tenaqznzzn."

Uvf ibvpr fbhaqrq irel ersvarq naq fbsg; naq Pbafgnapr unq gb fzvyr.
Ohg, juvyr ur fng gurer fgvssyl, jvgu uvf fubhyqref fdhnerq naq uvf yrtf
pybfr gbtrgure, ur jnf qvivqvat gur ebbzf bs gur ubhfr arne gur Jbbqf.
Znzzn, zrnajuvyr, jnf rkpunatvat gbvyfbzr jbeqf jvgu Tenaqznzzn. Ur
cbegvbarq bhg gur ebbzf. Qbjafgnvef, gur qenjvat-ebbz naq gur
qvavat-ebbz, zber be yrff nf ng Hapyr Treevg'f: gubfr gjb ebbzf nyjnlf
pbzzhavpngrq va Ubyynaq, jvgu sbyqvat-qbbef orgjrra gurz. Naq gur yvggyr
pbafreingbel. Naq gur yvggyr tneqra jnf dhvgr avpr. Hcfgnvef, gur ynetr
ebbz sbe Znzzn naq gur fznyyre bar sbe Cncn; naq vg jnf wbyyl gung ur
uvzfrys pbhyq unir gung fbeg bs gheerg-ebbz, jvgu n obj-jvaqbj, va
orgjrra gurve gjb orqebbzf. Fb ur jbhyq or orgjrra Cncn naq Znzzn. Nobir
gung, gurer jnf fgvyy n fbeg bs nggvp sybbe, ohg gung qvq abg pbaprea
uvz: Znzzn zhfg znantr gung. Vg jnf engure evfxl creuncf, gb tb gb gung
sng zna gb-zbeebj--n pbagenpgbe, Cncn pnyyrq uvz--naq gryy uvz gung Cncn
unq frag uvz gb fnl gung ur jbhyq gnxr gur ubhfr.... Creuncf gung ubhfr
va gur fbzrguvat ina Anffnhfgenng jnf orggre, ovttre. Ohg vg jnf qrnere
nyfb.... Creuncf Cncn jbhyq or natel, vs ur npgrq whfg yvxr gung, bss
uvf bja ong; ohg, bs pbhefr, gurer jbhyq or abguvat frggyrq va oynpx naq
juvgr. Bayl, vs Cncn naq Znzzn bapr xarj gung ur unq orra gb gur sng
zna, jryy, gurl zvtug or n yvggyr natel ng svefg, zvtug fdhnooyr n ovg
zber; naq gura obgu bs gurz jbhyq ybbx ng uvz naq ynhtu naq gurl jbhyq
gnxr gur ubhfr naq rirelguvat jbhyq or nyy evtug.... Vs gurl qvq abg
qrpvqr n ovg dhvpxre, vs gurl jrag ba fdhnooyvat, gurve Oehffryf
sheavgher jbhyq fhqqrayl or gurer, va sebag bs gurve abfrf, naq gurl
jvgubhg n ubhfr gb chg vg va.... Vg jnf gehr, Tenaal ina Ybjr unq fnvq,
"Or pnershy nobhg gnxvat n ubhfr:" gung jnf nyy irel jryy jura crbcyr
nterrq; ohg gung'f jung Cncn naq Znzzn arire qvq. Gurl unq pbzr gb
Ubyynaq, orpnhfr ur unq fnvq:

"Jul, V'z n Qhgpu obl, nera'g V? Gura yrg'f tb!"

Jryy, gurl jbhyq gnxr gur ubhfr nsgre ur unq orra gb gur sng zna. Gurer
jnf abguvat ryfr gb or qbar, gubhtu vg jnf evfxl.

Cncn pnzr qbjafgnvef jvgu Tenaqcncn, ybbxvat zber purreshy: creuncf ur
unq orra gnyxvat gb uvf sngure. Gurl fng ba n yvggyr ybatre naq Cncn
gbbx bhg uvf jngpu bapr be gjvpr....

Gura gur pneevntr qebir hc; gur byq pbnpuzna, jub unq xabja Cncn nf n
fznyy obl, qebir gurz gb gur fgngvba, jurer gurl neevirq gjragl zvahgrf
gbb fbba.

Dhvrgyl, jvgubhg fcrnxvat, gurl jnyxrq hc naq qbja, jnvgvat sbe gur
genva....




PUNCGRE KVV


Arkg zbeavat, Nqqvr jrag gb cynl jvgu Hapyr Treevg naq Nhag Nqryvar'f
puvyqera naq gubhtug vg irel wbyyl gb ebzc nobhg yvxr gung jvgu fvk be
frira yvggyr obl- naq tvey-pbhfvaf, gur byqrfg n tvey bs rvtug lrnef naq
gur lbhatrfg n onol gra zbaguf byq. Ur nzhfrq uvzfrys va n sngureyl
snfuvba jvgu nyy gurfr lbhatfgref, vairagvat arj tnzrf naq pnhfvat n
pregnva frafngvba nf n ovt, arj, fgebat pbhfva bs guvegrra. Gur jubyr
zbeavat, ubjrire, ur jnf guvaxvat bs gur sng zna, gb jubz ur unq orra
irel rneyl gb fnl gung Cncn jbhyq cebonoyl gnxr gur ubhfr naq jbhyq yvxr
uvz gb pnyy ng gur Uegry qrf Vaqrf ng frira b'pybpx gung riravat. Ur unq
tbar ba gb Hapyr Treevg'f sebz gurer, naq va uvf urneg gubhtug vg engure
n ober, sbe, nsgre nyy, ur zhfg cercner Cncn naq Znzzn sbe gur ivfvg bs
gur sng zna, jub jnf gb oevat n qensg bs gur yrnfr jvgu uvz. Fb, nsgre
rngvat n fnaqjvpu ng Nhag Nqryvar'f, ur cynlrq n yvggyr ybatre jvgu gur
puvyqera, jub jrer abg tbvat bhg, orpnhfr vg jnf envavat, naq, fbba
nsgre, uheevrq gb gur Nyrknaqrefgenng, gb Tenaal ina Ybjr'f, jurer ur
xarj gung ur jbhyq svaq Znzzn. Pbafgnapr jnf fvggvat jvgu ure zbgure naq
gryyvat ure nobhg Cncn naq Znzzn ina qre Jrypxr naq ubj gurl unq
erprvirq ure. Hapyr Cnhy jnf gurer. Nqqvr, n yvggyr areibhf, nfxrq jurer
Cncn jnf, jurer Cncn unq tbar gung nsgreabba.

"Cncn jrag gb ybbx ng n pbhcyr bs ubhfrf va gur
Anffnh-Qvyyraohetfgenng.... Qvq lbh rawbl lbhefrys ng Hapyr Treevg'f?"

"Bu, lrf, gurl ner avpr yvggyr guvatf. Jung ner lbh qbvat guvf
nsgreabba, Znzzn?"

"V funyy fgnl ba n yvggyr jvgu Tenaal naq gura jr ner obgu tbvat gb
Hapyr naq Nhag Ehliranre'f. Jvyy lbh pbzr gbb, Nqqvr?"

"Jryy, V ernyyl jnag gb gnyx gb Cncn."

Fur jnf wrnybhf ng bapr:

"Lbh pna arire or n zbzrag jvgubhg lbhe sngure. Jung qbrf vg zrna? V
unira'g frra lbh gur jubyr zbeavat; naq gur svefg guvat lbh qb vf gb nfx
sbe Cncn! V qba'g xabj jurer Cncn vf. Cncn unf na nccbvagzrag, V
oryvrir, ng gur Jvggr Pyho, jurer ur jnf gb zrrg fbzr byq sevraqf; ohg
lbh pna'g tb gb gur Jvggr!"

"Vfa'g Cncn pbzvat onpx gb qvaare ng gur ubgry?"

"V oryvrir Cncn vagraqrq gb fgnl naq qvar ng gur Jvggr. Ohg V ernyyl
qba'g xabj. V'z abg va gur unovg bs pbagebyyvat Cncn'f zbirzragf."

Ur ybbxrq ng ure gubhtugshyyl:

"V zhfg nofbyhgryl frr Cncn orsber frira b'pybpx, Znzzn."

"Ohg jul orsber frira b'pybpx? Vf gurer nalguvat lbh jnag? Jba'g V qb?
Qba'g V pbhag ng nyy?"

"Lrf," ur fnvq, "jura lbh'er abg fb pebff. Gur bjare bs gur ubhfr va gur
Xrexubsynna, arne gur Jbbqf, vf pbzvat gb pnyy orsber frira."

"Ubj qb lbh xabj?"

"V jrag gb uvz guvf zbeavat, ba zl jnl gb Hapyr Treevg'f."

"Jryy?"

"Naq V gbyq uvz Cncn jbhyq cebonoyl gnxr gur ubhfr naq nfxrq uvz gb pbzr
gb gur ubgry, ng frira b'pybpx, naq oevat n qensg bs gur yrnfr jvgu
uvz."

Ur fhqqrayl orpnzr irel hapbzsbegnoyr, orpnhfr uvf tenaqzbgure naq uvf
hapyr fng fgnevat ng uvz.

"Ohg, Nqqvr," fnvq Tenaal ina Ybjr, abg dhvgr haqrefgnaqvat, "ubj qvq
lbh pbzr gb qb gung? Qvq Cncn gryy lbh gb tb?"

"Ab, Tenaal, Cncn fnvq abguvat nobhg vg, ohg vg'f n irel avpr ubhfr
vaqrrq; naq, vs Cncn naq Znzzn pbhyq bayl nterr, V jbhyqa'g vagresrer;
ohg, nf vg vf, V ernyyl zhfg. Bgurejvfr gur sheavgher jvyy or urer sebz
Oehffryf naq Cncn naq Znzzn fgvyy ybbxvat sbe n ubhfr, rnpu va n
qvssrerag cneg bs gur gbja."

Ur gnyxrq syhragyl, ohg ur jnf irel hapbzsbegnoyr naq uvf snpr jnf nf
erq nf sver, sbe vg jnf cynva gung Tenaal qvq abg lrg haqrefgnaq; naq
Hapyr Cnhy fng funxvat jvgu ynhtugre naq gelvat gb chyy uvz orgjrra uvf
xarrf; naq guvf jnf ab zbzrag sbe ebzcvat.

"Bu, qba'g, Hapyr Cnhy, cyrnfr!..."

Ohg Cnhy ynhturq naq fubbx uvz ol gur fubhyqref; naq Tenaqznzzn sebjarq;
naq lrg vg jnf ernyyl irel fvzcyr; naq Znzzn gubhtug fb gbb, sbe fur
fnvq, pnyzyl:

"Bu, lbh jrag gb gung ubhfr, qvq lbh?... Gur bar arne gur Jbbqf.... Ubj
znal ebbzf qvq jr fnl gurer jrer?"

"Gurer ner gur gjb ebbzf bcravat vagb rnpu bgure ba gur tebhaq-sybbe,"
fnvq Nqqvr, fgnaqvat, jvgu n frevbhf snpr, orgjrra Cnhy'f xarrf.
"Hcfgnvef, lbh pna unir gur ovt orqebbz naq Cncn gur fznyyre bar, jvgu n
yvggyr ebbz arkg gb vg nf n fzbxvat-ebbz; naq gura V fubhyq yvxr gung
gheerg-ebbz, jvgu gur obj-jvaqbj, lbh xabj...."

"Lrf; ohg, Nqqvr, gur ubhfr va gur Rzznfgenng unf ovttre ebbzf."

"Vg vf snegure sebz Tenaal naq gjb uhaqerq thvyqref qrnere; fb chg gur
ubhfr va gur Rzznfgenng bhg bs lbhe zvaq...."

Tenaal ina Ybjr fng ybbxvat orsber ure va qhzo nznmrzrag; Cnhy yvfgrarq
nggragviryl; naq Pbafgnapr naq Nqqvr pbagvahrq gb qvfphff gur zrevgf naq
qrzrevgf bs gur gjb ubhfrf:

"Gurer'f n ovt pryyne va gur ubhfr arne gur Jbbqf ... naq n avpr yvggyr
tneqra, qb lbh erzrzore?... Naq V guvax vg wbyyl gb or pybfr gb gur
Jbbqf."

"Lrf; ohg, Nqqvr, vg frrzf gb zr gung, va gur Rzznfgenng ..."

"Qb chg gung ubhfr bhg bs lbhe zvaq, Znzzn: vg'f qnzc...."

"Naq gur pbagenpgbe vf pbzvat, lbh fnl?"

"Lrf, ng frira b'pybpx."

Znzzn ina Ybjr pbhyq bayl fvg naq fgner ng ure qnhtugre naq ure tenaqfba
ol gheaf. Cnhy ohefg vagb n serfu ebne bs ynhtugre ng gur fvtug bs uvf
zbgure'f snpr.

"Lrf, Zbgure, gurfr ner gur gvzrf jr yvir va! V arire qnerq gnxr n ubhfr
sbe lbh; abj qvq V?"

Pbafgnapr sbe gur svefg gvzr nccrnerq gb ernyvmr gung Nqqvr zhfg frrz n
yvggyr dhrre gb ure zbgure:

"Bu, ur'f nyjnlf yvxr gung!" fur fnvq. "Ur urycf hf. Ur'f n zna. Nera'g
lbh, zl zna?..."

Ur abj jrag hc gb ure naq xvffrq ure, gb cyrnfr ure:

"Fb lbh frr, V zhfg svaq Cncn orsber frira b'pybpx, be ur'yy or natel,"
ur fnvq, xrrcvat gb gur cbvag.

"Jryy, funyy jr tb ebhaq gb gur Jvggr gbtrgure?" nfxrq Cnhy.

"Bu, Hapyr, gung jbhyq or njshyyl tbbq bs lbh!"

"Ohg V pna'g gnxr lbh va, byq punc!"

"Ab, Hapyr, V'yy jnvg bhgfvqr, vs lbh'yy whfg ybbx sbe Cncn naq gryy uvz
V jnag gb fcrnx gb uvz."

"Nobhg n ubhfr lbh'ir gnxra sbe uvz!"

"Ab, qba'g or fvyyl, Hapyr."

"Tbbq-olr, Pbafgnapr; tbbq-olr, Znzzn: V'z tbvat jvgu zl Arcurj Nqqvr
... gb gur Jvggr!"

Naq Cnhy fgbbq hc, pubxvat jvgu ynhtugre, juvyr Nqqvr, nsenvq bs zvffvat
uvf sngure, hetrq uvz gb uheel.

"Ohg, zl qrne," nfxrq Zef. ina Ybjr, "qbrf lbhe obl nyjnlf gnxr gur ynj
vagb uvf bja unaqf yvxr gung?"

"Bu, Znzzn, ur vf fhpu n uryc gb hf!"

"Ohg jung n jnl gb oevat uvz hc! Gung'f abg n obl bs guvegrra!"

"Ur vf n irel hapbzzba puvyq. Jurer fubhyq jr or vs ur qvqa'g uryc hf."

"Fb lbh guvax Ina qre Jrypxr jvyy gnxr gur ubhfr arne gur Jbbqf?"

"V'z fher bs vg!... Naq V'z dhvgr fher gbb gung, vs Nqqvr unqa'g
vagresrerq, va nabgure fvk zbaguf jr fubhyq fgvyy or ng gur ubgry!"

Arkg qnl, Ina qre Jrypxr, Pbafgnapr naq Nqqvr jrag gb unir bar zber ybbx
ng gur ubhfr arne gur Jbbqf.

Naq gur ubhfr jnf gnxra, ba n svir lrnef' yrnfr.




PUNCGRE KVVV


Juvyr Pbafgnapr jrag va naq bhg bs gur fubcf, ba ure ahzoreyrff reenaqf,
Cnhy arire yrsg ure fvqr:

"Lbh frr," ur fnvq, tynq gb unir fbzr bar gb yvfgra gb uvz sbe gur svefg
gvzr va uvf yvsr, "jung V pnyy uhzna jergpurqarff vf abg pbasvarq gb gur
fbpvny dhrfgvba, ohg rkvfgf rireljurer, rireljurer.... Ybbx nebhaq lbh,
va gur fgerrg. Vg'f envavat; naq crbcyr ner jnyxvat haqre qevccvat
hzoeryynf. Ybbx ng gubfr jbzra va sebag bs hf: jrg fxvegf; zhqql fubrf,
jbea ng urry, fcynfuvat guebhtu gur chqqyrf: gung vf uhzna
jergpurqarff.... Ybbx ng gung zna bire gurer: sng fgbznpu; fdhvagvat
rlrf; tbhgl svatref pyhgpuvat n funool hzoeryyn-unaqyr: gung vf uhzna
jergpurqarff.... Rirelguvat gung vf htyl, fdhnyvq, zhqql, qeno, noabezny
sebz nal bar cbvag bs ivrj vf uhzna jergpurqarff.... Ybbx ng nyy gubfr
fubcf, jurer lbh ohl--be qba'g ohl--genful znahsnpgherq guvatf gung unir
oybbq pyvatvat gb gurz, guvatf juvpu lbh ner abj cergraqvat gung lbh
arrq sbe lbhe ubhfr: gung vf uhzna jergpurqarff.... Vg'f nyy htyl; naq
gur genvy bs n zbeovq pvivyvmngvba fubjf guebhtu vg nyy.... Ybbx nebhaq
lbh, ng gubfr ovt, ylvat yrggref, gubfr tnhql cbfgref: gung vf uhzna
jergpurqarff. Bar purngf gur bgure; naq gur jubyr guvat unf orpbzr fhpu
n znggre bs flfgrz gung abobql vf ernyyl gnxra va. Vg'f gur fnzr jvgu
cbyvgvpf naq eryvtvba nf jvgu n cbhaq bs fhtne be n obk bs
guebng-ybmratrf. Vg vf nyy uhzoht naq nyy uhzna jergpurqarff. Naq vg
qentf ba, cvrprzrny, guebhtu nal nirentr uhzna yvsr. Vg vf nyy fdhnyvq,
ihytne, vafvaprer, frysvfu, htyl naq shyy bs uhzna jergpurqarff. Lbh
guvax zr n crffvzvfg? Sne sebz vg. V nz na vqrnyvfg: va zl bja zvaq, V
frr rirelguvat va n ebfl yvtug. Zl cbjre bs vzntvangvba vf fb fgebat
gung V frr rirelguvat juvgr naq tbyq naq oyhr, yvxr gur zneoyr fgnghrf
bs napvrag grzcyrf, jvgu gurve oyhr fxl naq tbyqra fha. Ohg, jura V gnxr
yrnir bs zl vzntvangvba, gura V frr gung rirelguvat vf uhzna
jergpurqarff: jnef; cbyvgvpf; gur sng fgbznpu bs bhe sevraq lbaqre; gur
enva; naq gubfr cbgf naq cnaf juvpu lbh'er jnagvat sbe lbhe xvgpura. Nyy
yvsr, uvtu naq ybj, trareny naq vaqvivqhny, va gur znffrf naq va gur
pynffrf, vf fdhnyvq, htyl, vafvaprer naq shyy bs uhzna jergpurqarff.
Ybbx ng gung perngher bire gurer. Jung n zvfrenoyr bowrpg: fur vf
xabpx-xarrq; ure abfr vf n lneq ybat; naq gur ernfba jul fur'f va guvf
svygul fgerrg vf nofheq! Lbh guvax V qba'g xabj jung V'z gnyxvat nobhg,
ohg V qb. Lbh arire frr nalguvat ornhgvshy rkprcg ng gur gurnger, be va
n obbx, be va n cvpgher be na rgpuvat ... be va n terng jevgre gnxvat hc
uvf cra va qrsrapr bs fbzr bhgpnfg, nf Mbyn qvq. Ohg rira gura gurer vf
irel yvggyr; naq V ng bapr frr gur uhzna jergpurqarff guebhtu vg nyy:
gur cbfr, gur nssrpgngvba--rira gung bs fborearff--gur nzovgvba gb
fhpprrq, be gb vzvgngr fbzr bar be bgure. Ab bar unf n cher gubhtug sbe
chevgl'f fnxr ... rkprcg n sryybj yvxr Mbyn. Gurer'f ab ornhgl naljurer.
Unir lbh rire abgvprq, va n genva, be va n genz-pne, be ng n gurnger,
nyy gubfr fghcvq, htyl snprf, gubfr pebbxrq obqvrf, rvgure gbb sng be
gbb guva, bar jvgu n oyvax--yvxr guvf--nabgure jvgu n fdhvag--yvxr
gung--guvf bar jvgu yvggyr unvef va uvf rnef naq gung bar jvgu unaqf
gung znxr lbh fvpx. V qba'g xabj vs lbh haqrefgnaq zr; ohg nyy bs guvf,
jvgu cbyvgvpf naq gur fbpvny dhrfgvba naq gubfr fjnezf bs sng fgbznpuf
yvxr bhe sevraq'f whfg abj: nyy bs guvf vf jung V pnyy uhzna
jergpurqarff.... V znl jevgr n obbx nobhg vg fbzr qnl; ohg creuncf zl
obbx vgfrys jbhyq or zreryl uhzna jergpurqarff...."

Va gur zrnagvzr, ur unq orra sbyybjvat uvf fvfgre vagb guerr fubcf, bar
nsgre gur bgure, naq fur unq znantrq gb znxr ure chepunfrf va orgjrra
uvf cuvybfbcuvmvatf. Jurarire ur fnj uvf punapr, ur jrag ba fcrnxvat,
jnyxvat nfynag orfvqr ure naq gnyxvat vagb ure rne, pbafgnagyl univat gb
zbir bss gur aneebj cnirzragf bs gur Ubbtfgenng naq Irrarfgenng, ybfvat
ure sbe n zbzrag, orpnhfr gurl jrer frcnengrq ol n pbhcyr bs pneevntrf
tbvat ng n sbbg-cnpr, ohg fbba pngpuvat ure hc ntnva. Naq ur arire ybfg
gur guernq bs uvf gubhtugf:

"V frr gung lbh unir arire ersyrpgrq zhpu, whfg yvxr zbfg jbzra. Jung V
fnl vf dhvgr arj gb lbh. Lbh unir abg rira bofreirq zhpu. Lbh fubhyq
bofreir, lbh fubhyq abgr nyy gur dhrre guvatf naq crbcyr nobhg lbh. Abg
gung lbh naq V bhefryirf ner abg dhrre naq orunir dhrreyl. Jr pna'g uryc
vg. Jr gbb fghzoyr nybat va bhe uhzna jergpurqarff. Ohg va lbhe obl--vg
jnf dhvgr nggenpgvir--V fnj fbzrguvat shaal; naq lrg ur jnf irel
frevbhf, zhpu gbb frevbhf sbe n puvyq. Lbhe obl, lbhe obl vf pregnvayl n
zna bs gur shgher. Fbzrgvzrf lbh frr n guvat yvxr gung va n puvyq: gura
lbh fnl gb lbhefrys, 'Ur'yy or guvf, ur'yy or gung, ur'yy or gur bgure,
yngre ba, jura ur tebjf hc.' Qb lbh sbyybj zr? Ab, V frr lbh qba'g
sbyybj zr. Vg'f whfg lbhe zbgureyl inavgl gung srryf synggrerq! Bu, ubj
fznyy lbh ner! Gung vf lbhe uhzna jergpurqarff! Qba'g lbh frr gur
fhaavarff va lbhe obl? Ab, lbh qba'g frr vg. V fnj vg ng bapr. Vg jnf
zbfg nggenpgvir. Abg bar bs Oregun'f be Treevg'f be Nqbycuvar'f puvyqera
unf vg. V pna'g rkcynva vg gb lbh, lbh xabj, vs lbh qba'g haqrefgnaq....
Lrf, Fvffl, yvsr vf abg tnl. Lbh ner sbegl-gjb naq V nz bayl
guvegl-svir, ohg V svaq vg ab tnlre guna lbh qb. V frr guebhtu
rirelguvat gbb pyrneyl. V fubhyq arire or noyr, pbafpvbhfyl, gb wbva va
nalguvat gung unq gb qb jvgu uhzna jergpurqarff, gb wbva va ehfuvat
nsgre na haarprffnel bowrpg. Gung vf jul V qb abguvat, rkprcg bofreir.
V'z n qvyrggnagr, lbh frr. Zl vapbzr vf rabhtu gb yvir ba; naq V ybngur
zlfrys sbe cynlvat gur pncvgnyvfg jvgu n ovg bs zbarl yvxr gung, yvxr
gur zvqqyr-pynffrf; ohg V pna'g uryc vg, lbh xabj. V bhtug gb unir orra
evpu, irel evpu. V fubhyq unir cynagrq n pnfgyr ba n zbhagnva-gbc, nzvq
gur juvgrarff bs gur Nycf, naq V jbhyq unir qbar n terng qrny gb zraq
uhzna jergpurqarff; ohg V jbhyq abg unir unq vg nebhaq zr. V ungr vg fb:
V ghea fvpx ng gur fzryy bs n orttne; naq zrnagvzr zl urneg oernxf naq V
srry n culfvpny pbzcnffvba sbe gur cbbe qrivy. Vg'f gur snhyg bs zl
fgbznpu be zl areirf: gurl fvzcyl ghea. Vg'f irel hasbeghangr jura
lbh'er ohvyg gung jnl.... Ubj qb lbh yvxr zl arj birepbng, jvgu gur
iryirg ghea-onpx phssf? Gurl'er engure arng, nera'g gurl? Cvgl gurl'er
trggvat jrg. Ohg vg'f tbbq iryirg, vg qbrfa'g fcbvy.... Naq lrg,
lrfgreqnl, V jnf ernyyl nynezrq jura V fnj zl onpx va gjb
ybbxvat-tynffrf. V unq ab vqrn gung V unq fhpu n ebggra onpx, n onpx
shyy bs uhzna jergpurqarff, va fcvgr bs zl svar birepbng. Gur yvar jrag
yvxr gung, jvgu n fbeg bs uhzc. Vg jnf greevoyr; vg hcfrg zr sbe nyy gur
erfg bs gur qnl. Gura, va gur riravat, V fng qbja ng zl cvnab naq cynlrq
_Vfbyqr'f Yvrorfgbq_; naq gura vg nyy cnffrq.... Lbh pna'g znxr lbhe
yvggyr oebgure bhg, ru? N znq punc, lbh guvax, jung? Lrf, V
nz--nyzbfg--gur znqqrfg bs gur ohapu. Oregun vf irel jryy-onynaprq;
bayl, ure rlrf ner nyjnlf oyvaxvat.... Xnery: jung ur zvtug unir orpbzr,
V qba'g xabj; ohg abj ur vf n ebhaq abhtug, xrcg va rdhvyvoevhz ol gur
ebhaqarff bs Pngrnh jvgu ure bjy'f rlrf.... Gura lbh unir Treevg: ur
ybbxf jryy-onynaprq, ohg vfa'g; chgf ba n wbivny naq travny nve; naq vf
n zrynapubyl qernzre nyy gur gvzr. Lbh qba'g oryvrir vg? Lbh'yy frr vg
sbe lbhefrys, jura lbh xabj uvz orggre.... Arkg pbzr lbh: jryy, lbh
lbhefrys gryy zr lbh'ir unq n fgenatr yvsr jvgu lbhe gjb uhfonaqf....
Nsgre gung, gurl nyy tb qbja-uvyy: Reafg orunirf irel bqqyl; Qbevar gbb
vf fbzrgvzrf dhrre, jvgu gung rireynfgvat gebggvat nobhg; naq V ybbx ng
nyy gurve dhrrearff naq unir n gvyr ybbfr zlfrys.... Fb lbh guvax jr ner
n irel frafvoyr snzvyl? Zl qrne Pbafgnapr, jr unir n terng penpx ehaavat
evtug guebhtu hf, fynagvat, yvxr gung! Ohg jr ner avpr crbcyr naq jr
qba'g yrg gur jbeyq xabj. Lbh jnvg: lbh'yy frr. Naq abj, Fvffl, urer'f
lbhe genz naq urer V yrnir lbh..."

Ur urycrq ure va; naq fur fnj uvz jnyx njnl haqre uvf hzoeryyn,
pnershyyl qelvat jvgu uvf unaqxrepuvrs gur iryirg ghea-onpx phssf bs uvf
arj birepbng.




PUNCGRE KVI


Gubfr jrer ohfl qnlf ng gur Ina Anturyf, shyy bs nyy xvaqf bs
rkpvgrzrag. Rzvyvr jnf gb or zneevrq va guerr jrrxf; naq va n sbegavtug
Ina Antury naq Oregun rkcrpgrq gurve fba Bggb onpx sebz Vaqvn, jvgu uvf
lbhat jvsr naq gurve gjb puvyqera.

Bggb unq gnxra uvf qrterr rneyl, zneevrq naq tbar gb Wnin ng gjragl-sbhe
jvgu n ovyyrg va gur pvivy freivpr. Ohg ur jnf hanoyr gb fgnl, orpnhfr
uvf jvsr unq snyyra vyy ba gur qnl bs gurve neeviny ng Ongnivn naq fur
unq orra vyy rire fvapr. Vg naablrq Ina Antury gb frr uvf fba'f pnerre
vagreehcgrq, rira gubhtu ur jnf fgvyy lbhat naq Ina Antury pbhyq rnfvyl
svaq uvz nabgure nccbvagzrag va Ubyynaq. Ohg ur unq nyjnlf orra ntnvafg
guvf zngpu: n qryvpngr Qhgpu tvey, jvgu ab zbarl. Gurl jbhyq unir gb
gnxr punetr bs gur puvyqera, va Ubyynaq; naq, gubhtu ur jnf jryy bss,
gubhtu uvf jvsr unq fbzr zbarl bs ure bja, gubhtu ur unq uvf fnynel nf n
zvavfgre, vg jnf, nyy gbyq, fpnepryl rabhtu sbe gur irel rkcrafvir
rfgnoyvfuzrag juvpu gurl xrcg hc: gur ryqrfg fba ba uvf jnl ubzr sebz
Vaqvn jvgu uvf jvsr naq gjb puvyqera; gjb oblf, Senaf naq Uraev, jub unq
orra ng Yrvqra sbe bire gjb lrnef naq jub jrer boivbhfyl va ab uheel gb
gnxr gurve qrterrf; guerr tveyf jub jrer nyy bhg, gur frpbaq bs jubz jnf
abj tbvat gb or zneevrq; nabgure obl, bs fvkgrra, naq n tvey bs
sbhegrra; gurve _fnyba_, gb tengvsl Ina Antury'f nzovgvba, na bssvpvny
_fnyba_, n zrrgvat-cynpr sbe zrzoref bs gur uvture tbireazrag-pvepyrf,
juvyr gur qvcybzngvp frg whfg cnffrq guebhtu vg; fb rkcrafvir na
rfgnoyvfuzrag, sebz svefg gb ynfg, gung Oregun unq gb jbex zvenpyrf bs
rpbabzl gb xrrc guvatf tbvat ba svsgl gubhfnaq thvyqref, zber be yrff, n
lrne. Naq rirelguvat jnf tebjvat qrnere: gur gjb oblf, Senaf naq Uraev,
pbfg nyzbfg guerr gvzrf nf zhpu nf Bggb unq pbfg; Rzvyvr naq Znevnaar,
bs jubz gur sbezre unq orra bhg guerr lrnef naq gur bgure whfg bar, unq
zhpu tenaqre vqrnf, va rirel jnl, guna Ybhvfr, jub unq orra bhg fvk; gur
oblf ng Yrvqra jrer obgu gb gnxr cneg va gur znfdhr guvf lrne; Rzvyvr
jnf erprvivat n gebhffrnh gung pbfg guerr gvzrf nf zhpu nf gur bar juvpu
Oregun unq unq va ure qnl sebz Cncn naq Znzzn ina Ybjr; Znevnaar zhfg
unir ure fvzcyrfg qerffrf yvarq jvgu fvyx; Xnery, gur fpubbyobl, n gnyy,
guva, jrnxyl ynq, ohg arireguryrff n zrzore bs nyy fbegf bs sbbgonyy-,
pevpxrg- naq graavf-pyhof, unq na nyybjnapr sbe cbpxrg-zbarl gung jnf
cbfvgviryl evqvphybhf; naq Oregun fnj graqrapvrf va ure lbhatrfg tvey
gung znqr ure nakvbhf sbe gur shgher. Naq fb, bhgjneqyl, vg jnf n terng
ubhfr shyy bs zbirzrag: Cncn n zvavfgre, gur tveyf cerfragrq ng Pbheg,
gur oblf fcraqvat zbarl yhfgvyl; naq, vajneqyl, gurer jnf znal n
qrfcbaqrag pbairefngvba orgjrra Ina Antury naq Oregun nf gb ubj gurl
pbhyq cbffvoyl rpbabzvmr: bs pbhefr, Bggb zhfg or urycrq svefg; gur
oblf, bs pbhefr, zhfg gnxr gurve qrterrf svefg; gur tveyf, bs pbhefr,
jrer obhaq gb tb bhg; naq Xnery, bs pbhefr, jnf boyvtrq gb xrrc hc uvf
sbbgonyy- naq pevpxrg-pyhof. Gurl zvtug tvir bar qvaare yrff rnpu
jvagre, ohg gung jnf ernyyl gur bayl guvat. Naq, vs gur oblf, nsgre
gnxvat gurve qrterrf, jrer gb pbfg nf zhpu zbarl nf Bggb jnf pbfgvat
abj; vs Ybhvfr naq Znevnaar nyfb tbg zneevrq naq unq gb unir gur fnzr
gebhffrnh nf Rzvyvr: vs vg jnf gb tb ba yvxr gung, nyjnlf naq nyjnlf,
jvgu arire n zbzrag sbe gnxvat oerngu naq fnivat n yvggyr: gura gurl qvq
abg xabj jung gurl jrer gb qb; sbe, yrg Oregun pnyphyngr nf zhpu nf fur
cyrnfrq, gur guvat jnf abg gb or qbar ba svsgl gubhfnaq thvyqref n lrne.

Gura, vs Ina Antury ybfg uvf grzcre, ur ercebnpurq Oregun, fnlvat gung
vg jnf nyy ure snhyg, gung fur jnf n Ina Ybjr, gung gur Ina Ybjrf unq
arire orra noyr gb pnyphyngr, gung gur Ina Ybjrf' bja ubhfrxrrcvat unq
orra eha ba zhpu gbb rkgenintnag n fpnyr, va gur byq qnlf; ohg Oregun,
oyvaxvat ure rlrf hazbirq, erzvaqrq uvz gung ur bjrq uvf pnerre gb Cncn
ina Ybjr, gb Cncn'f pbaarpgvbaf va gur lrnef, sbyybjvat hcba uvf grez nf
tbireabe-trareny, jura ur fgvyy unq n terng qrny bs vasyhrapr va
Ubyynaq; naq fur fubjrq uvz ure ubhfrxrrcvat-nppbhagf, va juvpu fur unq
pnershyyl znqr gur qvssrerag ragevrf, gryyvat uvz gung, vs ur nofbyhgryl
vafvfgrq hcba yvivat ba gur fpnyr gurl qvq, vg pbhyq abg or qbar sbe
yrff, jvgu gur orfg jvyy va gur jbeyq.... Naq, frrvat ab jnl bhg bs vg,
gurl znqr sevraqf ntnva naq qvq abg zragvba gur fhowrpg bs zbarl sbe
nabgure zbagu; naq, bhgjneqyl, vg jnf gur erthyne ubhfrubyq bs n
zvavfgre bs fgngr, shyy bs fbyvq Qhgpu pbzsbeg, jvgu n gvatr bs
zbqreavgl fhcrenqqrq: gur puvyqera irel zhpu hc-gb-qngr, ohg gur
cneragf, arireguryrff, frafvoyr crbcyr bs jrvtug naq qvfgvapgvba, dhvgr
njner ubj sne gurl gurzfryirf pbhyq tb naq ubj sne gurl pbhyq yrg gur
puvyqera tb. Gur erny cbfvgvba jnf abg rira fhfcrpgrq ol n fbhy. Oregun
arire fcbxr gb nalobql, abg rira gb ure zbgure, bs nalguvat gung unq gur
snvagrfg pbaarpgvba jvgu zbarl. Gb gurve eryngvbaf naq sevraqf, gur
ubhfr va gur Ormhvqraubhg fcernq vgf oebnq sebag jvgu fhpu na nve bs
fbyvq qvtavgl, gur fgnvepnfrf, gur qenjvat-ebbzf naq qvavat-ebbz jvgu
gurve fgngryl, unaqfbzr sheavgher, gur puvyqera'f ebbzf--zber zbqrea va
fglyr, ohg fgvyy jvgu ab syvzfl nssrpgngvba bs gnjqel ryrtnapr--nyy znqr
fb terng na vzcerffvba bs vzcrevfunoyr cebfcrevgl gung ab bar pbhyq rire
unir fhfcrpgrq gung gur gjb cneragf fbzrgvzrf fng erpxbavat hc sbe ubhef
ng n gvzr gb frr jurgure gurl pbhyq erqhpr gurve rkcrafrf ol nf zhpu nf
n gubhfnaq thvyqref gung zbagu. Va guvf ubhfr bs gurvef, abgjvgufgnaqvat
nyy gur ohfgyr, gur qvaaref, gur nccebnpuvat jrqqvat, gur nccebnpuvat
ubzr-pbzvat bs gur ryqrfg fba, sbe jubz n frg bs ebbzf jnf orvat
cercnerq ba gur gbc sybbe, rirelguvat frrzrq gb tb fb zrgubqvpnyyl,
jvgubhg nal gebhoyr--ohfvyl, vg vf gehr, ohg dhvgr unezbavbhfyl--gung ab
bar jbhyq rire unir fhfcrpgrq gur yrnfg qvssvphygl. Znzzn ina Ybjr jnf
pbafgnagyl ng Oregun'f qhevat gurfr qnlf naq rira artyrpgrq Pbafgnapr n
yvggyr; ohg fur ybirq guvf ohfgyr: gur nygrengvbaf ba gur gbc sybbe; gur
shff nobhg gur gebhffrnh; gur erurnefnyf bs gur jrqqvat-gurngevpnyf; gur
ybat gnoyrf gb or ynvq, gur sybjref gb or neenatrq, gur ivfvgf gb or
qvfphffrq; qerffrf oebhtug ubzr; gur haqretenqhngrf pbafgnagyl ng gur
Unthr, abvfl, zreel naq lbhat: gur byq jbzna ybirq nyy guvf; vg erzvaqrq
ure bs ure bja ubhfr va gur byq qnlf; vg jnf yvxr n ercrgvgvba bs ure
lbhat yvsr: bayl, fur gubhtug, fur urefrys unq bsgra jbeevrq nobhg
zbarl, rira gubhtu Ina Ybjr unq orra noyr gb fnir qhevat uvf grez nf
tbireabe-trareny, naq Oregun jnf fb ragveryl jvgubhg svanapvny pnerf!
Ubj qryvtugshy gung jnf! Naq fur, nf gur tenaqzbgure, nyfb vagrerfgrq
urefrys va Rzvyvr'f gebhffrnh; fur tnir ure nqivpr naq arire gubhtug
nobhg zbarl; fur fybjyl pyvzorq gur fgnvef gb gur gbc sybbe, gb frr gur
ahefrel juvpu unq orra tbg ernql sbe ure gjb terng-tenaqpuvyqera ba gur
jnl ubzr sebz Vaqvn, cebhq bs gung sbhegu trarengvba, qryvtugvat va gung
ynetr snzvyl, gung ohfl ubhfrubyq, nyy gung zbirzrag, juvpu fur zvffrq
fb terngyl va ure bja ubhfr, jurer ure dhvrg yvsr jnf vagreehcgrq bayl
ol gubfr snzvyl-tngurevatf rirel Fhaqnl riravat. Lrf, fur ybirq orvat
jvgu Ina Antury naq Oregun; fur ybirq gb frr ure fba-va-ynj gnxr n
cebzvarag cynpr va fbpvrgl, nf ure uhfonaq unq qbar va uvf gvzr; fur
ybirq gur fbyvq, qvtavsvrq, bssvpvny ubhfr; naq gur zbqreavgl bs gur
puvyqera, nygubhtu abj naq ntnva fur jbhyq funxr ure urnq va
qvfnccebiny, znqr ure fzvyr sbe nyy gung, orpnhfr fur gubhtug gung
crbcyr zhfg tb jvgu gur gvzrf naq gung Ina Antury naq Oregun jrer irel
frafvoyr abg gb ubyq gur ervaf gbb gvtugyl. Vg jnf gehr, gurer jrer
znaaref juvpu fur qvq abg yvxr: gung tbvat bhg bs lbhat tveyf nybar,
yrggvat gurzfryirf va ng avtug jvgu gurve yngpu-xrlf; ohg gura vg jnf
bayl gb n srj crefbany sevraqf, fnvq Oregun, naq vg jnf vzcbffvoyr gb
znxr bgure neenatrzragf. Lrf, gur byq jbzna ybirq orvat urer, va gur
ubhfr bs ure ryqrfg qnhtugre; naq, gubhtu fur pnerq sbe nyy ure
puvyqera, orpnhfr gurl jrer ure puvyqera, fur sryg zber va ure ryrzrag
ng Oregun'f guna va gur pbzsbegnoyr, zvqqyr-pynff, frysvfu ubhfr bs
Xnery naq Pngrnh, jubz fur oynzrq sbe univat ab puvyqera; naq, gubhtu,
fur nyfb yvxrq Treevg naq Nqryvar'f lbhatre ubhfrubyq, jvgu gur puvyqera
enatvat sebz rvtug lrnef qbja gb gra zbaguf, n gebbc bs snve-unverq
zvgrf, guvatf jrer gbb fvzcyr naq rirelqnl sbe ure gurer, qvq abg erzvaq
ure bs ure napvrag fcyraqbhef; fur pbhyq abg fgnaq Treevg fbzrgvzrf,
jura ur znqr sha bs uvf byq zbgure sbe zragvbavat, dhvgr pnfhnyyl, gung
fur unq zrg gur Ehffvna raibl ng Oregun'f. Naq tbvat gb Nqbycuvar naq
Ina Fnrgmrzn'f nyjnlf irkrq ure: vg jnf nf gubhtu fur qvq abg erpbtavmr
ure puvyq va Nqbycuvar, jvgu ure onqyl-neenatrq, pbzzba ubhfr naq
Nqbycuvar fb ovggre naq fb raivbhf naq wrnybhf bs Oregun, rfcrpvnyyl abj
gung Sybbegwr jnf ratntrq naq ure gebhffrnh, bs pbhefr, pbhyq abg or nf
svar nf Rzvyvr'f. Lrf, fur jrag gb Nqbycuvar'f naq qvfphffrq gur
gebhffrnh gurer nyfb, ohg fur qvq abg pner nobhg vg: abg orpnhfr vg jnf
fvzcyr--n gebhffrnh pbhyq or irel avpr va fcvgr bs gung--ohg orpnhfr
Nqbycuvar jnf nyjnlf fb fcvgrshy, jvgu ure crecrghny "Lrf, gung'f tbbq
rabhtu sbe hf; ohg, bs pbhefr, ng Oregun'f!..." Fur sryg urefrys n
zbgure gb nyy ure puvyqera--unq fur n snibhevgr? Fur gubhtug abg--ohg
fur jnf irel sbaq bs tbvat gb Oregun'f, orpnhfr fur sbhaq ure bja cnfg
gurer.

Naq jung gur byq jbzna ybirq nobir nyy guvatf va Oregun'f ubhfr jnf gur
zhghny flzcngul, gur snzvyl-nssrpgvba juvpu fur unq nyjnlf sbfgrerq va
ure bja ubhfr, juvpu fur fgvyy sbfgrerq, gunaxf gb gur vafgvghgvba bs
gubfr Fhaqnl riravatf, gb xrrc gur puvyqera gbtrgure ng nyy pbfgf. Lrf,
va Ina Antury naq Oregun gung fragvzrag, gung pbafgnag gubhtug sbe gur
puvyqera jnf irel fgebat; naq gurer jnf bar guvat juvpu Znzzn ina Ybjr
unq abg qbar naq juvpu Oregun jnf qbvat, juvpu jnf gb erprvir gur fba
ntnva, nsgre ur unq bapr yrsg gur ubhfr, abj gung ur jnf ergheavat jvgu
n fvpx jvsr naq gjb yvggyr puvyqera. Vg gbhpurq ure: bu, ubj tbbq gurl
jrer gb gurve gevor; naq jung n gubhfnaq cvgvrf gung gung yvggyr
qbyy-jvsr jnf fb vyy! Naq gur puvyqera, gbb, unq gung fnzr
snzvyl-nssrpgvba nzbat gurzfryirf. Bggb unq nyjnlf xrcg hc n ohfl
pbeerfcbaqrapr jvgu uvf ryqrfg fvfgre, Ybhvfr, jub jnf gjragl-svir naq
pnzr arkg gb uvz va ntr; gur gjb Yrvqra oblf jrer rkprrqvatyl avpr gb
gurve guerr snfuvbanoyr yvggyr fvfgref naq Uraev jnf rira n yvggyr ovg
wrnybhf orpnhfr Rzvyvr jnf ratntrq; bayl Xnery jnf creuncf engure gbb
zhpu bhg bs qbbef naq njnl sebz gur snzvyl-pvepyr sbe fb lbhat n obl,
jvgu nyy uvf pyhof naq uvf vzcbegnapr; naq, orpnhfr bs gung, Znevrgwr,
gur lbhatrfg tvey, bs sbhegrra, jnf yrsg n tbbq qrny nybar. Naq lrg gurl
nyy yvxrq Znevrgwr: ure ovt oebguref, gur bgure tveyf.... Lrf, gung jnf
gur punezvat guvat jvgu nyy gubfr puvyqera: gur snzvyl-nssrpgvba, gur
sbaqarff sbe bar nabgure, gur cevqr va gur anzrf bs Ina Ybjr naq Ina
Antury, gur ershfny gb fhssre nal bhgfvqre gb fnl n jbeq ntnvafg n
zrzore bs gur snzvyl, rira gubhtu pevgvpvfz jnf abg fcnerq jvguva gur
ubzr vgfrys. Ohg gung nal npdhnvagnapr fubhyq qner gb ersyrpg hcba n
zrzore bs gur snzvyl, gung gurl jbhyq abar bs gurz crezvg. Gurl unq sryg
gung sbaqarff, gung graqrearff, rira sbe Pbafgnapr, orpnhfr fur jnf n
fvfgre. Naq gur byq ynql erzrzorerq, va fb sne nf pbaprearq Pbafgnapr,
gur cuvybfbcuvpny ersyrkvbaf bs ure lbhatrfg fba, Cnhy; gur gebhoyr
juvpu Qbevar unq gnxra gb nffrzoyr nyy gur oebguref naq fvfgref ba gung
svefg Fhaqnl-riravat; gur ernql pbzcyvnapr bs nyy ure puvyqera, sbe, bhg
bs erfcrpg gb ure, abar bs gurz unq pevgvpvmrq gung reevat fvfgre va
sebag bs ure. Fur fnj vg va nyy bs gurz: gur snzvyl-nssrpgvba sbe bar
nabgure. Gurl nyy sryg gurzfryirf gb or oebguref naq fvfgref; gurl fgbbq
hc sbe bar nabgure, rira gubhtu gurer jrer qvssreraprf bs bcvavba
fbzrgvzrf naq rira wrnybhfl; gurl sryg havgrq jvguva gur snzvyl-pvepyr.

Gung jnf gur pebjavat tybel bs ure byq ntr, nf n zbgure naq tenaqzbgure.
Vg ercerfragrq gb ure n ornhgvshy vqrn, n angheny vqrny, na vyyhfvba
nggnvarq: n pbzsbeg sbe gur crnprshy qrpyvavat lrnef bs gur ybaryl jbzna
va ure ovt ubhfr. Gung fur cersreerq gb or ybaryl va ure ovt ubhfr naq
jbhyq abg unir Qbevar, abe Reafg, abe Cnhy gb yvir jvgu ure jnf na
rppragevpvgl juvpu va ab jnl qrgenpgrq sebz ure phyg bs gur ornhgvshy
vqrn, sebz ure cresrpg unccvarff ng frrvat gur vqrny ernyvmrq, gur
vyyhfvba nggnvarq. Fur unq n unccl byq ntr. Fur unq nyfb unq zhpu fbeebj
va ure ovt ubhfrubyq, va fcvgr bs nyy ure fcyraqbhe, ohg abg zber guna
ure angheny funer: zbarl-gebhoyrf, orpnhfr arvgure Ina Ybjr abe fur jnf
rpbabzvpny; gjb puvyqera ybfg, bar nsgre gur bgure; juvyr Pbafgnapr'
snyfr fgrc jnf pregnvayl n irel urnil oybj, haqre juvpu fur fhfcrpgrq
gung Ina Ybjr unq ernyyl fhpphzorq, fhssrevat fvyragyl naq vaprffnagyl
orpnhfr bs gur tevrs juvpu uvf snibhevgr qnhtugre unq pnhfrq uvz.... Ohg
fur, gubhtu fur gbb unq fhssrerq, unq fubja terngre rynfgvpvgl, unq abg
pbhagrq nyy gung fbeebj sbe zber guna ure uhzna ybg, fhpu nf zvtug
orsnyy nal ynetr ubhfrubyq. Naq gung fur abj, va ure rkgerzr byq ntr,
unq nyy ure puvyqera tngurerq nobhg ure va gur fnzr gbja, va n pybfr
snzvyl-pvepyr, va na nssrpgvbangr snzvyl-yvsr: guvf fur pbafvqrerq n
terng unccvarff; fur gunaxrq Tbq sbe vg. Fur unq ab zber eryvtvba bs gur
puhepu-tbvat xvaq guna jnf uryq gb or pbeerpg va ure pvepyr, juvpu jnf
irel qvssrerag sebz gur begubqbk Pnyivavfgvp pvepyr bs n srj byq Unthr
snzvyvrf; ohg fur jnf tengrshy gb Tbq va ure urneg. Fur gunaxrq Tbq sbe
ure unccvarff, sbe ure unccl byq ntr. Nyy jnf jryy, abj gung fur unq
Pbafgnapr onpx nyfb, onpx jvgu gur bguref ng gur Unthr. Arkg gb
Ohvgrambet, gur Unthr unq nyjnlf orra gb ure gur vqrny cynpr bs
erfvqrapr. Gur Pbheg jnf gurer; naq ure uhfonaq unq gnhtug ure gb ybir
fcyraqbhe. Gurer jnf na ngzbfcurer bs bssvpvny rzvarapr va gurve pvepyr
va juvpu fur gbbx cyrnfher nf va na ryrzrag gung unq orpbzr angheny gb
ure naq va juvpu Ina Antury naq Oregun nyfb unq nggnvarq gurve
qvfgvapgvba naq gurve uvtu cbfvgvba. Xnery unq erghearq gb gur Unthr,
nsgre ohetbznfgrevat ryfrjurer; naq va uvz fur unq ure fba onpx ntnva,
nygubhtu, va ure frperg urneg, fur qvq abg yvxr Pngrnh. Treevg, jub unq
orra n fhonygrea ng Qriragre naq Irayb, jnf abj n pncgnva ng gur Unthr.
Naq gur bgure puvyqera unq arire yrsg gur Unthr; fur unq nyjnlf orra
noyr gb xrrc gurz ebhaq ure.

Fur jnf unccl naq fur jnf abg hagunaxshy. Fur jnf rira gunaxshy gung
Bggb jnf ergheavat--nygubhtu gur ernfba, uvf jvsr'f vyyarff, jnf n fnq
bar--orpnhfr fur jbhyq frr ure terng-tenaqpuvyqera. Gurl jrer ure svefg;
fur sryg n arj wbl orpnhfr bs gurz, na haxabja rzbgvba. Fur unq sryg
fbzrguvat yvxr vg jura Bggb uvzfrys jnf obea, ure svefg tenaqpuvyq; ohg
abj gung srryvat jnf nyzbfg zber vagrafr, creuncf orpnhfr vg jnf n
sbhegu trarengvba, n pbagvahngvba bs gur snzvyl, rira gubhtu gurl jrer
Ina Anturyf naq abg Ina Ybjrf. Fur jnf n jbzna: fur qvq abg pner fb zhpu
nobhg gur anzr. Oregun jnf ure qnhtugre, Bggb ure tenaqfba, uvf puvyqera
ure tenaqpuvyqera. Fur genprq gurz onpx va guvf jnl gb urefrys naq gur
fbhaq bs gur anzr znggrerq yrff gb ure. Gurl jrer ure puvyqera, ure
tenaqpuvyqera, ure terng-tenaqpuvyqera; naq fur ybirq gurz nyy, jvgu bar
terng ybir, jvgu n pynaavfu ybir. Gung fur yvirq nybar va ure ovt ubhfr
jnf orpnhfr fur jnf byq naq pbhyq orne ohfgyr bayl jura vg jnf rkcrpgrq,
jura fur pbhyq cercner sbe vg. Gur Fhaqnl riravatf jrer ohfgyvat, ohg
gurl qvq abg gver ure. Ohg gb unir Cnhy be Qbevar yvivat jvgu ure, gb or
sbe rire urnevat gurz tbvat va naq bhg jbhyq unir jbexrq ba ure areirf.
Fur jnaqrerq qnvyl guebhtu nyy gur ebbzf bs gur ovt ubhfr gb frr vs
rirelguvat jnf gvql naq va vgf cynpr. Qbevar jnf fybirayl; naq Cnhy jnf
nalguvat ohg rnfl gb trg ba jvgu; naq Reafg, jvgu uvf pbyyrpgvba bs
phevbfvgvrf, fur jbhyq arire or noyr gb unir jvgu ure, orpnhfr fur jnf
nsenvq bs nyy gur zvpeborf gung unat nobhg gubfr byq guvatf. Ohg
arireguryrff fur ybirq gurz nyy naq fur jnf tynq gung gurl yvirq ng gur
Unthr naq gung fur fnj gurz erthyneyl. Fur jnf yvxr gung naq ab
bgurejvfr.

Naq fur abj pnzr rirel qnl gb Oregun'f, jnvgvat sbe Bggb naq uvf
puvyqera, hagvy Pbafgnapr terj wrnybhf naq ercebnpurq ure, fnlvat gung
fur arire pnzr gb ure arj ubhfr arne gur Jbbqf.




PUNCGRE KI


Gur Ina Anturyf tnir na riravat-cnegl ng gur Bhqr Qbryra Ubgry, gjb qnlf
fhofrdhrag gb gur fvtavat bs gur zneevntr-pbagenpg orgjrra Rzvyvr naq
Ina Enira: n qvaare, sbe eryngvbaf naq vagvzngr sevraqf, bs arneyl n
uhaqerq pbiref. Nsgre gung, gur lbhat crbcyr jrer gb qb fbzr
gurngevpnyf; naq, nsgre gung, gurer jnf n qnapr. Qvaare jnf bire; naq
Nqbycuvar nfxrq Hapyr Ehliranre:

"Jrer lbh ng gurve qvaare-cnegl gjb avtugf ntb?"

"Jung qvaare-cnegl?"

"Gur qnl orsber lrfgreqnl, nsgre gur pbagenpg. Gurl tnir n qvaare ng
gurve ubhfr. Nobhg fvkgl crbcyr. Bayl gurve fzneg sevraqf naq gurve
Pbheg frg. Jr jrer abg nfxrq. Znzzn jrag. Ohg abar bs gur oebguref naq
fvfgref."

"V qvq abg rira xabj gurer jnf n qvaare. Jr pnyyrq va gur nsgreabba gb
pbatenghyngr gur oevqr naq oevqrtebbz."

"Jryy, gung riravat gurl tnir gurve tenaq nssnve. Gb-avtug vf bayl n
fznyy cnegl sbe hf naq gur ent-gnt bs gurve npdhnvagnapr. Gur bgure
avtug, Oregun jber n ybj-arpxrq qerff naq n genva. Gb-avtug, fur unf n
uvtu sebpx."

Hapyr ynhturq:

"Lrf," ur fnvq, "gurfr cnegvrf ng ubgryf ner nyjnlf fpengpu nssnvef. Gur
qvaare jnf bayl fb-fb."

"Erthyne ubgry-sbbq."

"U'z. Gur punzcntar jnf tbbq," fnvq Hapyr, jub unq qehax uvf svyy.

"Ubj onqyl Ina Antury fcbxr! Qbrf ur fcrnx nf onqyl nf gung jura ur
vagebqhprf uvf Vaqvna ohqtrg? Naq jung n svther Ina Enira'f zbgure phgf!
Fur ybbxf yvxr V qba'g xabj jung!"

"Fgvyy, gurl'er fzneg crbcyr."

"Lrf, bs pbhefr gurl'er fzneg, be Oregun jbhyq arire unir frvmrq hcba
uvz sbe ure qnhtugre! Ur'f n snfg perngher, gung shgher arcurj bs zvar.
Naq ubj Rzvyvr unatf ba gb uvz! Vs Sybbegwr uhat ba gb Qvwxreubs yvxr
gung, V fubhyq tvir ure n tbbq gnyxvat-gb jura jr tbg ubzr. Rzvyvr
orunirf whfg yvxr n fgerrg-tvey."

Hapyr jnf va n tbbq uhzbhe, orpnhfr ur unq cyragl gb qevax; ur jnf
chssvat n ovg naq jbhyq unir yvxrq gb haqb n ohggba bs uvf jnvfgpbng:
gung qerff-jnvfgpbng bs uvf jnf trggvat engure gvtug sbe uvz.

"Ubj cerggl Sybbegwr vf ybbxvat, Nqbycuvar. Gung juvgr fhvgf ure."

Fur ynhturq unccvyl; fur sryg synggrerq:

"Lrf, qbrfa'g vg? Vg znxrf Rzvyvr ybbx fb cnyr."

Znzzn ina Ybjr cnffrq ba Bggb ina Antury'f nez:

"Vf Senaprf orggre, zl obl?"

"Lrf, Tenaal, fur'f cerggl jryy gb-qnl. Ohg fur trgf gverq fb fbba."

Ur jnf gnyy naq guva, jvgu n fpbjy nobir uvf uneq Ina Ybjr rlrf, uvf
tenaqsngure'f rlrf. Uvf gjb lrnef va Wnin unq znqr uvz fb ovggre gung vg
jnf cnvashy sbe uvf tenaqzbgure naq uvf cneragf gb yvfgra gb uvz.

"Jung n cvgl, Bggb, gung lbh unq gb yrnir Vaqvn!"

"Bu, onu, Tenaal, jung n pbhagel! Vg'f nyy irel jryy sbe lbh gb gnyx:
lbh xabj Vaqvn nf gur jvsr bs n erfvqrag naq nf gur jvsr bs gur
tbireabe-trareny. Ohg sbe lbhat crbcyr, fgnegvat yvsr...."

"Cncn jbhyq unir urycrq lbh, lbh xabj...."

"N ybg bs uryc Cncn pbhyq unir tvira!... N ornfgyl pbhagel; n qvegl,
jergpurq pbhagel!"

"Ohg, Bggb, V gubhtug vg qryvtugshy."

"Ab qbhog, va lbhe cnynpr ng Ohvgrambet. Gung tbrf jvgubhg fnlvat. Ohg
jrer lbh rire pyrex gb gur zntvfgengrf ng Enaxnf-Orgbrat?"

"Ab."

"Ab, bs pbhefr abg. Naq gung jvgu n jvsr jub gbccyrf bire yvxr n
avarcva, gjvpr n jrrx, jvgu gur urng, syng ba gur sybbe!"

"Bggb!"

"Bu, pbzr, Tenaqznzzn! Vg'f gur zbfg pbasbhaqrq, ornfgyl, svygul pbhagel
V rire jnf va. Jr unq zhpu orggre fryy gubfr pbybavrf gb Ratynaq; fur'yy
bayl gnxr gurz sebz hf, bar qnl, vs jr qba'g."

"Bggb, ernyyl V'z abg hfrq gb guvf ynathntr!"

"Bu, lrf, Tenaal, V xabj nyy gung bssvpvny obzonfg nobhg Vaqvn! Ohg jr
pna'g nyy or tbireabe-trareny be pbybavny zvavfgre. Vs V rire orpbzr
gung, V funyy ortva gb jbefuvc Vaqvn ng bapr."

"Lbh'er hcfrg orpnhfr Senaprf vf vyy."

"Vyy? Vyy? Vg gnxrf n jbzna gb or vyy. Fur'f abg rira gung. Fur'f n
errq. Vs lbh oybj hcba ure, fur oernxf."

"Fur jnf n qryvpngr yvggyr guvat nf n tvey, Bggb."

"Jryy, ohg ybbx urer, Tenaal: V pna'g ghea ure vagb n ebohfg yvggyr
guvat, pna V?"

"Sbe funzr, Bggb! Qba'g or fb ovggre. Lbh'ir tbg gjb qneyvat yvggyr
puvyqera."

"Lrf, puvyqera; V jvfu V unqa'g. V'z fbeel sbe gur cbbe yvggyr
qrivyf.... Vf gur fubj ortvaavat abj? Gnoyrnhk-ivinagf, neenatrq ol qrne
byq Ybhvfr.... N cynl jvgubhg jbeqf ol Senaf naq Uraev.... Fgnyr guvatf,
gurfr jrqqvat-cnegvrf, nyjnlf. V gubhtug bhef vafhssrenoyr."

"Zl qrne Bggb, lbh'er va na vagbyrenoyr uhzbhe."

"V'z nyjnlf yvxr gung abj, Tenaal."

"Gura V fgebatyl nqivfr lbh gb rkrepvfr n yvggyr frys-pbageby, be lbh
jvyy arire unir nal unccvarff va yvsr, va lbhe bja be lbhe jvsr'f be
lbhe snzvyl'f."

"Gur snzvyl qbrfa'g nssrpg zl unccvarff."

"Jung qb lbh zrna, Bggb?"

"Jul, V qba'g yvir naq zbir naq unir zl orvat va zl snzvyl, Tenaal!"

"Bu, ernyyl, zl obl, lbh'er gbb ubeevq! Gnxr zr onpx gb zl frng. V frr
lbhe zbgure orpxbavat gb zr: fur jnagf zr gb fvg orgjrra ure naq Nhag
Ehliranre. Gur cresbeznapr vf ortvaavat...."

"Lr-r-rf," Pngrnh jnf juvavat gb Ina Fnrgmrzn, Ina qre Jrypxr naq Xnery.
"Na riravat-cnegl bs fvk-gl crb-cyr. Naq gur Ehf-fvna _Zvavfgre_ jnf
gurer, naq gur Zvf-gerff bs gur _Eborf_."

"Jryy, nsgre nyy, vs gurl unir fb znal npdhnvagnaprf," fnvq Xnery, haqre
uvf oerngu, ol jnl bs rkphfr.

"Lr-r-rf, ohg, Xn-ery, abar bs gur snz-vyl. Ina qre Jry-pxr, jrer _lbh_
vaivgrq, ol punapr?"

"Ab."

"Bu, abg lbh rv-gure? Jryy, V fubhyq unir _gubhtug_ gung fur jbhyq unir
nfxrq Pba-fgnapr...."

"Jul?" nfxrq Ina qre Jrypxr, pbyqyl.

"Jr-ryy, orpnhfr fur hfrq gb tb gb _Pbheg_, va gur _byq_ qnlf. Naq lbh
_gbb_, qvqa'g lbh, Ina qre Jrypxr?"

"Lrf, V gbb," fnvq Ina qre Jrypxr, qevyl.

"Ina qre Jrypxr," fnvq Xnery. "Qvq lbh trg gung pneq bs zvar?"

"Jung pneq?"

"Jul, jura lbh jrer rkcrpgrq va gbja, V pnyyrq naq yrsg n pneq ba lbh."

"Fb qvq V, lbh xabj, Ina qre Jrypxr," vagreehcgrq Ina Fnrgmrzn.

"Bu, lrf," fnvq Ina qre Jrypxr. "Vg jnf irel pvivy bs lbh sryybjf. Jryy,
V'yy yrnir n pneq ba lbh bar bs gurfr qnlf."

"Bu, V qvqa'g zragvba vg sbe gung!" fnvq Ina Fnrgmrzn.

"V qvqa'g zragvba vg ba gung nppbhag!" rpubrq Xnery, fjryyvat jvgu
travnyvgl. "Bayl V fubhyq unir gubhtug vg n ober vs vg unq orra
zvfynvq."

"Lr-rf," juvzcrerq Pngrnh. "Orpnhfr gura vg jbhyq unir ybbxrq nf vs jr
jrera'g sevraq-yl.... Ubj erq gur _oevqr_ ybbxf, Fnrg-mr-zn! Gung juvgr
znxrf Rz-vyvr ybbx fb _irel_ erq."

"Lryybj, engure," fnvq Ina Fnrgmrzn.

"Lr-rf," qebarq Pngrnh. "Abj lbhe Sybbegwr, Fnrg-mr-zn, ybbxf fb _fjrrg_
va juvgr. Naq jung n _avpr_ sryybj Qvw-xreubs vf! Fhpu n gubebhtu _zna_.
Ohg ubj cnyr Ore-gun ybbxf!"

"Terra, engure," fnvq Ina qre Jrypxr, irel frevbhfyl.

Pngrnh ybbxrq hc, jvgu ure bjy'f rlrf:

"Terra?" fur ercrngrq, pnhgvbhfyl. "Qb lbh er-nyyl guvax Ore-gun ybbxf
_terra_, Ina qre Jry-pxr? Lrf, fur vf gverq, ab qbhog."

"Gb-zbeebj," gubhtug Ina qre Jrypxr, "nyy gur Unthr jvyy xabj gung V
gubhtug Oregun ybbxrq terra...."

N gnoyrnh jnf qvfpbirerq va gur qvfgnapr. Gur vqrn jnf Cnhy'f naq ur
rkcynvarq vg gb Pbafgnapr:

"Lbh frr, vg ercerfragf Yhkhel. Gur terng jurry pehfuvat qbja hcba
Znevrgwr naq Pnebyvragwr vf Vaqhfgel; naq Sybbegwr vf Yhkhel, fgnaqvat
va n qnapvat nggvghqr ba Vaqhfgel naq fpnggrevat tbyq naq ebcrf bs
crneyf ng gjbcrapr n ebcr. Vg'f abg dhvgr pyrne, creuncf, Yhkhel
fgnaqvat hcba Vaqhfgel naq pehfuvat Znevnaar naq Pnebyvragwr. Sybbegwr
vf svqtrgvat naq tvttyvat. Bu, V zhfg gryy lbh, Nqbycuvar jnf qryvtugrq
jura fur urneq gung Sybbegwr, ure Sybbegwr, jnf gb or Yhkhel naq gb
pehfu Oregun'f Znevnaar!"

Pbafgnapr, fheebhaqrq ol nyy ure snzvyl, jnf va n tragyr, unccl zbbq:

"Bu, Cnhy, vg'f n irel avpr, zbgureyl srryvat ba Nqbycuvar'f cneg, gb
yvxr gb frr ure puvyq unccl orsber nabgure...."

Cnhy fcyhggrerq jvgu ynhtugre:

"Fb lbh guvax gung Sybbegwr vf unccl nf Yhkhel, ba gur gbc bs Znevnaar
naq gung Znevnaar fhssref onqyl haqrearngu! Pbaavr, ubj fragvzragny lbh
ner gb-avtug naq jung fvyyl guvatf lbh fnl!... Ohg lbh'er ybbxvat irel
avpr. Pbzr, yrg'f tb naq fvg qbja urer. Lbhe unve vf gheavat terl, ohg V
unir na vqrn gung lbh yrnir vg hagbhpurq sbe fbzr pbdhrggvfu ernfba,
orpnhfr vg tbrf fb jryy jvgu lbhe lbhat srngherf. Vg'f n irel cerggl
funqr bs terl. Vg'f abg byq unve. Ohg lbh'er lbhat fgvyy, lbh xabj. Naq
lbh'er ybbxvat avpr, irel avpr...."

"V oryvrir lbh'er znxvat sha bs zr...."

"V ybir tbbq-ybbxvat crbcyr; naq bar frrf fb srj bs gurz. Whfg tynapr
ebhaq gur ebbz: nyy htyl crbcyr; bar jnyxf pebbxrq, nabgure unf n fgbbc,
guvf bar'f ohfg fgvpxf bhg sbe zvyrf, gung bar unf n sng fgbznpu. V
pna'g fgnaq cnegf bs gur obql gung ohytr: vg znxrf zr fvpx gb ybbx ng
gurz.... Lrf, gb or npphengr, arneyl rirelobql'f htyl. Qb lbh xabj, vs
lbh jrer gb gnxr nyy gur urebvarf bhg bs nyy gur abiryf va gur jbeyq,
lbh'q whfg trg bar urnc bs cerggl jbzra. Ab abiryvfg rire qnerf gnxr na
htyl, fdhvagvat, pebbxrq be uhzc-onpxrq urebvar. Vs V jrer n evpu zna,
V'q bssre n cevmr sbe n uvqrbhf urebvar.... Lrf, ybbx ng Nhag Ybg," naq
ur vzvgngrq Zef. Ehliranre'f Vaqvna npprag, "tyvggre_vat_ jvgu
qvn_zbaqf;_ naq ure gjb unaqf cnggvat ure oebja fngva fgbznpu. Nabgure
fgbznpu; naq V pna'g fgnaq fgbznpuf.... Ohg tbbq-angherq, nyy gur fnzr,
vf Nhagvr! Ybbx ng Hapyr: ur'f haohggbarq uvf jnvfgpbng, gur ehqr
sryybj!... Unir lbh abgvprq zl jnvfgpbng, Pbaavr? Vg'f juvgr qevyy, vg'f
irel fzneg.... V fnl, Pbaavr, ybbx ng Znzzn: jung n tenaq byq jbzna, gur
jnl fur jnyxf, ynhtuf naq gnyxf! Abj gung'f fbzrguvat yvxr: lbh frr ng
bapr gung fur'f n terng ynql. Ybbx ng byq Zef. Sevrfrfgrvwa orfvqr ure:
pbzzba, abvfl, fcvgrshy; n svther yvxr n punejbzna'f. Uvqrbhf,
uvqrbhf!... Ybbx ng Reafg, Pbaavr. Jbhyq lbh rire oryvrir gung jnf n
oebgure bs zvar? Whfg yvxr na byq Wrj; naq jung n qerff-pbng, jung n
qerff-pbng! Jurer ba rnegu qvq gur orttne trg vg phg? Ur fcraqf nyy uvf
zbarl ba whtf naq infrf!... Ybbx ng Treevg, Pbaavr. Ur'f cergraqvat gb
or tnl ntnva, gur wbyyl uhffne, jvgu gur oebnq purfg nyy bire ynpr
sebtf. Cbbe sryybj, ur'f qlvat bs zrynapubyl! Lbh qba'g oryvrir zr? Vg'f
gehr, V nffher lbh.... Ybbx ng Nqbycuvar, Pbaavr. Whfg yvxr n oveq
gnyxvat fynaqre: cvc, cvc, cvc! Ubj Oregun'f rnef zhfg gvatyr! Terng
Urniraf, gubfr rlrf bs Oregun'f, nyjnlf oyvaxvat! Fur bhtug gb unir
fbzrguvat qbar gb gurz.... Ybbx ng Qbevar, Pbaavr. Fur nyjnlf ybbxf
erchyfvir.... Nf n znggre bs snpg, Pbaavr, gurer ner bayl gjb
tbbq-ybbxvat crbcyr va gur ebbz: Znzzn naq lbhefrys...."

"Naq lbh, Cnhy...."

"Lbhe uhfonaq unf n tbbq svther gbb: ur unf na nggenpgvir onpx. V unir
na rlr sbe avpr onpxf. V qba'g yvxr zl bja onpx; naq lrg zl pbng fvgf
jryy, qbrfa'g vg? N qerff-pbng vf n irel gevpxl guvat. Abjnqnlf, gurer
vf uneqyl n gnvybe jub pna phg n tbbq qerff-pbng. Lrf, zl jnvfgpbng vf
irel fzneg: whfg ybbx ng vg. Gur ohggbaf ner fzneg, nera'g gurl? Gurl
ner haphg fnccuverf. Lrf, lbh unir n fzneg yvggyr oebgure.... Pbzr, gnxr
zl nez naq yrg'f jnyx ebhaq gur ebbz. Unir lbh urneq: gurl'er nyy
shevbhf, gur Ehliranref, gur Fnrgmrznf, Xnery naq Pngrnh, orpnhfr gurl
jrer abg nfxrq gb gur svefg cnegl? Gur vqrn jnf gb tvir vg orsber gur
fvtavat bs gur pbagenpg, ohg Bggb'f neeviny pnzr naq hcfrg vg. Ur'f
nabgure snvyher, gung Bggb, jvgu uvf yvggyr gvffhr-cncre jvsr.... Ybbx
ng gubfr Ina Eniraf, Pbaavr. Gurl'er unatvat ba sbe nyy gurl'er jbegu gb
Ina Antury naq Oregun, yrfg gurl fubhyq or qrtenqrq ng orvat frra jvgu
gur Fnrgmrznf.... Gryy zr, Pbaavr: ner lbh tynq gb or onpx? Ner lbh
ernyyl sbaq bs nyy gurfr eryngvbaf?... V qba'g oryvrir V unir gung
snzvyl-nssrpgvba juvpu lbh naq Znzzn unir; naq Oregun; naq Qbevar.
Oregun unf vg va ure bja ubhfr; Qbevar naq Znzzn tb fpnggrevat
xvaqarffrf oebnqpnfg bire nyy gur puvyqera naq tenaqpuvyqera.... V fnl,
Pbaavr, guvf vf jung crbcyr pnyy rawblvat gurzfryirf, orpnhfr gjb bs
gurz ner tbvat gb trg zneevrq. Ohg ybbx nyy ebhaq: gurer'f abg n fbhy
ernyyl rawblvat uvzfrys. Naq gung'f jung Ina Antury naq Oregun fcraq n
pbhcyr bs gubhfnaq thvyqref ba: tvivat gurz fbzr qvaare naq n qnapr naq
yrggvat gurz tnmr ng zl Yhkhel, jvgu Sybbegwr qnapvat ba gbc bs
Znevnaar. Ybbx ng gubfr snprf. Abg bar vf anghenyyl purreshy. Angher,
angher, Pbaavr: gurer'f ab fhpu guvat nf angher nzbat crbcyr yvxr
bhefryirf! Jr unir abg n trfgher, abg n jbeq, abg rira n gubhtug gung vf
angheny. Vg'f nyy cbfr naq uhzoht jvgu rirel bar bs hf; naq abobql vf
gnxra va ol vg. Ernyyl, vg'f n qvfthfgvat ohfvarff, n fbpvrgl yvxr bhef,
jung bar pnyyf tbbq fbpvrgl. Pna'g lbh haqrefgnaq na nanepuvfg ybivat gb
syvat n obzo vagb gur zvqfg bs hf: sbe vafgnapr, ng Hapyr Ehliranre'f
fgbznpu? Ab nanepuvfg yvxrf n fgbznpu: gur fgbznpu vf gur genqrznex bs
gur obhetrbvf.... Abj gurl'er tbvat gb qnapr: ybbx ubj uvqrbhfyl gurl'er
fcvaavat ebhaq gur ebbz. Whfg yvxr cnyfvrq fcneebjf. Jr uhzna orvatf ner
zhpu gbb fbyrza naq urnil gb qnapr jvgu nal tenpr. Ybbx, vg'f nyzbfg
tunfgyl. Guebhtu nyy gung cergrapr ng ryrtnapr naq fznegarff naq qnapvat
naq tnvrgl, lbh pna frr gung bar unf n fgbznpu-npur naq nabgure n
urnq-npur, gung Ina Antury vf guvaxvat bs ubj gurl jrag sbe uvz va gur
Punzore lrfgreqnl naq Nqbycuvar jbaqrevat ubj fur funyy znxr ure
jrqqvat-cnegvrf frrz bayl unys nf tenaq nf Oregun'f. . .."

Fur yrg uvz gnyx naq ur arire raqrq: ur pbhyq tb ba cenggyvat sbe rire.
Uvf zbgure, fvfgref naq avrprf bsgra gbyq uvz gb fgbc, zbirq njnl naq
yrsg uvz va gur zvqfg bs uvf bhgcbhevatf; ohg Pbafgnapr yvxrq uvz, fnj,
vaqrrq, n tbbq qrny bs gehgu va jung ur fnvq, va fcvgr bs nyy uvf
uhzoht. Ur fnj guebhtu gur crbcyr nebhaq uvz jvgu na vafvtug juvpu
fhecevfrq ure naq juvpu fur jnf fgnegyrq gb svaq jnf abg jubyyl
vanpphengr. Vg jnf pregnvayl gehr gung gurfr crbcyr jrer abg fvzcyl
angheny naq zreel. Gurl unq pbzr gurer sebz cbyvgrarff gb Oregun naq Ina
Antury; ohg, va ernyvgl, bar jnf gverq, gur bgure raivbhf....

"Nhagvr," fnvq Rzvyvr, jub jnf jnyxvat ebhaq gur ebbz ba Ina Enira'f
nez, "vs Cnhy bapr trgf ubyq bs lbh, ur'yy arire yrg lbh tb...."

Fur pnyyrq ure lbhatrfg hapyr ol uvf Puevfgvna anzr. Fur jnf ernyyl n
cerggl tvey, gubhtu Cnhy qvq abg frr nal tbbq-ybbxvat crbcyr gurer, naq,
ol gur fvqr bs ure, ure shgher uhfonaq jnf fhpu n cnyr, vafvtavsvpnag
crefba gung crbcyr jbaqrerq jul fur unq npprcgrq uvz. Fur jnf engure
guva, ohg gurer jnf fbzrguvat qnvagl, hapbzzba naq bevtvany nobhg ure va
ure pybhql juvgr sebpx; fur unq n cnve bs punezvat rlrf bs n
fgenatryl-gjvaxyvat tbyq-terl, yvxr na haxabja wrjry; ure unve jnf
erqqvfu, jvgu n tyvag bs tbyq va vg; naq gurer jrer n srj gval serpxyrf
ba gur pyrne-juvgr pbzcyrkvba juvpu bsgra tbrf jvgu gung unve. Fur unq n
cerggl ynhtu, n fbsg ibvpr, n pbnkvat jnl bs orvat avpr naq fnlvat
cyrnfnag guvatf; naq, nobir nyy, fur cbffrffrq na vaangr qvfgvapgvba
naq, nf fur cnffrq, juvgr naq tyrnzvat, fur unq fbzrguvat, bar jbhyq
nyzbfg unir fnvq, bs n irel ornhgvshy nynonfgre beanzrag, be bs n fabjl
nmnyrn va gur fhayvtug: n yhzvabhf snvearff, qnvagl naq genafcneragyl
irvarq jvgu cnyrfg oyhr. Pbafgnapr xarj gung Rzvyvr unq n gnyrag,
fbzrguvat zber guna gur hfhny tveyvfu nppbzcyvfuzrag, sbe cnvagvat, ohg
gung, va ure ohfl yvsr nf n lbhat fbpvrgl-tvey, fur unq arire unq gur
bccbeghavgl gb qrirybc vg. Naq Pbafgnapr jbaqrerq ng Ina Enira, cnyr,
guva, fghggrevat, fgnzzrevat, fcehpr naq lrg njxjneq, jvgu bar fubhyqre
uvture guna gur bgure naq uvf guerr unvef bs n zbhfgnpur gjvfgrq hc
gbjneqf uvf rlrf. Ur jnf ng gur Sbervta Bssvpr naq ur orybatrq gb n
snzvyl jubfr evtvq Qhgpu begubqbkl jnf fubpxrq ol zhpu va gur Ina Ybjrf,
va gur Ina Anturyf naq rfcrpvnyyl va gur Vaqvna ryrzrag bs gur
Ehliranref: arireguryrff, va ivrj bs gur trareny erchgngvba sbe jrnygu
rawblrq ol gur pbybavny frpergnel, gurl unq pbafvqrerq uvf qnhtugre n
fhvgnoyr zngpu sbe gurve fba. Ina Antury naq Oregun jrer znxvat ure n
unaqfbzr nyybjnapr.

Jura Rzvyvr naq Ina Enira cnffrq ba, rkpunatvat pvivyvgvrf jvgu gur
thrfgf, Pbafgnapr rkcerffrq ure fhecevfr gb Cnhy:

"Pna fur ernyyl or sbaq bs uvz?"

"Fur? Abg n ovg bs vg! Gura jul vf fur zneelvat uvz, lbh nfx? Gung'f
whfg gur zlfgrel. Ina Antury naq Oregun ner abg uhfonaq-uhagref, yvxr
Nqbycuvar. Ybhvfr unf unq guerr cebcbfnyf naq ershfrq gurz nyy. Naq jul
Rzvyvrgwr--gung qryvpngr, juvgr yvggyr guvat, jub ernyyl unf fbzrguvat
avpr nobhg ure: fbzrguvat negvfgvp, fbzrguvat qnvagl, fbzrguvat
rkdhvfvgr naq, V fubhyq fnl, nyzbfg fbzrguvat angheny--jul fur npprcgrq
gung jrrql nff, jub chgf ba Trezna jnlf ba gur fgeratgu bs n sbegavtug
va Oreyva, jvgu uvf zbhfgnpur gjvfgrq _k yn Xnvfre_ naq uvf fgvss
zvyvgnel objf, V ernyyl pnaabg gryy lbh. Oregun, jub jnf irel tynq jura
Bggb tbg zneevrq, pevrq jura Rzvyvrgwr npprcgrq guvf punc. Gur sryybj'f
nf fghcvq nf zl sbbg.... Gubfr ner arng fbpxf bs zvar, nera'g gurl?...
Lrf, Pbaavr, jul qb fbzr crbcyr trg zneevrq? Nqbycuvar naq Fnrgmrzn:
jul? V nfx lbh, va Urnira'f anzr, jul? Bggb naq Senaprf: jul?"

Fur sryg gung ur unq vg ba uvf yvcf gb fnl:

"Naq lbh naq Ina qre Jrypxr: jul?"

Ohg ur qvq abg; naq ur ena ba:

"Zneevntr vf n greevoyr guvat, V guvax. Gb cvpx bhg bar nzbat uhaqerqf
naq fnl, 'V'yy zneel lbh, V'yy yvir jvgu lbh, V'yy fyrrc jvgu lbh, V'yy
rng jvgu lbh, V'yy unir puvyqera ol lbh, V'yy tebj byq jvgu lbh, V'yy
qvr jvgu lbh: ner lbh jvyyvat?' Terng Tbq, Pbaavr, ubj vf vg cbffvoyr
gung crbcyr rire trg zneevrq? Vg'f n gbff-hc nyjnlf: V fuhqqre jura V
guvax bs vg!"

"Cnhy, gryy zr: jub ner nyy gurfr crbcyr?"

Fur xarj uneqyl bar bs gur npdhnvagnaprf: fbzr fvkgl crbcyr ybfg nzbat
gur sbegl zrzoref bs gur snzvyl. Guvf jnf gur svefg gvzr gung fur unq
"tbar bhg" ntnva ng gur Unthr; naq, nygubhtu znal bs gur thrfgf unq
nfxrq gb or vagebqhprq gb ure, fur unq abg gnyxrq zhpu, unq sbetbggra
gur anzrf ng bapr. Cnhy, terngyl va uvf ryrzrag, rkcynvarq gb ure jurer
gur crbcyr unq pbzr sebz, gb jung frg gurl orybatrq: crbcyr jub qvq abg
xabj be arire fnj bar nabgure, be ryfr qvq abg obj nygubhtu gurl xarj
bar nabgure, oebhtug gbtrgure ng guvf jrqqvat-cnegl orpnhfr bar snzvyl
xarj gur Ina Anturyf naq gur bgure gur Ina Eniraf. Vg jnf qbhogyrff
orpnhfr bs gurfr sbervta ryrzragf gung gur cnegl jnf fb fgvss, gung gur
pbairefngvba jnf pbafgnagyl synttvat, gung gur crbcyr jub qvq abg qnapr
jnaqrerq nvzyrffyl nebhaq, jngpuvat gur qnapref jvgu n ybbx bs erfvtarq
znegleqbz. Rzvyvrgwr zbirq nobhg nzbat gurz, juvgr, qvncunabhf naq irel
punezvat: jvgu Ina Enira ng ure urryf, fur rkpunatrq n jbeq jvgu rirel
bar. Ina Antury naq Oregun nyfb jrer dhvrgyl ohfl nf ubfg naq ubfgrff,
nf fbpvrgl-crbcyr jub ner hfrq gb gung fbeg bs guvat naq jub tb guebhtu
vg zrpunavpnyyl, ernyyl guvaxvat bs jung gurl jvyy unir gb qb arkg qnl.
Gur zrzoref bs gur snzvyl xrcg ba cbccvat hc nzbat gur zrer
npdhnvagnaprf. Naq, va gur zvqfg bs gurz nyy, gur zbfg svqtrgl jnf
Qbevar: fur jnf irel shffl, nf hfhny, jbexrq urefrys vagb n srire
pbyyrpgvat guvatf sbe gur pbgvyyvba, qvq abg qnapr, ohg whfg gebggrq
nobhg: Cnhy puevfgrarq ure gur pnzry.

Vg jnf fgenatr, creuncf, ohg Pbafgnapr sryg unccl naq pbagragrq ng
Cnhy'f fvqr. Fur unq frra abguvat bs gur fbeg sbe lrnef; naq fur sryg n
pregnva crnpr naq fngvfsnpgvba ng orvat va gur zvqfg bs ure bja
eryngvbaf. Grnef jrer pbafgnagyl pbzvat gb ure rlrf: fur qvq abg xabj
jul. Ng gur svefg Fhaqnl-riravatf ng Znzzn'f, fur unq abg sryg guvf
snzvyl-nssrpgvba fb vagrafryl, creuncf orpnhfr fur jnf fgvyy gbb gvzvq.
Bu, ubj unq fur rire znantrq gb yvir guebhtu gubfr sbhegrra ybaryl lrnef
ng Oehffryf! Sbe lrnef fur unq sryg gur qryvtug bs ybir, flzcngul naq
sevraqfuvc bayl sbe ure puvyq; naq abj fur sryg vg sbe nyy bs gurz.
Guebhtu ure gurer cnffrq bapr zber gung srryvat juvpu jnf fb fgebat va
Znzzn: na vajneq tybj juvpu fur unq abg xabja sbe lrnef, n tbbq,
pbzsbegnoyr srryvat gung fur pbhyq abj tebj byq, gung uraprsbegu fur
pbhyq qribgr urefrys gb ure puvyq, va gur snzvyvne ngzbfcurer bs ubzr
naq qbzrfgvpvgl. Naq fur qvq abg abgvpr, qvq abg fhfcrpg gung gur snzvyl
naq gur npdhnvagnaprf jrer fgrnyguvyl rknzvavat ure, whqtvat ure naq
pbaqrzavat ure.

"Fur'f n snfg jbzna," fnvq Zef. Ina Enira, Rzvyvr'f shgher
zbgure-va-ynj, gb Zef. Sevrfrfgrvwa. "Vg'f n terng gevny sbe gur Ina
Anturyf gb unir guvf fvfgre gheavat hc sebz Oehffryf."

"Nsgre sbhegrra lrnef," fnvq gur byq ynql, funecyl, rntre sbe arjf, sbe
fpnaqny, "nsgre sbhegrra lrnef, gb tvir bppnfvba sbe ebbgvat hc nyy
gubfr byq zrzbevrf!"

Naq Zef. Sevrfrfgrvwa jnf qryvtugrq gung Pbafgnapr unq qbar fb.

"Fur xvyyrq ure sngure."

"V xarj Qr Fgnssrynre. Ab bar rire unq n jbeq gb fnl ntnvafg uvz."

"Qhevat nyy gubfr lrnef, ure uhfonaq'f crbcyr ershfrq gb xabj ure."

"V urne gung fur vf vagevthvat yvxr nalguvat gb tb qbja gb gurz abj."

"Gur puvyq vf abg Ina qre Jrypxr'f."

"Ab, uvf sngure jnf na Vgnyvna."

"Fur'f ernyyl n zbfg vzcebcre crefba."

"Znevr'f ure zbgure, nsgre nyy: bar pna'g oynzr _ure_."

"Ohg gur snzvyl...."

"Bhtug gb unir fgbccrq ure...."

"Sebz pbzvat gb gur Unthr."

"Gung'f jung V guvax, zriebhj."

"Lrf, fb qb V."

"Fur'f yvivat ba ure uhfonaq'f crbcyr."

"Jryy, gur Ina Ybjrf nyy tbg fbzrguvat sebz gur sngure, lbh xabj."

"Vg jnfa'g zhpu."

"Ab, abg zhpu."

"Vg'f n irel haunccl zneevntr."

"Lrf; naq gur obl vf fubpxvatyl oebhtug hc."

"Gurl yrg uvz qb nf ur yvxrf."

"Whfg guvax, zriebhj: _gur obl gbbx gur ubhfr sbe gurz!_"

"Lbh qba'g zrna vg!"

"Lrf, ernyyl!"

"Jung n fgngr bs nssnvef: vg'f nyy fb vzzbeny!"

"Jung qvq fur pbzr gb gur Unthr sbe?"

"Fur jnf oberq va Oehffryf. Naq fur jnagf gb guehfg urefrys sbejneq
urer, ng Pbheg."

"Fb V urneq."

"Lrf, gung'f fb. Byq pbaarpgvbaf, lbh frr: gur Ina Anturyf naq fb ba.
Fur jnagf gb tb gb Pbheg."

"Bu, ohg gur Ina Anturyf jvyy gnxr tbbq pner gung fur qbrfa'g."

"Ng yrnfg, gurl jvyy vs gurl'er jvfr."

"Jung na rknzcyr sbe gur tveyf, gung nhag bs gurvef!"

"Lbh xabj, Qr Fgnssrynre sbhaq ure va Ina qre Jrypxr'f nezf."

Gur gjb byq ynqvrf juvfcrerq:

"Ab!"

"Lrf, ernyyl!..."

"Ur'f n ybj sryybj, gbb."

"Lrf, gurer'f n jbzna va Oehffryf."

"Vs gurl unq bayl fgnlrq gurer!"

"Ubj irel fryrpg Nhag Pbafgnapr vf gb-avtug," fnvq Sybbegwr gb
Qvwxreubs.

"Fur'f orra fvggvat jvgu Cnhy gur jubyr riravat," ur nafjrerq.

"Bs pbhefr, ab bar vf tbbq rabhtu sbe ure!"

"Ab. Jura lbh'ir orra gur jvsr bs n qvcybzngvfg...."

"Naq nsgrejneqf Onebarff ina qre Jrypxr...."

"Jung qvq gurl pbzr gb gur Unthr sbe, rknpgyl?"

"Znzzn guvaxf, orpnhfr fur vf nsenvq gung, jura Tenaqznzzn, jub qbrfa'g
ybbx sne nurnq, qvrf...."

"Jryy, jung gura?"

"Jryy, gung fur jba'g trg ure shyy evtugf."

"Bu, abafrafr!"

"V gryy lbh, fur qbrfa'g gehfg hf."

"Ohg, fheryl gurer'f n jvyy; naq, va nal pnfr, gur ynj ..."

"Lrf, ohg fur qbrfa'g xabj gung, ol Qhgpu ynj, nyy gur puvyqera funer
naq funer nyvxr. Naq, gb znxr fher bs jung fur'f gb trg, fur jnagf gb or
ba gur fcbg jura Tenaqznzzn qvrf. Gurl bjr n urnc bs zbarl."

"Naq qbrf ur qb abguvat sbe n yvivat?"

"Ab. Ur hfrq gb fryy jvar ng Oehffryf."

"Avpr crbcyr, gubfr eryngvbaf bs lbhef, gubhtu gurl ner onebaf naq
qvcybzngvfgf!"

"Bu, jr qba'g ybbx hcba gurz nf eryngvbaf! Znzzn fnvq fb qvfgvapgyl."

"Naq fb," fnvq Ze. Ina Enira gb Ina Antury naq Ina Fnrgmrzn, "lbh guvax
gurl pnzr gb yvir urer zreryl ..."

"Orpnhfr gurl jrer srryvat irel ybaryl va Oehffryf."

"Ohg gur snzvyl...?"

"Jrer ntnvafg vg. V zlfrys qvfphffrq jvgu Znzzn ina Ybjr jurgure vs
jbhyqa'g or orggre gb nqivfr gurz abg gb ..."

"Naq?..."

"Jryy, Znzzn vf gur zbgure, lbh frr. Jura nyy vf fnvq, Pbafgnapr vf ure
qnhtugre. Jr nyy bs hf tnir jnl. Naq gura vg vf fb irel ybat ntb
gung...."

"V zhfg fnl," fnvq Ze. Ina Enira, rzcunfvmvat uvf jbeqf, "gung vg jnf
irel _trarebhf_ bs lbh nyy."

"Lrf, Ina Antury gbbx n irel trarebhf ivrj bs gur pnfr," fnvq Ina
Fnrgmrzn, jub ybbxrq hc terngyl gb uvf oebgure-va-ynj--n zvavfgre, na
rkpryyrapl--synggrevat uvz, xrrcvat ba sevraqyl grezf jvgu uvz.

"Naq jr nyy qvq, nyy bs hf, nf Ina Antury gubhtug evtug."

"Fgvyy, bar arire xabjf," fnvq Ze. Ina Enira, gubhtugshyyl. "Ohg,
sbetvir zr: fur vf lbhe fvfgre-va-ynj; naq vg vf _irel_ trarebhf, _zbfg_
trarebhf bs lbh...."

Gjb nhagf bs Nqryvar'f fgbccrq gur snve-unverq yvggyr zbgure:

"Nqryvragwr!"

"Lrf, Nhagvr?"

"Gung arj fvfgre bs lbhef: qb lbh yvxr ure?"

"Vf fur avpr?"

"Lrf, Nhagvr, ernyyl irel avpr."

"Ohg fur'f orra na vzcebcre jbzna."

"Bu, Nhagvr!"

"Lrf, lrf, lrf, zl tvey, jr xabj nyy nobhg vg; lbh or pnershy."

"Naq qba'g orpbzr unaq-va-tybir gbb dhvpxyl."

"Lbh'er fb gubhtugyrff, Nqryvragwr."

"Naq Treevg vf fb tbbq-angherq."

"Gnxr pner, obgu bs lbh!"

"N jbzna yvxr gung pna qb uvz unez va uvf pnerre."

"Bu, pbzr, Nhagvr! Vs gur Ina Anturyf erprvir gurz!"

"Lrf, ohg gur Ina Anturyf qvfnccebir bs gurz fgebatyl."

"Fgvyy, fur'f gurve fvfgre."

"Rirelobql'f gnyxvat nobhg gurz. Crbcyr fnl...."

"Jung?"

"Gung Pbafgnapr vf abg ... jryy, gung fur'f abg ure sngure'f puvyq!"

"Ohg Nhagvr, gung'f n sevtugshy guvat gb fnl!"

"Orpnhfr gur Ina Ybjrf jrer nyjnlf fb erfcrpgnoyr, fur pna'g...."

"Ab, fur pna'g or n qnhtugre bs...."

"Bs byq Ina Ybjr'f."

"V fnl, Nhagvr, guvf vf fpheevybhf!"

"Nqryvragwr!"

"Nhagvr, V jba'g yvfgra gb nabgure jbeq!"

Pbhfvaf bs gur Ina Fnrgmrznf', gnyxvat jvgu gur VWxfgenf, eryngvbaf bs
Pngrnh'f:

"Cbbe qrne Nqbycuvar!"

"Fur'f shevbhf!"

"Jung ng?"

"Bu, nyy fbegf bs guvatf! Svefg, orpnhfr gur Ina Anturyf tnir n cnegl ng
juvpu gur jubyr snzvyl jrer vtaberq."

"Bu, jryy, gung pregnvayl jnf engure...."

"Gura, orpnhfr Nqbycuvar unf ab ebbz va ure ubhfr gb tvir n cnegl ng
juvpu fur jbhyq vtaber gur snzvyl va ure ghea."

"Naq orpnhfr bs gur frng juvpu fur jnf tvira ng qvaare guvf riravat."

"Naq orpnhfr bs Rzvyvrgwr'f gjb jvgarffrf: ure Hapyr Ina Antury, gur
Dhrra'f Pbzzvffnel va Birevwffry, naq Xnery ina Ybjr, jurernf fur fnlf
gung Ina Fnrgmrzn vf byqre guna Xnery naq gurersber...."

"Naq nyfb orpnhfr bs Rzvyvrgwr'f sebpx, orpnhfr gung syvzfl juvgr guvat
pnzr sebz Oehffryf naq pbfg guerr uhaqerq senapf."

"Jung n urnc Ina Antury zhfg or fcraqvat ba gur jrqqvat!"

"Ab, vg'f Oregun: vg'f gur Ina Ybjrf jub nyjnlf guebj zbarl nobhg."

"Rknpgyl, gung'f jung V fnl: Nqbycuvar qbrf gur fnzr guvat, whfg nf
gubhtu fur pbhyq nssbeq vg."

"Gung'f orpnhfr nyy bs gubfr Ina Ybjrf ner rngra hc jvgu cevqr naq
pbaprvg."

"Lrf, fvapr gur sngure orpnzr tbireabe-trareny, gurl unir nyjnlf npgrq
yvxr zrtnybznavnpf."

"Gur byq ynql vf n erthyne crnpbpx."

"Naq Oregun, jvgu ure fzneg npdhnvagnaprf!"

"Naq gura gung Zef. ina qre Jrypxr: fur'f tbg n avpr cnfg gb ybbx onpx
hcba! Naq fur orunirf nf gubhtu fur jrer gur Dhrra!"

"Gurl'er dhvgr na beqvanel snzvyl, gur Ina Ybjrf."

"Lrf, gurl'er abobqvrf: gur tenaqsngure jnf n tebpre."

"Ab!"

"Lrf, V nffher lbh!"

"Naq gung znq Reafg, jub'f nyjnlf fghqlvat gur snzvyl-cncref gb qvfpbire
vs gurl ner abg bs aboyr qrfprag!"

"Bu, ur'f znq, vs lbh yvxr!"

"Va snpg, gurl'er nyy n yvggyr ovg znq."

"Lrf, gurer'f n fgenva bs vg va nyy bs gurz."

"N fgenva? Fbzrguvat zber guna n fgenva _V_ pnyy vg. Naq vg'f pbagvahrq
va gur Ina Anturyf."

"Nqbycuvar'f gur orfg bs gur ybg."

"Fur'f n zrtnybznavnp, gubhtu, sbe nyy gung."

"V fnl, guvf Zef. ina qre Jrypxr: jung unf fur pbzr urer sbe?"

"Jryy, fur guvaxf gur jubyr guvat unf oybja bire. Vg jnf svsgrra lrnef
ntb, lbh frr. Naq fur'f zneevrq gb Ina qre Jrypxr."

"Abg nppbeqvat gb Qhgpu ynj."

"Ab, ohg fur pna trg zneevrq ntnva."

"Lrf, ohg gurl ner abg, gurl ner _abg_ zneevrq nppbeqvat gb Qhgpu ynj."

"Jryy, va gung pnfr, _V_ qba'g ybbx hcba gurz nf zneevrq ng nyy!"

"Abg nppbeqvat gb Qhgpu...."

"Ab, ohg...."

"Lrf...."

"Ab...."

"Lrf...."

Gur cnegl raqrq naq gur thrfgf qrcnegrq.




PUNCGRE KIV


Arkg qnl, Rzvyvr naq Znevnaar ina Antury jrer uneq ng jbex va gurve
obhqbve. Gurl funerq n fvggvat-ebbz orgjrra gurz; Ybhvfr, gur ryqrfg
fvfgre, unq bar gb urefrys. Rzvyvr jnf gnxvat qbja jngre-pbybhef sebz
gur jnyy:

"Gur ebbz jnf fb oevtug naq purreshy!" fur fnvq, fbsgyl, naq chg gur
qenjvatf gbtrgure.

Znevnaar fhqqrayl ohefg vagb fbof. Gur ebbz jnf nyy gbcfl-gheil, orpnhfr
Rzvyvr jnf pbyyrpgvat ure orybatvatf, naq gur jnyy-cncre abj fubjrq va
serfu, hasnqrq erpgnathyne cngpurf.

"Jung ba rnegu qb lbh jnag gb zneel gung ubeevq zna sbe!" pevrq
Znevnaar, fboovat. "Jr jrer fb unccl, gur gjb bs hf; jr jrer nyjnlf
gbtrgure. Jvgu lbh zneevrq, V funyy unir ab bar; naq V ungr gur vqrn bs
neenatvat zl ebbz nyy bire ntnva."

Rzvyvr frrzrq gb or fgnevat oynaxyl vagb n oynax shgher:

"Bu, pbzr, Znevnaar: V funyy fgvyy or ng gur Unthr!"

"Ab, V'ir ybfg lbh!" fboorq Znevnaar, cnffvbangryl. "Jung qvq lbh frr va
gung zna, jung _qvq_ lbh frr va uvz?" Fur rzoenprq ure fvfgre ivbyragyl
naq vafvfgrq. "Gryy zr, gryy zr: jung qvq lbh frr va gung zna?"

"Va Rqhneq? V ybir uvz."

"Bu?" fnvq Znevnaar. "Vf gung nyy vg zrnaf, ybivat n zna? Vf gung ybir?"

N znvq ragrerq:

"Serhyr, gurer'f n obk pbzr sebz Oehffryf, jvgu lbhe qerffrf. Zriebhj
jnagf gb xabj vs vg pna or oebhtug hc ng bapr, fb nf abg gb znxr n
yvggre qbjafgnvef."

"Lrf, gurl pna oevat vg hc."

Birejebhtug, Znevnaar unq fhax vagb n punve naq pybfrq ure rlrf. Fur jnf
va n fgngr bs areibhf rkpvgrzrag, juvyr Rzvyvr, jvgu fgenatr pnyzarff,
jnf pbyyrpgvat obkrf, cbegenvgf, beanzragf.

"Rzvyvr," fnvq Znevnaar, erfvtarqyl, "jung n zrff lbh'er znxvat!"

"Arire zvaq, V'z gnxvat vg nyy njnl."

"Lrf, gung'f whfg vg: rirelguvat'f tbvat njnl, rirelguvat'f tbvat njnl!"

"Znevnaar, qb pbageby lbhefrys."

Gjb znvqf pnzr qenttvat nybat n cnpxvat-pnfr.

"Jurer funyy jr chg vg, serhyr?"

"Yrnir vg gurer, va gur cnffntr."

Oregun pnzr hcfgnvef:

"Hacnpx vg ng bapr, Rzvyvr, be gur guvatf jvyy pernfr."

"Qb lbh guvax vg'f zl jrqqvat-qerff?"

"V rkcrpg fb."

"Gura vg pna tb ba gur orq."

"Ab, vg unq orggre or uhat va gur jneqebor."

Gur freinagf bcrarq gur cnpxvat-pnfr naq cebqhprq pneqobneq obkrf. N
guveq znvq ragrerq:

"N ovyy sebz Ina qre Ynna'f, zriebhj."

"Znevnaar, urer'f zl xrl-onfxrg; whfg cnl vg, jvyy lbh? Vg'f fvkgl-fvk
thvyqref."

Gur gjb Yrvqra oblf pnzr hcfgnvef:

"Wbyyl ornfgyl, V pnyy vg," fnvq Senaf. "Lbh arire svaq nal bar va gur
qenjvat-ebbz, jura lbh pbzr ubzr. Rvgure vg'f n cnegl, be ryfr
rirelguvat'f hcfvqr qbja."

"Oyrff zl fbhy, tveyf," fnvq Uraev, "ybbx ng gur fgngr lbhe ebbz'f va!"

"V fnl, funyy V uryc lbh hacnpx?"

"Zriebhj, V pna'g haqrefgnaq jung gur lbhat zriebhj'f _onobr_[10]
fnlf...."

"_Znh ncn_,[11] Nyvzn?"

"_Awbawn zbrqn_[12] nfxf vs _awbawn orfne_[13] jbhyq zvaq pbzvat
hcfgnvef," fnvq gur _onobr_, va Znynl.

"Lrf, V'yy pbzr ng bapr."

"Jung ner lbh nyy qbvat urer?" nfxrq Znevrgwr, ng gur qbbe. "Znzzn, unf
Rzvyvr'f qerff pbzr? Znl V frr?"

"Vs lbh cyrnfr, zriebhj, gur byq zriebhj naq Zef. ina qre Jrypxr ner
qbjafgnvef.... Funyy V nfx gurz gb jnvg va gur qenjvat-ebbz?"

"Tenaal!" fubhgrq Senaf bire gur onyhfgref.

"Unys n zbzrag!" fnvq Uraev, ehfuvat qbja gur fgnvef. "V'yy srgpu Tenaal
naq Nhagvr."

Znevnaar ortna fboovat ntnva:

"Zl qrne puvyq, jung'f gur znggre abj?" rkpynvzrq Oregun.

"V'z tbvat znq!" pevrq Znevnaar.

Rzvyvr xvffrq ure.

Byq Zef. ina Ybjr pnzr fybjyl hc gur fgnvef, tnyynagyl rfpbegrq ol ure
tenaqfba, naq jnf zrg ba gur ynaqvat ol ure bgure tenaqfba.

"Tenaal, Rzvyvr'f jrqqvat-qerff unf pbzr naq fur'f tbvat gb gel vg ba!"
pevrq Znevrgwr, rkpvgrqyl.

"Nz V va gur jnl?" nfxrq Pbafgnapr.

"Ab, bs pbhefr abg, Pbafgnapr," fnvq Oregun.

"Pbzr va."

Nyy gur qbbef bs gur obhqbve naq orqebbz jrer bcra. Ybhvfr pnzr va--fur
hfhnyyl xrcg bhg bs gur jnl ng ohfl gvzrf--naq, gbtrgure jvgu Oregun naq
gur ynql'f znvq, fubbx bhg gur juvgr qerff, juvpu fgenvtugjnl svyyrq gur
jubyr ebbz jvgu n fabjl juvgrarff....

"Jung vf vg, _onobr_?" nfxrq Zef. ina Ybjr. "_Awbawn zbrqn_ nfxf vs
_awbawn orfne_ jbhyq pbzr hcfgnvef," ercrngrq gur _onobr_. "Ohg creuncf
vs gur _xnaqwrat awbawn orfne_[14] pbhyq pbzr...." fur nqqrq, cvyvat ba
gur gvgyrf bhg bs erfcrpg sbe gur byq ynql, jub unq bapr orra gur
_awbawn orfne Obtbe_.[15]

"Gura V'yy tb hc," fnvq gur byq ynql. "Pbafgnapr, jvyy lbh pbzr gbb?..."

Irel fybjyl, n yvggyr gverq nsgre gur fgnvef, gur byq ynql pyvzorq hc,
jvgu ure unaq ba gur onyhfgre-envy. Pbafgnapr sbyybjrq ure. Ba gur gbc
sybbe, gurer jnf n fhqqra qenhtug; qbbef fynzzrq.

"_Onobr_.... Vf gurer n jvaqbj bcra?"

Gur _onobr_ ena nobhg fghcvqyl, hasnzvyvne nf lrg jvgu Qhgpu qbbef naq
jvaqbjf.

Va n fvggvat-ebbz, gurl sbhaq Senaprf, Bggb'f jvsr, jvgu gur gjb
puvyqera.

"Ohg, Senaprf, lbh'ir tbg n jvaqbj bcra!"

"Bu, Tenaqznzzn, V jnf fhssbpngvat!"

"_Onobr_, fuhg gur jvaqbj ng bapr! Senaprf, ubj pbhyq lbh!"

"V pna'g, _xnaqwrat_!" fvturq gur _onobr_, cerffvat jvgu gur fgeratgu bs
n tang ba gur onef bs gur fbyvq Qhgpu jvaqbj.

Pbafgnapr urycrq ure, chfurq qbja gur jvaqbj.

"Guvf vf Nhag Pbafgnapr, jub unf pbzr gb znxr lbhe npdhnvagnapr,
Senaprf. Ohg Senaprf, lbh'er fgvyy va lbhe _fnebat_ naq _xnonnv_!"[16]

"Vfa'g gung nyybjrq, Tenaal? Ubj q'lr qb, Nhag?"

"Puvyq, ubj Vaqvna lbh'ir orpbzr va gurfr srj lrnef!" pevrq gur byq
ynql, natevre guna Pbafgnapr erzrzorerq rire frrvat ure. "Ubj vf vg
cbffvoyr, ubj vf vg cbffvoyr! Unir lbh sbetbggra Ubyynaq? Va Znepu, jvgu
gur jvaqbj bcra, va n grnevat qenhtug, jvgu obgu gur puvyqera, lbh va
_fnebat_ naq _xnonnv_ naq Uhvt va n yvggyr fuveg! Qb lbh jnag gb xvyy
lbhefrys naq gur puvyqera? _Onobr_, chg n _onnqwr_ ba _fvawb_![17]
Senaprf, Senaprf, V fcrag lrnef naq lrnef va Vaqvn, ohg rira va Vaqvn V
jnf arneyl nyjnlf qerffrq; naq, jura V pnzr onpx gb Ubyynaq, V unq abg
sbetbggra Ubyynaq va gur jnl va juvpu lbh, n cheryl Qhgpu tvey, unir
sbetbggra vg va gurfr srj lrnef!"

Gur byq jbzna unq gnxra gur puvyq ba ure bja ync naq jnf qerffvat vg
zber jnezyl.

"Tenaqznzzn, ubj lbh'er tehzoyvat.... Vg'q or orggre vs lbh gbyq pbbx gb
znxr Bggryvragwr'f _obrobre_[18] cebcreyl: gur puvyq pna'g rng gung
fgnepu gurl tvir ure. Naq fur gbyq _onobr_ gung fur unq ab gvzr gb pbbx
vg qvssreragyl. Gur jubyr ubhfr unf tbar znq orpnhfr Rzvyvr vf trggvat
zneevrq. Jr ernyyl pna'g fgnl urer, ba gur gbc sybbe ng Cncn naq
Znzzn'f."

"Senaprf, qerff lbhefrys svefg, be V funyy trg ernyyl natel."

"_Nyynu_, Tenaqznzzn!" pevrq Senaprf, veevgnoyl; ohg, jura Pbafgnapr
tnir ure gur fnzr nqivpr, fur syhat n jenccre bire ure _fnebat_ naq
_xnonnv_ naq erznvarq yvxr gung, jvgu ure oner srrg va fyvccref.

"Ab jbaqre lbh'er nyjnlf vyy!" tehzoyrq Tenaqznzzn, fgvyy ohflvat
urefrys jvgu gur puvyq.

"Bu, Nhag Pbafgnapr, V jbaqre vs lbh jbhyq eha qbja gb gur xvgpura naq
gryy pbbx gung Bggryvragwr pna'g unir ure _obrobre_ znqr yvxr gung?"

"Zl qrne Senaprf," ynhturq Pbafgnapr, "gur pbbx unf arire frra zr, abe V
ure: naq, vs V jrag gb ure xvgpura naq gnyxrq nobhg gur _obrobre_, fur
jbhyq bayl ghea zr bhg."

"Jung n pbhagel gb yvir va, Ubyynaq!" pevrq Senaprf. "Zl puvyq vf
fgneivat sbe sbbq!"

"V'yy tb qbja gb Znzzn, vs lbh yvxr...."

"Lrf, qb, jbhyq lbh?"

Pbafgnapr jrag qbjafgnvef. Va gur obhqbve, Rzvyvr, va ure jrqqvat-qerff,
jnf fgnaqvat va sebag bs n ybat tynff. Gur urnil juvgr fngva pehfurq
ure, ybbxrq uneq naq pehry hcba ure, abj gung ure unve jnf abg qbar naq
fur gverq naq cnyr.

"Gur obqvpr qbrfa'g svg. Vg jvyy fvzcyl unir gb tb onpx gb Oehffryf,"
fnvq Oregun.

"Vg'f fvpxravat!" fnvq Rzvyvr; naq gur jbeq fbhaqrq nyzbfg yvxr n phefr
orgjrra ure yvcf.

"Znevnaar, jvyy lbh jevgr gur yrggre? V'yy cva gur qerff hc. Be ab, V
unq orggre jevgr zlfrys. Pbafgnapr, qb ybbx!"

"Gurer'f n pernfr urer," fnvq Pbafgnapr, "ohg vg'f abg irel onq. Qnera'g
lbh unir vg nygrerq urer?"

"Hcba zl jbeq, V'z cnlvat...." Oregun ortna, ohg fur purpxrq urefrys naq
qvq abg fnl ubj zhpu. "Naq gb unir vg svg onqyl vagb gur onetnva!"

"Oregun, Senaprf nfxrq zr gb pbzr naq frr lbh."

"Jung nobhg?"

"Gurer'f fbzr gebhoyr nobhg Bggryvragwr'f _obrobre_."

"V'yy tb hc," fnvq Oregun, jbea-bhg gubhtu fur jnf.

Gur znvq, ubyqvat hc Rzvyvr'f genva, sbyybjrq ure vagb gur orqebbz;
Znevnaar naq Pbafgnapr erznvarq oruvaq nybar. Pbafgnapr fnj gung
Znevnaar jnf pelvat.

"Jung vf vg, qrne?"

"Bu, Nhagvr!"

"Jung vf vg?"

"Vf yvsr jbegu nyy guvf obgure naq shff? Trggvat zneevrq, zbivat lbhe
guvatf, qnapvat, tvivat qvaaref naq cnegvrf, beqrevat qerffrf gung qba'g
svg naq pbfg uhaqerqf, orvat vyy, univat onovrf, rngvat _obrobre_:
Nhagvr, vf vg ernyyl nyy jbegu juvyr?"

"Jul, Znevnaar, V zvtug or yvfgravat gb Cnhy!"

"Bu, ab, V'z abg fb rybdhrag nf Cnhy! Ohg V'z fhssbpngvat jvgu vg nyy,
V'z fgvsyvat naq V'z greevoyl, greevoyl, greevoyl haunccl!"

"Znevnaar!"

Gur lbhat tvey fhqqrayl ohefg vagb areibhf fbof naq guerj urefrys vagb
Pbafgnapr' nezf. Nebhaq ure, gur ebbz jnf bar fprar bs pbashfvba; gur
qbbef jrer nyy bcra.

"Znevnaar, yrg zr fuhg gur qbbef."

"Ab, Nhagvr, qba'g zvaq nobhg gung, ohg fgnl jvgu zr, qb! Vg'f zber guna
V pna fgnaq, zber guna V pna fgnaq! V'z fb gverq bs guvf ehfu, bs guvf
haarprffnel rkpvgrzrag, bs gur cnegl lrfgreqnl, bs gubfr
gnoyrnhk-ivinagf, bs Sybbegwr'f wrnybhfl, bs Nhag Nqbycuvar'f
fcvgrshyarff, V nz gverq, gverq, gverq bs rirelguvat. V pna'g fgnaq vg,
Nhagvr. V'z fb sbaq bs Rzvyvr, jr'ir nyjnlf orra gbtrgure, vg jnf fb
avpr, fb wbyyl; naq abj, nyy ng bapr, fur'f trggvat zneevrq gb gung
ungrshy zna; naq fur'f gnxvat njnl ure fxrgpurf; naq vg'f nyy bire; naq
abj rirelguvat'f tbar, rirelguvat'f tbar! Naq Uraev gbb vf fb hcfrg
nobhg vg: ur qbgrf ba Rzvyvr, whfg nf V qb, naq ur pna'g haqrefgnaq
rvgure jung fur'f qbvat vg sbe. Fur'f irel unccl urer; Cncn naq Znzzn
naq nyy gur erfg ner sbaq bs ure; jr unq fhpu n avpr yvsr, rira vs vg
jnf n ovg bireqbar naq V qba'g pner sbe gung rireynfgvat tbvat bhg; ohg
abj vg'f nyy bire, nyy bire! V fng pelvat jvgu Uraev lrfgreqnl; naq ng
gur cnegl jr unq gb or tnl; naq rirel bar gubhtug gung ur jnf tnl, gur
tnl haqretenqhngr; naq gur cbbe obl jnf zvfrenoyr; naq lrfgreqnl V unq
gb nccrne va gung gnoyrnh; naq Sybbegwr jnf fb ubeevq naq fcvgrshy; naq
Uraev naq Senaf unq n qvnybthr gb qb; naq gur cbbe obl pbhyqa'g fcrnx
uvf jbeqf; naq V nfx lbh, Nhagvr, jul nyy guvf haunccvarff, jura jr jrer
fb unccl gbtrgure?"

Fur pyrapurq ure svfgf naq, guebhtu ure fbof, fhqqrayl ortna gb ynhtu
nybhq:

"Bu, Nhagvr!... Un, un!... Bu, Nhagvr!... Qba'g zvaq jung V fnl! V nz
znq, V nz znq, ohg vg'f gurl jub ner qevivat zr znq: Znzzn, gur oblf,
gur freinagf, gur _onobr_, Senaprf naq gur puvyqera! Vg'f bar terng
zreel-tb-ebhaq! Un, un!... Qvq lbh rire frr fhpu na rireynfgvat ehfu nf
jr unir va guvf ubhfr?"

Fur jnf abj fboovat naq ynhtuvat gbtrgure; naq fhqqrayl fur erzrzorerq
gung fur unq yrg urefrys tb gbb zhpu jvgu n fgenatr nhag naq gung Znzzn
qvq abg yvxr gurfr fcbagnarbhf pbasvqraprf gb fgenatref; naq, orpnhfr
fur jnagrq gb erpbire urefrys, fur fhqqrayl orpnzr engure qvtavsvrq naq
nfxrq:

"Qvq lbh rawbl lbhefrys snveyl lrfgreqnl, Nhag Pbafgnapr?"

"Lrf, Znevnaar, V gubhtug vg irel avpr gb or onpx nzbat lbh nyy."

"Qba'g lbh yvxr Oehffryf orggre guna gur Unthr?"

"Vg jnf fb dhvrg sbe hf, yngryl, va Oehffryf."

"Ebzr, V fubhyq yvxr gb frr Ebzr."

"Lrf, Ebzr vf ornhgvshy."

Gurl jrer abj fvyrag naq gurl obgu sryg gung guvatf bs gur cnfg cnegrq
gurz, gur arj, fgenatr nhag, jub unq pbzr onpx sebz gur cnfg, naq gur
lbhat tvey, jub jnf fhqqrayl nsenvq bs vg.

Naq, jvgubhg haqrefgnaqvat jul, Znevnaar fvturq, va gur zvqfg bs guvf
fuevaxvat srne:

"Bu, sbe n wbl, n erny wbl gung jbhyq svyy zr ragveryl! Ab zber qvaaref
naq qerffrf naq rkpvgrzrag nobhg abguvat, ohg n erny wbl, n terng wbl!"

Fur sryg fb fgenatr, fb tvqql, ohg fur fgvyy sbhaq fgeratgu gb fnl:

"Vg'f n cvgl gung lbh jrer njnl sebz hf fb ybat. Jr fubhyq nyjnlf unir
yvxrq lbh naq Hapyr irel zhpu, ohg abj lbh ner obgu fb fgenatr fgvyy, gb
nyy bs hf."

"Lrf," ercyvrq Pbafgnapr, irel jrnevyl.

Naq fur qvq abg haqrefgnaq jul fur fhqqrayl sryg irel fnq, nf gubhtu,
nsgre nyy, sbe znavsbyq ernfbaf, fur unq abg qbar jryy gb pbzr onpx,
gubhtu gurer unq orra gung uhatre sbe ure bja crbcyr, ure bja xvgu naq
xva....

"N wbl, n terng wbl!" Znevnaar ntnva fvturq, fbsgyl.

Naq fur cerffrq ure unaqf gb ure oernfg, nf gubhtu qvfgerffrq ol ure
fgenatr ybatvat....


[10] Znvq, ahefr.

[11] Jung vf vg?

[12] Gur lbhat zvfgerff, nf jub fubhyq fnl, gur lbhat zrz-fnuvo.

[13] Gur terng zvfgerff, be terng zrz-fnuvo, hfrq bs gur jvirf bs
erfvqragf naq bgure uvtu bssvpvnyf.

[14] Gur byq terng zrz-fnuvo.

[15] Gur tbireabe-trareny'f zrz-fnuvo. Obtbe vf gur angvir anzr bs
Ohvgrambet, va Wnin, juvpu pbagnvaf gur tbireabe-trareny'f cnynpr.

[16] Gur angvir fxveg, be tnezrag jbhaq gvtugyl ebhaq gur ybvaf, naq
fyrrirq wnpxrg, sbezvat n pbfghzr juvpu vf jbea cerggl trarenyyl nf na
vaqbbe qerff ol Rhebcrna ynqvrf va Wnin.

[17] Gur lbhat tragyrzna.

[18] Oebgu, cnc.




PUNCGRE KIVV


Gur sheavgher neevirq sebz Oehffryf; naq Pbafgnapr sbhaq vg qryvtugshy
gb neenatr ure ubhfr arne gur Jbbqf. Fur unq arire rkcrpgrq gb or fb
unccl, whfg orpnhfr fur jnf onpx va ure bja pbhagel naq nzbat ure
snzvyl-pvepyr. Vg jnf Ncevy, ohg vg jnf fgvyy jvagre: n puvyy, qnzc
jvagre, juvpu frrzrq arire gb unir qbar envavat; nobir gur Jbbqf naq gur
Xrexubsynna, gur urnil pybhqf jrer sbe rire tngurevat, fnvyvat hc nf
gubhtu sebz n zlfgrevbhf pybhq-ernyz, fcernqvat gur fbeebjshy gvagf bs
gur ybjynaq fxvrf bire gur ngzbfcurer, unatvat rireynfgvatyl yvxr n
ornhgvshy, yrnqra-uhrq zrynapubyl bs yvynp terl, fbzrgvzrf jvgu gur
pbccrel tybj bs n yvtug gung nyjnlf tyrnzrq irel snvagyl naq arire
pbadhrerq, ohg whfg fubar yvxr pbccre va orgjrra gur terl; naq gur
raqyrff enva pynggrerq qbja, gur raqyrff jvaq ubjyrq guebhtu gur oner
gerrf, gur raqyrff pybhqf chfurq naq qebir nybat, obear ba gur fgbezl
fdhnyyf, nf gubhtu gurer jrer na raqyrff pbzong bireurnq, n pybhq-yvsr
bs juvpu zra orybj xarj abguvat. Vg jnf n zrynapubyl bs qnl nsgre qnl;
naq lrg, fgenatryl rabhtu, vg fgveerq Pbafgnapr tengrshyyl: fur fzvyrq
ng gur pybhqf, gur pybhqf bs yvynp fgernxrq jvgu tybjvat pbccre nf
gubhtu n qvfgnag pbasyntengvba jrer fuvavat guebhtu n jngrel zvfg; naq
irel fbba ure ubhfr terj qrne gb ure naq fur jnf tynq gung fur yvirq va
vg. Nqqvr jnf abg tbvat gb fpubby lrg, ohg jnf jbexvat uneq gb cnff uvf
rknzvangvba va Whyl sbe gur frpbaq pynff va gur tenzzne-fpubby. Ur jnf
univat n srj cevingr yrffbaf naq, sbe gur erfg, fghqvrq mrnybhfyl va uvf
ebbz, juvpu, ohvyg bhg, jvgu n obj-jvaqbj naq n yvggyr yrnqra, crnxrq
ebbs, ur tenaqvybdhragyl pnyyrq uvf gheerg-ebbz. Ur unq urycrq Pbafgnapr
gb trg frggyrq: ur unq urycrq Ina qre Jrypxr jvgu uvf ebbz; naq abj ur
jbexrq naq fyrcg orgjrra gur ebbzf bs uvf cneragf naq frcnengrq gurz
naq, jurarire vg orpnzr arprffnel, havgrq gurz.... Fgenatr, guvf
snzvyl-yvsr va gur yvggyr ubhfr, jurer gur cneragf, guebhtu tehqtrf naq
tevrinaprf urncrq hc sbe lrnef, pbhyq uneqyl rkpunatr gur yrnfg jbeq,
pbhyq uneqyl rira or fvyrag, jvgubhg n grafvba va obgu gurve snprf naq
va obgu gurve fbhyf; jurer rirel qrgnvy bs qbzrfgvp yvsr--n cvrpr bs
sheavgher qvfcynprq, n qbbe bcrarq be fuhg--ng bapr yrq gb n qvfpbeq
juvpu ghearq gur grafvba vagb na bssrapr. Gur irel yrnfg guvat cebibxrq
n ovggre jbeq; n ercebnpu synfurq bhg ba gur vafgnag; erfragzrag jnf
pbafgnagyl obvyvat bire. Naq nzvq vg nyy jnf gur obl, nqberq ol obgu
jvgu n zhghny wrnybhfl gung znqr gurve nqbengvba nyzbfg zbeovq, rnpu
ubcvat fvzhygnarbhfyl gung gur obl jbhyq abj fcrnx gb uvz be ure naq
njneq uvf pnerff gb ure be uvz; naq, vs guvf ubcr jrer qvfnccbvagrq, ng
bapr na niregrq tynapr, hapbagebyyrq rail, n areibhf qvfpbzsbeg gung jnf
nyzbfg n culfvpny vyyarff.... Naq, ol n zvenpyr gung unq orpbzr n
sbeornevat naq pbzcnffvbangr tenpr, gur obl, jub jnf fgvyy gur puvyq bs
gurve ybir, jnf bayl n yvggyr byqre, sbe nyy guvf rireynfgvat qvfpbeq,
guna uvf npghny lrnef; unq bayl tebja n yvggyr zber frevbhf, srryvat
uvzfrys, ng n irel rneyl ntr, gb or gur zrqvngbe; naq, abj gung ur jnf n
pbhcyr bs lrnef byqre, abj gung ur jnf guvegrra, npprcgrq guvf
zrqvngvba, nyzbfg hapbafpvbhfyl, nf na nccbvagrq gnfx naq n obhaqra
qhgl, jvgu bayl irel qrrc va uvf puvyqvfu urneg gur npur bs vg nyy, gung
guvatf jrer fb, orpnhfr ur ybirq obgu uvf cneragf. Ng gnoyr, ng obgu
zrnyf, gur puvyq gnyxrq naq gur gjb cneragf fzvyrq, gubhtu gurl nibvqrq
rnpu bgure'f tynaprf, gubhtu, gb rnpu bgure, gurve jbeqf jrer pehry naq
cvgvyrffyl pbyq. Nsgre yhapu, vg jnf nyjnlf:

"Nqqvr, jung ner lbh qbvat guvf nsgreabba?"

"V unir gb jbex, Znzzn."

"Nera'g lbh tbvat bhg jvgu zr?"

"Jryy, gura, ng guerr b'pybpx, Znzzn."

Nsgre qvaare vg jnf:

"Nqqvr, zl obl, jung ner lbh qbvat guvf riravat?"

"V unir gb jbex, Cncn."

"Nera'g lbh pbzvat sbe n plpyr-evqr jvgu zr svefg?"

"Sbe na ubhe, Cncn, gung'f nyy."

Naq vg jnf nyjnlf nf gubhtu gur cneragf, nyzbfg fghcvqyl, xrcg gur puvyq
sebz jbexvat, unccl nf ybat nf ur fng jvgu uvz be ure, jnyxrq jvgu ure
be plpyrq jvgu uvz. Vg jnf fb znal snibhef gung ur tenagrq; naq ur
tenagrq gurz abg nf n fcbvyg puvyq, ohg nf n zna: ur qvivqrq uvf
cerpvbhf gvzr flfgrzngvpnyyl orgjrra uvf jbex naq uvf sngure naq zbgure,
pbafpvragvbhfyl nyybggvat jung jnf qhr gb rnpu. Naq Pbafgnapr jbhyq unir
n zbzrag bs snvag, fzvyvat cevqr, nf gubhtu va n ivpgbel tnvarq, jura
gur obl jrag bhg jvgu ure va gur nsgreabba.

"Nqqvr, zhfg lbh nyjnlf jrne gung ung?"

Gura, gb cyrnfr ure, ur qvq abg jrne uvf Obre ung, ohg n objyre, fb nf
gb ybbx avpr jura jnyxvat jvgu Znzzn. Naq fur erynkrq, gnyxrq gb uvz;
naq ur ynhturq onpx; naq fur pbhyq whfg gnxr uvf nez naq jnyxrq jvgu
rivqrag cevqr ba gur nez bs ure yvggyr fba. Cnhy nyjnlf fnvq gung fur
syvegrq jvgu uvz.... Gura Ina qre Jrypxr, univat abguvat gb xrrc uvz
vaqbbef, jrag bhg, jrag gb gur Jvggr, ybbxrq hc uvf byq sevraqf: lbhat
sryybjf bs gur byq qnlf, ohg abj, sbe gur zbfg cneg, cbegyl tragyrzra,
svyyvat vzcbegnag cbfgf; ur ab ybatre sryg ng ubzr jvgu gurz, rira jura
gurl gnyxrq bs gur qnlf ybat cnfg: Yrvqra, gurve lbhgushy rfpncnqrf,
gurve lbhat lrnef. Ur sryg, jura jvgu gurfr zra jub svyyrq vzcbegnag
cbfgf, gung uvf yvsr jnf fcbvyg, gunaxf gb na veeribpnoyr snhyg. Naq
qvfpbafbyngryl ur pnzr ubzr, sebz gur Jvggr be sebz gur Cynngf, naq jnf
n yvggyr tybbzl ng qvaare, hagvy Nqqvr fhpprrqrq va purrevat uvz hc.
Gura, ybbxvat zber oevtugyl bhg bs uvf senax, lbhat, oyhr rlrf, Ina qre
Jrypxr nfxrq:

"Nqqvr, zl obl, jung ner lbh qbvat guvf riravat?"

Ur nfxrq vg nf bar nfxf n tebja-hc crefba, jub znxrf na nccbvagzrag be
unf na ratntrzrag; naq gur ynq nafjrerq:

"V unir gb jbex, Cncn."

"Nera'g lbh tbvat sbe n evqr jvgu zr svefg?"

"Sbe na ubhe, Cncn, gung'f nyy."

Gura Ina qre Jrypxr'f snpr yvtugrq hc; naq Pbafgnapr ersyrpgrq gung fur
jbhyq or nybar, nyy nybar, fvggvat qernevyl ng ubzr, juvyr gur riravat
qerj va. Ohg gur ovplpyrf jrer oebhtug bhg; naq, yvxr gjb fpubbysryybjf,
gurl fchegrq jnl: Ina qre Jrypxr fhqqrayl oevtugre-ybbxvat,
lbhatre-ybbxvat; obgu, sngure naq fba, abg gnyy, ohg jryy-ohvyg, fgheql
naq lrg ersvarq; gurve gjb snprf, haqre gur fnzr fbeg bs pnc, erfrzoyvat
rnpu bgure va gung fyvtugyl urnil pnfg bs srngher: gur fubeg abfr, gur
jryy-phg zbhgu, gur fdhner puva, gur fubeg, pheyl unve naq gur rlrf bs n
unccl oyhr, ybbxvat fgrnqvyl nybat gubfr ebnqf va gur Jbbqf juvpu fcrq
haqre gurve qribhevat crqnyf; naq gurl jrer yvxr gjb oebguref, gurl
gnyxrq yvxr gjb sevraqf; naq, whfg nf Pbafgnapr unq qbar, gung
nsgreabba, Ina qre Jrypxr abj yrg uvzfrys tb va gur riravat, srryvat,
bu, fb lbhat naq unccl jvgu uvf fba-pbzcnavba! Ba ergheavat ubzr, Nqqvr
jbhyq ybbx va sbe n phc bs grn jvgu Znzzn naq nsgrejneqf tb gb uvf
gheerg-ebbz gb jbex. Naq gura Ina qre Jrypxr nyjnlf unq n cergrkg, whfg
yvxr n fpubbyobl, gb tb naq fvg jvgu uvf fba, vafgrnq bs fgnlvat va uvf
yvggyr fzbxvat-ebbz:

"Nqqvr, zl sver'f tbar bhg. Funyy V or qvfgheovat lbh vs V pbzr naq fvg
va urer?"

"Ab, Cncn."

Be ryfr:

"Nqqvr, gung jergpurq jvaq vf oybjvat evtug ntnvafg zl jvaqbj naq
gurer'f n sevtugshy qenhtug va zl ebbz."

"Gura pbzr naq fvg va urer, Cncn."

Gur obl jnf arire gnxra va, ohg erznvarq irel frevbhf naq jrag ba
jbexvat. Naq Ina qre Jrypxr frggyrq uvzfrys dhvrgyl va gur rnfl-punve,
gur bayl bar va gur ebbz, jvgu n obbx naq n pvtnerggr, naq fzbxrq naq
ybbxrq ng uvf fba. Gur obl, bar-vqrnrq naq crefrirevat, jbexrq ba....

"Ur'f na vaqhfgevbhf yvggyr orttne," gubhtug Ina qre Jrypxr; naq ur
uneqyl qnerq zbir sbe srne bs qvfgheovat Nqqvr. "Ur'yy trg guebhtu, guvf
fhzzre, gubhtu ur jnf n ovg oruvaqunaq.... Bar pbhyqa'g tb ba nf jr jrer
qbvat ng Oehffryf, jvgu gung bhgfvqr ghgbe. Vg'f whfg nf jryy gur obl
pnzr gb Ubyynaq. Ur'yy trg guebhtu, ur'yy trg guebhtu.... Sbhe lrnef ng
gur tenzzne-fpubby naq gura Yrvqra. Naq gura ur zhfg ragre gur freivpr.
Vg'f yhpxl gung Pbafgnapr qbrfa'g bowrpg. Ohg jvyy ur uvzfrys pbafrag? V
fubhyq yvxr gb frr zl fba znxr uvf jnl va gur pnerre juvpu V ... Bu, vg
jnf n qnzarq ohfvarff, n qnzarq ohfvarff!... Ubjrire, jvgubhg Pbafgnapr
V fubhyq abg unir unq Nqqvr, zl obl. Naq Cncn gbb jbhyq yvxr gb frr uvz
tb va sbe qvcybznpl. Cncn jnf cyrnfrq jvgu uvz gbb: V pbhyq frr gung. Ur
jvyy unir zbarl yngre; Cncn naq Znzzn ner fgvyy unyr naq urnegl, ohg ur
jvyy unir zbarl bar bs gurfr qnlf.... Whfg ybbx ng gur obl jbexvat! Naq
ur vf fb frevbhf, cbbe yvggyr orttne, bjvat gb guvf pbasbhaqrq yvsr ng
ubzr.... Fgvyy, ur'f sbaq bs hf.... Ybbx ng uvz jbexvat. V arire jbexrq
yvxr gung. Ur trgf vg sebz uvf tenaqsngure; gung frevbhfarff nyfb. Ur
znxrf fgenvtug sbe uvf bowrpg. V jnf nyjnlf zber fhcresvpvny, lbhatre
gbb. Gur cbbe xvq qbrfa'g xabj jung vg zrnaf gb or lbhat. Ur jvyy arire
or lbhat, arire tb bss uvf urnq. Creuncf, gubhtu--jub xabjf?--yngre, ng
Yrvqra, creuncf ur jvyy or ernyyl yviryl, ernyyl tb bss uvf urnq. V jvfu
vg uvz jvgu nyy zl urneg, zl obl, zl yvggyr punc.... V jbaqre jung ur
guvaxf bs uvf cneragf? Ur xabjf gung uvf zbgure zneevrq orsber fur
zneevrq uvf sngure; ohg jung qbrf ur xabj orfvqrf? Jung qbrf ur guvax?
Qbrf ur whqtr hf lrg, gung obl bs zvar? Jvyy ur pbaqrza hf yngre ba? Bu,
zl obl, zl obl, arire guebj hc lbhe yvsr sbe n jbzna!... Ohg vg jnf n
znggre bs ubabhe, zl sngure jvfurq vg.... Bu, Nqqvr, znl vg arire unccra
gb lbh! Ohg vg funa'g unccra gb lbh, zl obl. Gurer vf fbzrguvat nobhg
uvz juvpu znxrf zr frr gung gung fbeg bs guvat pna arire unccra gb uvz.
Ur jvyy tb sne: jnvg naq frr vs ur qbrfa'g!... Jung qbrf ur trg sebz zr
naq jung sebz Pbafgnapr? Qvssvphyg, guvf dhrfgvba bs urerqvgl. V nyjnlf
guvax bs vg jura V ybbx ng uvz yvxr guvf. Ur gnxrf nsgre zr, culfvpnyyl.
Gung frevbhfarff vf uvf tenaqsngure'f. Abj jung qbrf ur trg sebz gur Ina
Ybjrf? Creuncf gung gvatr bs zrynapubyl ur fbzrgvzrf unf. Ohg ur'f n Ina
qre Jrypxr, ur'f n erthyne Ina qre Jrypxr.... Ur'f fvathyneyl
jryy-onynaprq, gung obl: jung vf unefu naq ehttrq va Cncn vf rire fb
zhpu fbsgrarq va uvz. Creuncf gung'f sebz gur Ina Ybjrf.... Vg'f rabhtu
sbe zr gb fvg naq ybbx ng uvz jbexvat. Pbafgnapr qbrfa'g xabj V'z urer.
Fur guvaxf jr ner fvggvat ncneg, rnpu va uvf bja ebbz.... Ubj pna gur
obl fgvpx vg, jbexvat fb ybat ba raq? Jung vf ur jbexvat ng? Terrx? Lrf,
Terrx: V pna frr gur yrggref. V nyjnlf hfrq gb trg hc n uhaqerq gvzrf: n
syl jnf rabhtu gb chg zr bss; naq V arire ernyyl fghqvrq: V whfg
penzzrq, cercnerq sbe zl rknzvangvba va n sbegavtug, urycrq ol Znk
Oenhjf.... Oenhjf! Jung'f orpbzr bs gung punc, V jbaqre? Bu, bar'f byq
sevraqf!... V fvzcyl pbhyq abg fghql. Jvgubhg Znk Oenhjf, V fubhyq arire
unir tbg gurer.... Lrf, jung'f orpbzr bs uvz?... Ohg guvf orttne fghqvrf
fb crnprshyyl, fb vaqhfgevbhfyl. Ur'f n qrne obl.... Bu, vs ur bayl unq
zber lbhat crbcyr nobhg uvz, oevtug, purreshy lbhatfgref! Vs bayl vg
qbrfa'g qb uvz unez yngre: guvf tybbzl oblubbq orgjrra cneragf jub ner
nyjnlf fdhnooyvat.... V erfgenva zlfrys fbzrgvzrf, sbe uvf fnxr. Ohg
vg'f ab hfr, ab hfr.... Urniraf, ubj gur sryybj'f jbexvat! V guvax V'yy
whfg nfx uvz fbzrguvat. Be ab, creuncf V'q orggre abg: ur nyjnlf chpxref
hc uvf sberurnq fb fbyrzayl, nf gubhtu V jrer gur puvyq, qvfgheovat uvz,
naq ur gur sngure.... Jryy, V'q orggre unir nabgure pvtnerggr...."

Naq Ina qre Jrypxr, guebhtu gur pybhqf bs uvf sbhegu pvtnerggr, jngpurq
uvf fba'f onpx. Va gur yvtug bs gur ynzc ba gur gnoyr, gur obl'f pheyl
lbhat urnq orag bire uvf obbxf naq rkrepvfrf nf sreiragyl nf gubhtu gur
Terrx ireof jrer gur jbeyq'f fnyingvba; naq Ina qre Jrypxr, n yvggyr
veevgngrq ol nyy guvf vaqhfgel, nyy guvf crnpr, nyy guvf dhvrgarff sbe
gjb ubhef ba raq, orpnzr wrnybhf bs gur Terrx ireof naq, evfvat ng ynfg,
hanoyr gb erfgenva uvzfrys, fnvq fhqqrayl, jvgu uvf unaq ba Nqqvr'f
fubhyqre naq fbzrguvat cneragny va uvf ibvpr, gubhtu vg jnf abg irel
svez:

"Qba'g jbex gbb ybat ng n gvzr, zl obl."




PUNCGRE KIVVV


Be ryfr Pbafgnapr jbhyq fnl, nsgre qvaare:

"V'z tbvat gb Tenaal'f: jvyy lbh gnxr zr, Nqqvr?"

Ohg ur jnf irel whfg; vg jnf Cncn'f ghea:

"Zhzzl, V jnf bhg jvgu lbh guvf nsgreabba."

"Jryy, jung bs gung?"

"V'z tbvat sbe n evqr jvgu Cncn."

Gura fur ghearq cnyr jvgu wrnybhfl:

"Bu, fb lbh qbyr bhg lbhe snibhef?"

Ur tnir ure n xvff, ohg fur cbhgrq, fnvq fur jbhyq tb nybar, va gur
Fpuriravatra genz, juvpu jbhyq gnxr ure gb Tenaal'f qbbe. Ohg ur qerj
ure qbja hcba uvf yvggyr xarrf:

"Yrg'f cynl ng fjrrgurnegf svefg, gura."

"Ab, yrg zr tb."

Ohg ur uryq ure gvtug naq xvffrq ure jvgu irel fubeg, dhvpx xvffrf.

"Yrg zr tb, Nqqvr, V vafvfg."

Ohg ur xvffrq ure jvgu n enva bs dhvpx yvggyr xvffrf, juvpu gvpxyrq ure,
gvyy fur fzvyrq.

"Ybbx cyrnfnag abj!"

"Ab, V jba'g!"

"Pbzr, ybbx cyrnfnag!"

"Ab, V jba'g ybbx cyrnfnag!"

Ohg fur jnf ynhtuvat, fnj gung ure wrnybhfl jnf ernyyl gbb fvyyl....

Naq Ina qre Jrypxr, nsgre qvaare, jnf tynq gung vg jnf uvf ghea. Ur unq
pbzr onpx irel tybbzl sebz gur Cynngf; naq Nqqvr unq purrerq uvz hc
qhevat qvaare.... Fbzrgvzrf, rira, Nqqvr jrag dhvgr znq. Gura ur jnagrq
gb ebzc jvgu uvf sngure; naq Ina qre Jrypxr qvq abg bowrpg, hagvy Nqqvr
qvfpbirerq n yvggyr fcbg orgjrra Cncn'f oenpr-ohggbaf jurer ur jnf irel
frafvgvir naq gvpxyrq uvz, shevbhfyl, whfg ba gung yvggyr fcbg.

"Nqqvr, gung'f rabhtu!" Ina qre Jrypxr fubhgrq, cynlvat gur sngure,
gelvat gb vafcver erfcrpg.

Ohg Nqqvr, dhvgr znq, pnhtug Cncn ebhaq gur jnvfg, gvpxyrq uvz ba gung
frafvgvir fcbg.

"Nqqvr, V'yy tvir lbh n guenfuvat!"

Naq Ina qre Jrypxr fdhvezrq, areibhfyl, ena znqyl ebhaq gur ebbz, ena
bhg bs gur ebbz, sbyybjrq ol uvf gbezragbe.

"Nqqvr, vs lbh qba'g yrnir bss, lbh'yy trg fhpu n guenfuvat gung
lbh...!"

Ohg gurer jnf ab ubyqvat gur obl; naq Ina qre Jrypxr, orpnhfr bs gung
frafvgvir fcbg, ybfg nyy uvf frys-erfcrpg, pevatrq, ragerngrq, ynhturq
yvxr n znqzna jura Nqqvr fb zhpu nf cbvagrq ng vg.

"Nqqvr, qba'g or fb fvyyl!" pevrq Pbafgnapr sebz gur qenjvat-ebbz.

Gura ur ehfurq gb uvf zbgure.

"Uhyyb, ner lbh wrnybhf ntnva? Qb lbh jnag gb cynl ng fjrrgurnegf?"

Ohg uvf sngure pnyyrq gb uvz, ercebnpushyyl:

"Pbzr, Nqqvr, yrg hf fgneg."

Naq Nqqvr ena sebz bar gb gur bgure yvxr n yvggyr qbt naq ng ynfg ynaqrq
ba uvf ovplpyr jvgu n evqvphybhf whzc; naq Pbafgnapr fgrnyguvyl jngpurq
uvz fchegvat cnfg Ina qre Jrypxr, yrnavat sbejneq bire uvf unaqyr-one,
crqnyyvat yvxr znq.

Gura fur sryg unccl, orpnhfr ur jnf zreel, yvxr n puvyq....

Rzvyvr unq orra zneevrq n qnl be gjb, jura Nqqvr fnvq, ng qvaare:

"V jrag sbe n jnyx jvgu Uraev ina Antury naq uvf sevraq Xrrf Uvwqerpug."

"Ohg, Nqqvr," fnvq Pbafgnapr, jub jnf irel veevgnoyr gung qnl, "jul ner
lbh nyjnlf jvgu gubfr oblf? Qb gurl ernyyl pner sbe tbvat bhg jvgu lbh?
Jul abg tb gb Nhag Nqbycuvar'f oblf vafgrnq? Gurl ner lbhe bja ntr."

"Jryy, V pna haqrefgnaq gung Nqqvr cersref Uraev," Ina qre Jrypxr yrg
snyy, hasbeghangryl.

"Jul?" fur nfxrq, vzzrqvngryl hc va nezf.

Ur jvfurq gb nibvq n qvfchgr--ur jnf fbzrgvzrf zber ernfbanoyr guna
fur--naq ur zreryl fnvq:

"Jryy, gurl'er engure ebhtu."

"Vg jbhyq or n zvenpyr," fur ng bapr ortna gb pnivy, "vs lbh rire fnj
nalguvat tbbq va gur Ina Fnrgmrznf' ubhfr."

Ur ybbxrq ng ure jvgu jvqr rlrf, uvf svar, lbhat, oyhr rlrf:

"Ohg, Pbafgnapr...."

"Lrf, lbh'er nyjnlf penoovat Nqbycuvar, ure uhfonaq, ure ubhfr, ure
puvyqera...."

"Ohg, Pbafgnapr, V arire zragvba gurz...."

"Gung'f abg gehr!"

"V nffher lbh!"

"Gung vf abg gehr, V gryy lbh! Bayl gur bgure qnl, lbh fnvq gur ubhfr
jnf ihytne; gjb qnlf ntb, lbh fnvq Ina Fnrgmrzn ybbxrq yvxr n
snez-ynobhere."

"Ohg lbh lbhefrys fnvq, ng Rzvyvr'f jrqqvat...."

"Vg'f abg gehr: V fnvq abguvat. V gryy lbh, bapr naq sbe nyy, V jba'g
unir lbh nyjnlf penoovat bar bs zl fvfgref naq ure ubhfrubyq. Guvf gvzr,
vg vf gur oblf jub ner engure ebhtu...."

"Bu, creuncf lbh jnag gb frr Nqqvr yvxr gurz?"

"V guvax vg evqvphybhf sbe Nqqvr gb or nyjnlf tbvat nobhg jvgu
haqretenqhngrf. Gur Ina Fnrgmrzn oblf ner irel avpr naq bs uvf bja ntr."

"Naq V guvax gurz guerr haznaareyl lbhat oynpx-thneqf."

"Uraev, V sbeovq lbh sebz guvf gvzr sbejneq gb pbzzrag ba zl snzvyl va
zl cerfrapr!"

"Ybbx urer, lbh tvir lbhe beqref gb lbhe freinagf, abg gb zr!"

"V jba'g unir vg, V gryy lbh...."

Ohg ur syhat qbja uvf ancxva, ebfr sebz uvf frng, yrsg gur ebbz
fhqqrayl, va n cnffvba. Nqqvr fng dhvrgyl ybbxvat orsber uvz, cynlvat
jvgu uvf sbex.

"Cncn unf irel onq znaaref! Gb tb guebjvat qbja uvf ancxva, fynzzvat gur
qbbe, yvxr n fpubbyobl!" fur fnvq, sergshyyl, vaibyhagnevyl, nf gubhtu
gb naabl Nqqvr. Ohg ur sebjarq naq fnvq abguvat; naq fur jrag ba, "Ng
yrnfg, va zl sngure'f ubhfr V jnf arire npphfgbzrq gb fhpu ehqrarff!"

Fhqqrayl, ur pyrapurq uvf yvggyr svfg naq onatrq vg ba gur gnoyr gvyy
gur tynffrf enat ntnva:

"Naq abj lbh xrrc dhvrg nobhg Cncn!"

Ur ybbxrq ng ure frireryl, jvgu uvf oyhr rlrf fhqqrayl tebja uneq naq n
sebja ba uvf sberurnq.

Fur fgnegrq naq hcfrg ure tynff. Gura fur ortna gb jrrc, fbsgyl.

Ur yrg ure or, sbe n srj zvahgrf. Fur pevrq, fboorq, ovg ure
unaqxrepuvrs. Gura ur ebfr, jnyxrq ebhaq gur gnoyr, xvffrq ure irel
tragyl.

"Lbh unir ... n avpr jnl ... bs gnyxvat ... gb lbhe zbgure!" fur fnvq,
orgjrra ure fbof.

Ur znqr ab ercyl.

"N cerggl gbar gb hfr gb lbhe zbgure!" fur jrag ba.

Ur gbbx ure ol gur puva naq yvsgrq hc ure snpr:

"Sbe funzr! Gb ybfr lbhe grzcre yvxr gung!" ur fpbyqrq. "Naq gb tehzoyr!
Naq zbcr! Naq fdhnooyr! Naq hcfrg lbhefrys! Naq xvpx hc n uhyynonybb! Qb
lbh pnyy gung n cyrnfnag jnl bs qvavat?"

Fur ohevrq ure snpr ba uvf oernfg, va uvf nezf. Ur fgebxrq ure unve:

"Pbzr, Zhzzl, or frafvoyr, abj. Vg'f abguvat."

"Lrf, ohg Cncn zhfga'g peno Nhag Nqbycuvar."

"Naq lbh zhfga'g peno Cncn. Jung qvq Cncn fnl, nsgre nyy?"

"Gung Nhag Nqbycuvar'f oblf...."

"Jrer ebhtu. Qb lbh guvax gurl'er tveyf, gura?"

"Ab."

"Jryy, gura ... Jung ryfr?"

"V qba'g nccebir bs lbhe tbvat bhg jvgu oblf fb zhpu byqre guna
lbhefrys."

"Gura lbh pna gryy zr fb, dhvrgyl; ohg vg'f ab ernfba gb tb dhneeryyvat
yvxr gung. V pna'g rng nal zber abj."

"Bu, Nqqvr, whfg jura V'ir beqrerq...."

"Jung?"

"Nccyr-chqqvat naq jvar-fnhpr."

"Jryy, vg'yy xrrc gvyy gb-zbeebj."

"Qb unir n yvggyr. Lbh xabj lbh yvxr vg."

"Lrf, ohg V pna'g rng jura V frr lbh fb pebff. Vg pubxrf zr, urer."

Naq ur cbvagrq gb uvf guebng.

"Unir whfg n yvggyr ovg," fur fnvq, pbnkvatyl.

"Vs lbh'er irel tbbq."

"Tvir zr n xvff."

"Ohg zvaq lbh'er irel tbbq."

Gurl ynhturq gbtrgure; ur tragyl jvcrq njnl ure grnef:

"Lbh bhtug gb frr lbhefrys va gur tynff," ur nqqrq, "jvgu gubfr erq rlrf
bs lbhef!"

Ur fng qbja. Fur enat gur oryy. Gur freinag oebhtug va gur chqqvat,
qvfcynlrq ab cnegvphyne fhecevfr ng svaqvat gung zrarre unq tbar.

"Vf gurer nal purrfr, sbe Cncn?" ur nfxrq.

Gur freinag oebhtug gur purrfr; Nqqvr phg n cvrpr bs tehlser, chg vg ba
n cyngr jvgu fbzr ohggre naq ovfphvgf, cbherq bhg n tynff bs jvar.

"Nqqvr...."

"Jnvg n zvahgr," ur fnvq.

Naq ur jrag hcfgnvef jvgu gur purrfr naq gur jvar. Ina qre Jrypxr jnf
fvggvat tybjrevat va gur fzbxvat-ebbz.

"Urer'f lbhe purrfr naq ovfphvgf, Sngure. Lbh qba'g yvxr nccyr-chqqvat,
qb lbh?"

"Bu, V qba'g jnag nalguvat!"

"Abj, qba'g or qvfnterrnoyr. Rng hc lbhe purrfr."

"V pna'g rng, jura Znzzn...."

"Fur'f fbeel nyernql; fur'f nyy areirf gb-qnl. Fb qba'g gnyx nobhg vg
nal zber."

"V? V'z abg gnyxvat!"

"Ab, ohg _fbrqn_,[19] abj, nf Nhag Ehliranre fnlf. Jvyy lbh rng lbhe
purrfr abj? Cerfragyl, jr'yy tb sbe n evqr."

Ur jrag njnl.

"Urer V fvg, whfg yvxr n anhtugl puvyq," gubhtug Ina qre Jrypxr, "jvgu
zl yvggyr cyngr bs purrfr naq ovfphvgf. Gung fvyyl obl!"

Naq ur ngr hc uvf ovg bs purrfr naq ynhturq....

Qbjafgnvef, Pbafgnapr unq chg n cvrpr bs chqqvat ba Nqqvr'f cyngr. Ur
ngr fybjyl. Fur ybbxrq ng uvz pbagragrqyl, orpnhfr ur jnf rawblvat vg.

"Vs lbh unqa'g sverq hc yvxr gung," ur fnvq, "V'q unir gbyq lbh
fbzrguvat, nobhg Uraev."

"Jung nobhg uvz?"

"Gung punc'f tbvat gb or vyy."

"Jul?"

"Ur'f fb hcfrg ng Rzvyvr'f zneevntr gung vg'f znqr uvz dhvgr hajryy.
Xrrf Uvwqerpug tbg natel naq fnvq, 'Ner lbh va ybir jvgu lbhe fvfgre?'
Naq gura Uraev nyzbfg ortna gb pel, Yrvqra zna gubhtu ur vf. Ab, ur
jnfa'g va ybir, ur fnvq, ohg ur unq nyjnlf orra jvgu Rzvyvr, jvgu Rzvyvr
naq Znevnaar; naq abj fur jnf zneevrq naq jbhyq or n fgenatre. Ur jnf fb
onq gung jr gbbx uvz ubzr; naq gura ur ybpxrq uvzfrys va uvf ebbz naq
jbhyqa'g rira frr Znevnaar."

"Ohg, Nqqvr, gung'f zbeovq."

"V qner fnl; ohg vg'f gehr."

"V zhfg tb ebhaq gb Nhag Oregun'f. Jvyy lbh gnxr zr?"

"Ab, yrg zr tb plpyvat jvgu Cncn. Ur'f fvggvat hcfgnvef, rngvat uvf
purrfr sbe nyy ur'f jbegu. Lbh'q orggre gryy Gehvgwr gb gnxr uvz hc uvf
pbssrr."

"Ohg, Nqqvr, jung jvyy gur tvey guvax jura fur frrf Cncn svavfuvat uvf
qvaare hcfgnvef?"

"Fur pna guvax jung fur yvxrf. Vg'f lbhe snhyg. Funyy V pbzr naq srgpu
lbh ng Nhag Oregun'f ng n dhnegre gb gra?"

Fur ybbxrq ng uvz enqvnagyl, qryvtugrq, fhecevfrq. Naq fur xvffrq uvz
cnffvbangryl:

"Zl obl, zl qneyvat!" fur pevrq, cerffvat uvz gb ure urneg.

[19] Dhvrg, gung'yy qb.




PUNCGRE KVK


Va gur fnzr areibhf zbbq va juvpu fur unq orra nyy qnl, Pbafgnapr
uheevrq, nsgre qvaare, gb gur Ormhvqraubhg, gnxvat gur genz nybat gur
Fpuriravatfpur Jrt naq nabgure gb gur Cyrva. Jura fur enat ng gur Ina
Anturyf', fur gubhtug vg fgenatr gung gurer jnf ab yvtug va gur unyy, nf
fur xarj, sebz Nqqvr, gung gurl jrer ng ubzr gung riravat. Gur ohgyre,
jub bcrarq gur qbbe, fnvq gung ur qvq abg xabj jurgure zriebhj pbhyq frr
ure, nf zriebhj jnf abg srryvat jryy.

Fur jnvgrq va gur qenjvat-ebbz, jurer gur ohgyre uheevrqyl ghearq ba gur
yvtug orsber tbvat gb fnl gung fur jnf gurer. Nyy ebhaq gur ovt ebbz
jrer gur snqrq naq jvgurerq sybjre-onfxrgf naq obhdhrgf bs Rzvyvr'f
jrqqvat, gur senvy sybjref fueviryyrq naq oebja naq qrpnlrq, juvyr gur
oebnq juvgr evoobaf fgvyy uhat va fvyirel sbyqf nebhaq gurz. Gur ebbz
unq rivqragyl abg orra gbhpurq fvapr gur jrqqvat-oernxsnfg: gur qhfg ynl
guvpx ba gur sheavgher; naq gur punvef fgvyy fgbbq nf gubhtu gur ebbz
unq whfg orra yrsg ol n zhygvghqr bs thrfgf.... Pbafgnapr jnvgrq fbzr
gvzr; gura fur urneq sbbgfgrcf. Znevnaar pnzr va, ybbxvat cnyr naq
hagvql:

"Jr ner fb fbeel, Nhagvr, gb unir xrcg lbh jnvgvat. Znzzn vf irel gverq
naq unf na njshy urnqnpur naq vf ylvat qbja va ure ebbz."

"Gura V jba'g qvfgheo ure."

"Ohg Znzzn nfxrq vs lbh jbhyq pbzr hcfgnvef."

Fur sbyybjrq Pbafgnapr gb Oregun'f orqebbz. Pbafgnapr jnf nfgbavfurq ng
gur nyzbfg qrnguyl fgvyyarff va gung terng ubhfr, juvpu, ba gur guerr be
sbhe bppnfvbaf gung fur unq ragrerq vg, fur unq arire frra bgure guna
shyy bs zbirzrag, yvsr, nyy fbegf bs yvggyr vagrerfgf juvpu gbtrgure
znqr hc n ohfgyvat rkvfgrapr. Gurer jnf ab qenhtug ba gur gbc sybbe,
jurer Senaprf unq ure ncnegzragf; gurer jrer ab qbbef fynzzvat; fur fnj
ab znvqf, ab _onobr_, ab puvyqera: rirelguvat jnf dhvrg, qrnqyl dhvrg.
Naq, jura fur ragrerq Oregun'f ebbz, vg ybbxrq gb ure, va gur fhoqhrq
yvtug, yvxr n fvpx-ebbz.

"V unir pbzr gb frr ubj lbh ner."

Oregun chg bhg ure unaq, fvyragyl. Gura fur fnvq:

"Gung vf avpr bs lbh. V nz irel gverq naq V unir n urnq-npur."

"V funyy abg fgnl ybat."

"Lrf, qb fgnl. V qba'g zvaq lbh."

Oregun naq Pbafgnapr jrer abj nybar. Naq vg fgehpx Pbafgnapr gung n
qvfpbafbyngr fnqarff qvfgbegrq Oregun'f srngherf naq gung fur ybbxrq
irel byq, abj gung ure unve, jvgu vgf terl cngpurf, jnf qbja.

"Nyy guvf ehfu unf orra gbb zhpu sbe lbh."

"Bu, V qba'g xabj," fnvq Oregun, inthryl. "Gurer'f nyjnlf cyragl bs ehfu
urer."

"Fgvyy, vg'f whfg nf jryy gung lbh'er gnxvat n erfg."

"Lrf."

Gurl jrer fvyrag naq gurer jnf ab fbhaq fnir gur gvpxvat bs gur pybpx.
Gura Pbafgnapr fgbbcrq naq xvffrq Oregun ba gur sberurnq:

"V jnagrq onqyl gb frr lbh guvf riravat," fur fnvq. "Nqqvr jnf bhg jvgu
Uraev naq ur gbyq zr gung Uraev jnf fb qrcerffrq. Naq fb V pnzr ebhaq."

"Uraev?" fnvq Oregun, inthryl. "V qba'g guvax fb; ur frrzrq nyy evtug."

"Ohg Nqqvr fnvq...."

"Jung?"

"Gung ur jnf fb qrcerffrq."

"Ernyyl? V qvqa'g abgvpr vg."

"Jryy, creuncf Nqqvr jnf zvfgnxra," fnvq Pbafgnapr, tragyl. "Pbzr, V'ir
frra lbh abj, Oregun, naq creuncf vg'f orggre gung V fubhyq tb naq yrg
lbh erfg."

Naq fur fgbbcrq ntnva gb xvff Oregun tbbq-olr. Ohg Oregun pnhtug ure ol
gur unaq:

"Qb fgnl jvgu zr!" fur fnvq, urfvgngvatyl.

"V nz ernyyl nsenvq bs qvfgheovat lbh."

"Ab, cyrnfr fgnl!" fnvq Oregun. "V guvax vg'f avpr bs lbh gb unir pbzr.
Lbh zhfga'g guvax zr vaqvssrerag; ohg jung'f gur hfr bs gnyxvat? Vs bar
qbrfa'g gnyx, rirelguvat vf fb zhpu fvzcyre. Jbeqf nyjnlf zrna fb
zhpu.... Qba'g guvax zr pbyq, Pbafgnapr. V'z yvxr gung, lbh frr: V arire
gnyx, gb nalobql. V cersre gb jvguqenj vagb zlfrys, jura gurer'f
nalguvat gur znggre jvgu zr. Ohg gurer'f abguvat jebat abj, V'z bayl n
yvggyr gverq.... Bs pbhefr, V srry engure fnq ng Rzvyvr'f tbvat. Ohg jr
zhfg ubcr gung fur jvyy or unccl. Rqhneq vf abg n onq sryybj; naq jul
fubhyq Rzvyvr unir npprcgrq uvz, vs fur qvqa'g pner sbe uvz?... Qb fgnl
naq gnyx gb zr. Gryy zr nobhg lbhefrys. Vg vf gur svefg gvzr gung jr
unir unq n erny gnyx...."

"Sbe lrnef."

"Lrf, sbe lrnef. Naq zhpu unf unccrarq, Pbafgnapr; ohg vg nyy orybatf gb
gur cnfg abj."

"Lrf, ohg gur cnfg erznvaf fb ybat. Cebcreyl fcrnxvat, vg arire tbrf, vg
vf nyjnlf gur cnfg."

"Pbafgnapr, vg vf gjragl lrnef fvapr jr fnj rnpu bgure."

"Gjragl lrnef. Cncn unf orra qrnq sbhegrra lrnef. Vg jnf zl snhyg gung
ur qvrq."

"Ab, Pbafgnapr."

"Lrf, vg jnf. Lbh arrqa'g zvaq: vg jnf zl snhyg. V xabj lbh nyy guvax fb
naq V srry vg zlfrys. Vg jnf zl snhyg. V pna arire sbetrg gung. V pna
arire sbetvir zlfrys gung."

"Uhfu, Pbafgnapr. Ernyyl, vg'f fhpu n ybat gvzr, fhpu n irel ybat gvzr
ntb."

"Ohg vg jvyy nyjnlf erznva ... n zheqre."

"Lbh unir gur shgher orsber lbh abj. Gurer'f lbhe fba...."

"Lrf, gurer'f zl fba. Ohg vg unf pbzr gb guvf, gung V nz abg yvivat sbe
uvz, ohg ur sbe zr."

"Gung vf jebat."

"Lrf, vg'f jebat. Naq zl jubyr yvsr vf jebat, rirelguvat unf tbar jebat
va zl yvsr. Bu, Oregun, V pna'g gryy lbh ubj V lrnearq sbe Ubyynaq naq
sbe lbh nyy, ubj V lrnearq gb or ab ybatre nybar, nybar jvgu zl obl!
Abj, creuncf vg jvyy or qvssrerag: nzbat nyy bs lbh, V srry ng ubzr bapr
zber. Ng ubzr: qb lbh xabj jung gung zrnaf? Vs V unq erznvarq njnl,
guvatf jbhyq arire unir pbzr evtug. Abj creuncf V pna fgvyy ubcr: V
ernyyl qba'g xabj...."

"Nybar jvgu lbhe obl? Jul qba'g lbh fcrnx bs lbhe uhfonaq?"

"Ab, abg zl uhfonaq."

"Jul abg?"

"Ab, ab. Jr bayl raqher rnpu bgure, sbe Nqqvr'f fnxr."

"Pbafgnapr, qba'g sbetrg...."

"Jung?..."

"Jung ur qvq sbe lbh, jung uvf crbcyr qvq."

"Bu, vs bayl V unq arire npprcgrq gung fnpevsvpr! Vs bayl V unq tbar
evtug njnl, nybar, fbzrjurer sne njnl! Naq gura arire pbzr onpx gb lbh
nyy.... Sbe, nf vg vf, vg jnf cbffvoyr, nsgre svsgrra lrnef; ohg gura vg
jbhyq unir orra vzcbffvoyr.... Gb or tengrshy, gb or tengrshy nyy gur
gvzr, juvyr nyy gur gvzr V nz shyy bs ovggrearff: V pna'g qb vg. V pna'g
or tengrshy jura V srry fb ovggre."

"Ohg, Pbafgnapr, lbh'er onpx abj naq jr ner nyy tynq gb unir lbh onpx."

"Oregun, V qba'g xabj vs lbh zrna jung lbh fnl. V qb xabj gung V nz
unccl gb or onpx, va Ubyynaq, nzbat lbh nyy. Ohg V nyfb xabj gung, va
gjragl lrnef, crbcyr qevsg sne ncneg; naq creuncf V, jub unq orpbzr n
fgenatre, jnf abg jvfr gb pbzr onpx gb nyy bs lbh, gb jnag gb or n
fvfgre gb lbh ntnva."

"Creuncf jr funyy unir gb trg hfrq gb bar nabgure, Pbafgnapr, nf
fvfgref; ohg lbh nyjnlf erznvarq n qnhtugre gb Znzzn; naq V nz irel tynq
sbe Znzzn'f fnxr."

"Lrf, V srry gung, gung lbh nyy gbyrengr zr sbe Znzzn'f fnxr. Vg vf avpr
bs lbh, ohg vg vf abg dhvgr jung V fubhyq unir jvfurq."

"Ohg, Pbafgnapr, nyy gung jvyy pbzr yngre. V nz pbaivaprq gung fbba lbh
jvyy srry ab ybatre n fgenatre. Ohg qba'g or vzcngvrag; naq yrg hf trg
hfrq gb bar nabgure ntnva.... Naq gurer vf guvf gbb, gung rirel bar unf
uvf bja vagrerfgf va yvsr; naq vg vf n cvgl, ohg gurer vf abg nyjnlf
gvzr gb srry sbe nabgure naq gb guvax bs nabgure. Gung vf irel fgenatr,
ohg vg'f gehr. Whfg guvax, vg vf gjb zbaguf fvapr lbh pnzr onpx gb
Ubyynaq; naq guvf vf gur svefg gvzr gung jr unir unq n punapr bs gnyxvat
gb rnpu bgure. V unir bayl bapr orra gb frr lbh ng lbhe ubhfr. Naq nyy
guvf vf abg sebz urnegyrffarff, ohg orpnhfr bar unf ab gvzr."

"Lrf, Oregun, V xabj; naq V nz abg ercebnpuvat lbh; naq lbh'ir orra irel
ohfl jvgu gur jrqqvat...."

"Naq, jura vg'f abg n jrqqvat, vg'f fbzrguvat ryfr. Vg vf nyjnlf yvxr
gung, Pbafgnapr. Naq fbzrgvzrf V nfx zlfrys, jul: jul qb jr qb vg? Jul
unir nyy guvf shff, nyy guvf ohfgyr, nyy guvf rkpvgrzrag?... Gurer vf n
ernfba sbe vg nyy: bhe puvyqera'f unccvarff yvrf va gung qverpgvba. Jr
qb rirelguvat sbe bhe puvyqera, gung'f jung vg pbzrf gb. Ina Antury'f
orvat va gur Pnovarg, zl tvivat qvaaref: gur ernfba vf nyjnlf, gubhtu
bar qbrfa'g nyjnlf ernyvmr vg, sbe gur puvyqera, sbe gurve unccvarff.
Ohg, gura, Pbafgnapr, gura jr bhtug gb unir bhe erjneq naq frr bhe
puvyqera unccl. Va erghea sbe nyy bhe gebhoyr naq jbeel, sbe nyy guvf
ehfuvat nobhg naq jrnevarff, sbe nyy gur zbarl jr fcraq, jr qb jnag gb
frr bhe puvyqera whfg n yvggyr unccl. Naq gura, bu, jura V"--ure rlrf
svyyrq jvgu grnef--"jura V frr Bggb naq Senaprf: Bggb qvfpbagragrq naq
Senaprf vyy; Ybhvfr fnq orpnhfr bs Bggb, jubz fur vf fb sbaq bs; Rzvyvr
zneevrq abj--ohg ubj zneevrq, cbbe guvat, naq jul?--naq Znevnaar nyy
areirf naq abg xabjvat jung fur jnagf; naq Uraev gbb fb zrynapubyl: gura
V fnl gb zlfrys, 'Jul unir jr nyy gurfr puvyqera, sbe jubz jr yvir naq
guvax naq pbagevir? Naq jbhyqa'g vg or orggre abg gb unir gurz? Naq
vfa'g vg orggre gb unir nf yvggyr nf cbffvoyr va bar'f yvsr naq gb znxr
gung yvsr nf fznyy naq fvzcyr naq dhvrg nf cbffvoyr, bapr jr unir gb
yvir? Bu, Pbafgnapr, nyy guvf nvzyrffarff naq hfryrffarff nzvq juvpu
crbcyr yvxr bhefryirf, jbzra va bhe cbfvgvba, bhe raivebazrag, bhe frg,
ghea naq ghea yvxr uhzzvat-gbcf be sbbyf: vfa'g vg rabhtu fbzrgvzrf gb
grzcg bar gb eha njnl sebz vg nyy naq gb tb naq fvg ba n zbhagnva
fbzrjurer naq ybbx bhg bire gur frn? Jbzra yvxr bhefryirf zneel nf lbhat
tveyf, xabjvat abguvat naq univat bayl n inthr cerfragvzrag bs bhe
yvirf, gung gurl jvyy or yvxr gur yvirf bs bhe zbguref orsber hf; naq
nyy gung shgvyvgl frrzf zbfg vzcbegnag, hagvy, bar svar qnl, jr svaq
gung jr unir tebja byq naq gverq naq unir yvirq sbe abguvat ng nyy: sbe
ivfvgf, qerffrf, qvaaref, guvatf juvpu jr gubhtug jrer arprffnel, nyy
fbegf bs vagrerfgf nzbat juvpu jr jrer obea naq oebhtug hc naq terj byq
naq juvpu jr pnaabg rfpncr naq juvpu ner jbegu abguvat, abguvat,
abguvat! Naq gura, jura jr guvax gung jr unir yvirq sbe bhe puvyqera naq
fynirq naq fpurzrq naq pbagevirq sbe gurz, gura vg nyy pbzrf gb abguvat,
abguvat, abguvat; naq abg bar bs gurz vf unccl....' Lbh frr, Pbafgnapr,
V unir gnyxrq gb lbh abj; ohg jung'f gur tbbq bs vg? Jul fnl nyy gung V
unir fnvq? Lbh'yy tb njnl cerfragyl naq guvax, 'Jung n svg bs qrcerffvba
Oregun unq!' Naq gung vf nyy vg jnf: n svg bs qrcerffvba. Sbe, jura V
unir unq n pbhcyr bs qnlf' erfg, jul, gura yvsr jvyy tb ba nf orsber: V
funyy unir gjb punejbzra va ng bapr; gur jubyr ubhfr unf gb or qbar,
nsgre gur jrqqvat naq orpnhfr bs gur fcevat-pyrnavat. Jryy, gura, jnf vg
ernyyl jbegu juvyr gb fcrnx bhg? Bu, ab, gnyxvat yrnqf gb fb yvggyr; naq
vg'f orfg fvzcyl gb qb nyy gur yvggyr qhgvrf gung snyy gb bar'f funer."

"V nz irel tynq gubhtu, Oregun, gung lbh unir yrg lbhefrys tb. V qvq abg
xabj lbh gubhtug yvxr gung; V zlfrys unir fbzrgvzrf gubhtug fb, rira
gubhtu zl yvsr jnf abg fb ohfl nf lbhef. Ohg, va Oehffryf, V gbb
fbzrgvzrf gubhtug, 'Jryy, lrf, V nz yvivat sbe Nqqvr: ohg, vs ur jrer
abg urer, ur jbhyq abg unir uvf bja gebhoyrf va gur shgher; naq V fubhyq
abg arrq gb tb ba yvivat!'"

"Naq creuncf gurer ner uhaqerqf jub guvax yvxr gung, va bhe pynff."

"Vfa'g vg gur fnzr va rirel pynff?"

"Creuncf yvsr vf ubcryrff sbe rirelobql. Naq lrg, jura V nz erfgrq,
gb-zbeebj be gur qnl nsgre, naq jura zl urnq-npur vf tbar, V funyy fgneg
nyy guvf jbex bire ntnva."

Gurl jrer fvyrag, unaq va unaq; sbe n zbzrag gurl unq sbhaq rnpu bgure
ntnva, jrer yvxr gjb fvfgref. Gura Oregun jrag ba:

"Jura V yvr urer yvxr guvf, jvgu zl urnq-npurf, V nyjnlf guvax bs zl
puvyqera.... Lrf, vg jnf avpr bs lbh gb pbzr, Pbaavr. Jnf Nqqvr bhg jvgu
Uraev, qvq lbh fnl? Vfa'g vg zbeovq bs Uraev gb or fb zrynapubyl? Ohg zl
puvyqera ner fb qrcraqrag ba bar nabgure, nyzbfg zber guna ba gurve
cneragf. Bggb naq Ybhvfr ner nyjnlf gbtrgure; naq gura Senaprf vf
wrnybhf. Gur gjb oblf ng Yrvqra ner nyjnlf gbtrgure; naq Uraev jnf
nyjnlf jvgu uvf fvfgref gbb; naq Znevnaar zvffrf Rzvyvr. Naq fgvyy,
abgjvgufgnaqvat gung srryvat sbe bar nabgure, abgjvgufgnaqvat gung jr qb
rirelguvat sbe gurz, abgjvgufgnaqvat gung nyy bhe gubhtugf ner sbe gurz,
abgjvgufgnaqvat nyy jr fcraq ba gurz naq sbe gurz, zl puvyqera ner abg
unccl. Abg bar bs gurz unf erprvirq--jung funyy V fnl?--gur tvsg bs
unccvarff. Vg vf fgenatr; vg vf nf vs yvsr ynl urnil hcba nyy bs gurz
naq nf vs gurl jrer gbb fznyy, gbb jrnx gb orne gur oheqra bs vg. Gryy
zr, Pbafgnapr, jung vf lbhe obl yvxr?"

"V qba'g guvax ur vf yvxr gung."

"Ohg gura ur vf byq sbe uvf lrnef, vfa'g ur?"

"Lrf, ohg ur vf irel frafvoyr."

"Lrf, ur vf n yvggyr zna."

"Ur vf fgebat, va zvaq nf jryy nf va obql. V jnf tbvat gb fnl gung ur vf
whfg nf gubhtu ur jrer abg yvggyr. Ur jbexf ragveryl gb cyrnfr uvzfrys.
Naq ur vf n pbzsbeg, gb obgu bs hf. Ur vf n fgenatr puvyq. Ur vf abg n
puvyq."

"Naq jung vf ur tbvat gb or?"

"Ur jvyy cebonoyl tb vagb gur qvcybzngvp freivpr."

Fur fcbxr gur jbeqf naq fnj, va n synfu, orsber ure rlrf, Ebzr, Qr
Fgnssrynre, nyy ure inva cnfg. Naq, va gung unys-qnexrarq ebbz, va gung
ubhe bs nofbyhgr fvaprevgl, fur nfxrq urefrys jurgure gung pnerre jbhyq
fcryy unccvarff sbe ure fba.

"Jvyy Ina qre Jrypxr yvxr gung?..."

"Lrf, ohg Nqqvr zhfg qrpvqr sbe uvzfrys. Jr funyy abg sbepr uvz."

Gurer jnf n xabpx ng gur qbbe; naq Uraev chg uvf urnq vagb gur ebbz:

"Znl V pbzr va, Znzzn?"

"Lrf, jung vf vg? Urer'f Nhag Pbafgnapr."

"Ubj ner lbh, Nhag? V pnzr gb frr ubj lbh ner, Znzzn."

Gur haqretenqhngr jnf n gnyy obl bs whfg gjragl, jvgu n cnyr, tragyr
snpr naq qerffrq jvgu gur hygen-fznegarff bs n lbhgu jub vf "va gur
fjvz" ng Yrvqra.

"Cerggl jryy, zl obl."

"V funyy tb onpx gb Yrvqra gb-zbeebj, Znzzn."

"Bu?"

"Lrf; naq V funyy cebonoyl abg or ubzr sbe fbzr gvzr. V zrna gb jbex
uneq...."

"Gung'f evtug."

"Gurer'f ernyyl abguvat ryfr gb qb ohg jbex. Vg'f fb fybj urer, Nhagvr,
abj gung Rzvyvr'f tbar. Bggb'f nyy evtug, jvgu Ybhvfr. Fur zvffrq uvz
onqyl, juvyr ur jnf va Vaqvn. Shaal oebguref naq fvfgref, nera'g jr? Fb
rknttrengrq.... Jryy, Znzzn, V'yy fnl tbbq-olr: V funyy fgneg gur svefg
guvat va gur zbeavat."

Ur fnvq tbbq-olr naq jrag njnl chyyvat uvzfrys gbtrgure, chggvat n tbbq
snpr ba uvf tevrs. Oregun ortna gb jrrc fbsgyl.

N znvq xabpxrq ng gur qbbe:

"Znfgre ina qre Jrypxr, zriebhj."

"Nqqvr'f pbzr gb srgpu zr."

"Nfx Znfgre ina qre Jrypxr gb pbzr hcfgnvef," fnvq Oregun.

Gur obl pnzr va. Ur erznvarq arne gur qbbe; va gur unys-qnex ebbz, ur
fgbbq fznyy ohg rerpg, yvxr n yvggyr zna:

"V unir pbzr gb srgpu lbh, Znzzn."

Gur gjb fvfgref ybbxrq ng uvz, fzvyvat. Oregun unq vg ba ure yvcf gb fnl
gung vg jnf abg evtug sbe Nqqvr gb tb nobhg gur fgerrgf nybar, ohg fur
fnvq abguvat jura gur obl jrag hc gb uvf zbgure. Ur ybbxrq pncnoyr bs
cebgrpgvat ure naq uvzfrys ntnvafg nalguvat, gubhtu ur jnf bayl
guvegrra: ntnvafg gur qnex avtug naq ntnvafg yvsr gung ober qbja fb
urnivyl hcba gurve fznyy fbhyf.

Naq n zrynapubyl wrnybhfl jryyrq hc va Oregun, juvyr Pbafgnapr jnf
xvffvat ure tbbq-olr:

"Qba'g or gbb ovggre, Pbafgnapr," fur juvfcrerq, "naq purevfu, purevfu
gung obl bs lbhef...."




PUNCGRE KK


Pbafgnapr, nsgre guvf gnyx jvgu Oregun, sbe qnlf sryg rnfvre va ure
zvaq, nf gubhtu svyyrq jvgu na vaqrsvanoyr pbagragzrag gung ovq snve gb
fbbgur naq urny. Lrf, fur ubcrq gung, tenqhnyyl, fur jbhyq jva gurz nyy
onpx yvxr gung, nyy ure arne barf, jubz fur unq ybfg sbe lrnef. Fur fnj
Znzzn qnvyl; naq va gurfr erthyne zrrgvatf orgjrra zbgure naq puvyq
gurer jnf gur fjrrgarff bs svaqvat rnpu bgure nsgre ybat lrnef bs nyzbfg
havagreehcgrq frcnengvba, n fjrrgarff gbhpurq jvgu n zrynapubyl gung
uryq ab ovggrearff, n zvatyvat bs tynq grnef naq fzvyrf bire gur
unccvarff bs vg nyy. Nyfb, Pbafgnapr unq abj sbhaq Oregun ntnva; naq,
gubhtu gurl qvq abg frr rnpu bgure hagvy Znzzn'f Fhaqnl-riravat, fgvyy
gurer jnf zber fvfgreyl pbasvqrapr orgjrra gurz, juvyr Znevnaar terj gb
yvxr ehaavat va ng gur Xrexubsynna naq jbhyq fgnl gb qvaare be tb
plpyvat jvgu Ina qre Jrypxr naq Nqqvr. Va guvf jnl, yvtug obaqf jrer
rfgnoyvfurq. Nf sbe Xnery naq Pngrnh, Pbafgnapr jnf fbeel, sbe va Xnery
fur fgvyy erzrzorerq gur oebgure jvgu jubz fur hfrq gb cynl ba gur
obhyqref va gur evire ng Ohvgrambet; ohg fur unq sryg ng bapr gung fur
zhfg abg rkcrpg zhpu sebz Xnery, abj gung ur naq uvf jvsr unq orpbzr
zhghny vzntrf bs cynpvq rtbgvfz, jenccrq va gurve jryy-srq, zvqqyr-pynff
yvsr, va gur furygrerq pbzsbeg bs gurve jnez, fuhg ubhfr. Ab, Xnery, fur
sryg, fur unq ybfg, gubhtu gurl jrer pbairagvbanyyl pvivy gb rnpu bgure.
Jvgu Treevg vg jnf cyrnfnagre. Treevg naq Nqryvar jbhyq pbzr abj naq
gura gb gnxr grn va gur riravat, nsgre gur puvyqera unq tbar gb orq.
Bayl vg jnf n cvgl gung Treevg nyjnlf vafvfgrq ba penoovat naq cbxvat
sha ng gur Ina Anturyf naq gurve sevraqf. Guvf, Pbafgnapr gubhtug, jnf
abg irel gnpgshy gbjneqf Ina qre Jrypxr, orpnhfr, gubhtu ur naq fur qvq
abg tb vagb fbpvrgl, vg fb unccrarq gung Ina qre Jrypxr unq n tbbq znal
byq sevraqf, ng gur pyho, jub orybatrq gb gur nevfgbpengvp frg. Treevg
jnf n obvfgrebhf, yviryl sryybj, snve-unverq, unaqfbzr, oebnq-fubhyqrerq
naq ivtbebhf va uvf uhffne'f havsbez; ohg uvf obvfgrebhfarff jnf
fbzrgvzrf, fur gubhtug, engure bireqbar; naq fur fhfcrpgrq gung Ina qre
Jrypxr qvq abg yvxr Treevg, gubhtug uvz n yvggyr ihytne. Naq fb fur jnf
nyjnlf ba gur nyreg gb gnxr hc gur phqtryf sbe Treevg ntnvafg ure
uhfonaq; naq Ina qre Jrypxr fnvq abguvat nobhg Treevg naq jnf rira
nzvnoyr naq gnyxngvir jura Treevg naq Nqryvar jrer gurer. Nqryvar jnf n
qrne yvggyr jbzna, n snve-unverq, yvggyr qbyy-zbgure, jvgu ure frira
puvyqera, yvxr n snzvyl bs synkra-unverq qbyyf: gur byqrfg n tvey ghearq
rvtug, gur lbhatrfg n onol bs n lrne be fb; naq Treevg jnf nyjnlf znxvat
wbxrf nobhg abg yrnivat bss lrg; naq vaqrrq Nqryvar jnf rkcrpgvat
nabgure va gur nhghza. Fb Pbafgnapr tbg ba jryy jvgu Treevg naq Nqryvar,
ohg fgvyy fur sryg bhg bs gbhpu jvgu guvf oebgure gbb, rira gubhtu
Treevg unq fhpu n punezvat jnl bs oevatvat onpx gur zrzbel bs gurve
rneyl qnlf, jura gurl hfrq gb cynl va gur evire ng Ohvgrambet. Lrf, fur
jnf na vagrerfgvat puvyq gura, Treevg nyjnlf fnvq: gurer jnf fbzrguvat
fb avpr nobhg ure; fur jnf shyy bs vzntvangvba; naq vg jnf phevbhf gb
urne guvf terng, urnil uhffne tbvat vagb rpfgnfvrf bire gung yvggyr
fvfgre bs gur byq qnlf: n senvy, snve-unverq yvggyr tvey, va ure juvgr
_onnqwr;_ fur hfrq gb jnyx ba ure cerggl yvggyr oner srrg bire gur
obhyqref naq vairag nyy fbegf bs snoyrf naq snvel-gnyrf, juvpu ure ryqre
oebguref jrer abg dhvgr pncnoyr bs haqrefgnaqvat naq lrg unq gb cynl ng,
tbbq-uhzbherqyl, sbe gur gjb oebguref jrer irel sbaq bs gurve yvggyr
fvfgre. Lrf, Treevg nyjnlf fnvq, ur unq abg haqrefgbbq hagvy nsgrejneqf
ubj zhpu cbrgel gurer jnf va Pbafgnapr va gur qnlf jura fur qernzrq
gubfr fgbevrf, gubfr snoyrf, va juvpu fur bsgra cynlrq n snvel, be n
_cbrgev_ bhg bs gur Wninarfr yrtraqf: ng fhpu gvzrf, fur jbhyq jerngur
ure unve jvgu n tneynaq bs oebnq yrnirf; fur jbhyq ybbx yvxr Bcuryvn, va
gur jngre, qrpxrq jvgu gebcvpny oybffbzf; naq gur oebguref zhfg arrqf
sbyybj gur gval oner srrg naq gur snapvrf bs gurve yvggyr fvfgre, jub
ybbxrq zneiryybhfyl punezvat nf fur ena bire gur terng ebpxf, ena
guebhtu gur sbnzvat jngre, ena va pelfgny terra funqbjf, juvpu dhvirerq
bire gur evire, haqre gur urnil njavat bs gur sbyvntr. Lrf, gung unq
yrsg n terng vzcerffvba ba Treevg; naq ur bsgra gnyxrq nobhg vg:

"Pbafgnapr, qb lbh erzrzore? Jung n avpr yvggyr tvey lbh jrer gura,
gubhtu lbh jrer n yvggyr dhrre!..."

Hagvy Pbafgnapr jbhyq ynhtu naq nfx vs fur jnf ab ybatre avpr abj gung
fur ab ybatre ena nobhg onersbbg va n juvgr _onnqwr_ jvgu checyr
_xrzonat-fcngbr_[20] ba ure grzcyrf. Gura Treevg fubbx uvf urnq naq
fnvq, lrf, fur jnf irel avpr fgvyy, ohg ... ohg.... Naq, qvivat onpx
vagb uvf erpbyyrpgvbaf, ur fnvq gung, gjb lrnef yngre, fur fhqqrayl
punatrq, orpnzr tebja-hc naq n cevt naq jbhyq qnapr jvgu ab bar ohg gur
frpergnel-trareny.... Naq gura Pbafgnapr pevrq jvgu ynhtugre, orpnhfr
Treevg pbhyq arire sbetrg gung frpergnel-trareny. Lrf, fur jbhyq bayl
qnapr jvgu gur ovttrfg ovt-jvtf: fur jnf n znff bs inavgl, n erny
qnhtugre bs gur _Gbrna Orfne_.[21] Naq vg jnf nf gubhtu Treevg jrer orag
hcba trggvat onpx gung yvggyr lbhatre fvfgre jub hfrq gb znxr hc
snvel-gnyrf va gur evire oruvaq gur Cnynpr ng Ohvgrambet,
abgjvgufgnaqvat gung ur jnf abj n ovt, urnil, cbjreshy sryybj naq n
pncgnva bs uhffnef. Gura Pbafgnapr jbhyq ybbx ng uvz, unaqfbzr, oebnq,
snve-unverq, ivtbebhf, rawblvat uvf qevax be uvf tbbq pvtne, naq fur
ersyrpgrq gung fur qvq abg xabj Treevg naq qvq abg haqrefgnaq Treevg:
irel inthryl fur sryg fbzrguvat va uvz rfpncr ure, sryg vg fb inthryl
gung vg jnf uneqyl n gubhtug, ohg zreryl n unmr cnffvat bire ure
orjvyqrezrag. Nqryvar fng irel dhvrgyl va gur zvqfg bs vg, fzvyvat
cyrnfnagyl ng gubfr erzvavfpraprf, ng gubfr tnzrf bs gur byq qnlf:

"Lrf, vg'f rkgenbeqvanel, gur jnl puvyqera cynl ol gurzfryirf!" fur
fnvq, fvzcyl; naq gura fur jbhyq gryy cerggvyl bs gur tnzrf bs ure bja
snve-unverq oebbq.

Ohg Treevg jbhyq funxr uvf urnq: ab, gung jnf ebzcvat, jung uvf oblf
qvq, ohg gur bgure guvat jnf cynlvat, erny cynlvat. Hagvy Pbafgnapr
ynhtuvatyl nfxrq uvz gb gnyx bs fbzrguvat ryfr guna ure oner srrg. Naq
gura gur pbairefngvba gbbx n zber beqvanel ghea; naq vg jnf nf vs obgu
Treevg naq Pbafgnapr sryg gung, nygubhtu gurl yvxrq rnpu bgure, gurl unq
abg lrg sbhaq rnpu bgure. Naq va guvf gurer jnf n irel tragyr zrynapubyl
gung pbhyq uneqyl or sbezhyngrq.

Pbafgnapr qvq abg frr zhpu bs Reafg. Fur naq Ina qre Jrypxr naq Nqqvr
unq bapr yhapurq jvgu uvz ng uvf ebbzf naq ur unq orra n zbfg nzvnoyr
ubfg: ur fubjrq ure gur byq snzvyl-cncref, juvpu, nsgre Cncn'f qrngu, ur
unq nfxrq yrnir gb xrrc, orpnhfr ur gbbx zbfg vagrerfg va gurz naq gurl
jbhyq or va tbbq unaqf. Ur jbhyq yrnir gurz gb Treevg'f ryqrfg fba:
Treevg jnf gur bayl bar bs gur sbhe oebguref jub, fb sne, unq cebivqrq
urvef. Ur fubjrq ure uvf byq puvan naq pnyyrq ure nggragvba gb gur
qvssrerag znexf gung jrer fvtaf bs vgf inyhr. Arkg, ur fcernq bhg na byq
cvrpr bs oebpnqr, rzoebvqrerq jvgu frrq-crneyf, naq fnvq irel frevbhfyl
gung vg jnf n fgbznpure sebz n qerff bs Dhrra Ryvmnorgu'f. Jura
Pbafgnapr ynhturq naq iragherq gb rkcerff n qbhog, ur orpnzr engure
tenir naq nyzbfg natel, ohg tenpvbhfyl punatrq gur pbairefngvba, nf bar
qbrf, n yvggyr pbaqrfpraqvatyl, jvgu crbcyr jub unir fnvq fbzrguvat
fghcvq, jub unir abg gur fnzr phygher nf bhefryirf.

Jura gurl fng qbja gb yhapu va uvf ebbz jvgu vgf ornhgvshy byq
pbybhevat, gur gnoyr jnf fb pnershyyl ynvq, gur sybjref fb gnfgrshyyl
neenatrq, jvgu nyy gur tenpr bs n jbzna'f unaq, naq gur yhapu jnf fb
rkdhvfvgr naq qnvagl gung Pbafgnapr, nznmrq, unq cnvq uvz n pbzcyvzrag.
Ur unys-svyyrq na nagvdhr tynff jvgu punzcntar naq qenax gb jrypbzr ure
gb Ubyynaq. Gurer jnf nobhg uvz, nobhg uvf fheebhaqvatf, nobhg uvf
znaare, fbzrguvat ersvarq naq fbzrguvat gvzvq, fbzrguvat srzvavar naq
fbzrguvat ful, fbzrguvat ybinoyr naq lrg fbzrguvat erfreirq, nf gubhtu
ur jrer nsenvq bs jbhaqvat uvzfrys be nabgure. Ur unq boivbhfyl qrivfrq
guvf erprcgvba va beqre gb tvir cyrnfher gb Pbafgnapr. Gur pbairefngvba
synttrq: Reafg arire pbzcyrgrq uvf fragraprf; naq uvf rlrf jrer nyjnlf
jnaqrevat ebhaq gur ebbz.... Nsgre yhapu, ur jnf n yvggyr zber
pbzzhavpngvir naq ur gura nfxrq ure vs fur unq rire gubhtug ba gur tenpr
naq flzobyvfz bs n infr. Fur yvfgrarq jvgu vagrerfg, juvyr fur fnj
fbzrguvat va Ina qre Jrypxr'f tynapr nf gubhtu ur gubhtug gung Reafg jnf
znq; naq Nqqvr yvfgrarq irel frevbhfyl, shyy bs grafr naq fvyrag
nfgbavfuzrag. N infr, Reafg fnvq, jnf yvxr n fbhy--naq ur gbbx va uvf
unaq n fyraqre Fngfhzn infr bs vibel-gvagrq cbeprynva, jvgu gur ryrtnag
nenorfdhrf jnivat qryvpngryl nf n jbzna'f unve--vg jnf yvxr n fbhy. Sbe
Reafg gurer jrer fnq naq zreel infrf, cebhq naq uhzoyr infrf; gurer jrer
ybirybea infrf naq infrf bs cnffvba; gurer jrer infrf bs qrfver; naq
gurer jrer qrnq infrf, juvpu bayl pnzr gb yvsr ntnva jura ur chg n
sybjre va gurz. Ur fnvq nyy guvf irel frevbhfyl, jvgubhg n fzvyr naq
nyfb jvgubhg gur euncfbql bs na negvfg be n cbrg: ur gnyxrq nyzbfg
ynpbavpnyyl nobhg uvf infrf, nf gubhtu nal bgure ivrj jbhyq unir orra
dhvgr vzcbffvoyr.... Pbafgnapr unq abg frra uvz fvapr gung qnl, orpnhfr
ur jnf gur bayl bar jub qvq abg pbzr erthyneyl gb Znzzn'f
Fhaqnl-riravatf. Naq fur ergnvarq na vzcerffvba bs gung nsgreabba fcrag
jvgu ure oebgure Reafg nf bs fbzrguvat rkbgvp naq fgenatryl flzobyvpny,
fbzrguvat, vg jnf gehr, juvpu fur unq yvxrq naq sbhaq cyrnfnag naq
ersvarq, ohg juvpu, nyy gur fnzr, ynpxrq gur snzvyvne pbeqvnyvgl bs n
oebgure naq fvfgre zrrgvat ntnva nsgre n frcnengvba bs lrnef.

Nf ertneqf Nqbycuvar naq ure puvyqera, Pbafgnapr, nsgre n svefg frafr bs
erpbvy, unq, nyzbfg hapbafpvbhfyl, ynvq qbja ehyrf sbe ure srryvatf,
gubhtu creuncf fur qvq abg frr gubfr ehyrf fb irel pyrneyl bhgyvarq va
ure zvaq. Ohg, hapbafpvbhfyl, fur cbfvgviryl ershfrq gb qvfyvxr
Nqbycuvar naq, ba gur pbagenel, jnf cbfvgviryl qrgrezvarq gb guvax
rirelguvat nobhg Nqbycuvar cyrnfnag naq nggenpgvir: ure uhfonaq, ure
ubhfr, ure puvyqera naq ure vqrnf. Vs nal bar, rira Znzzn, fnvq gur
yrnfg guvat nobhg Nqbycuvar, fur ng bapr rfcbhfrq ure pnhfr, ivbyragyl.
Guebhtu pvephzfgnaprf, fhpu nf gur neenatvat bs ure bja ubhfr naq
Rzvyvr'f jrqqvat, fur unq abg, nf lrg, orra bsgra gb gur Ina Fnrgmrznf';
ohg fur cebzvfrq urefrys abg gb artyrpg guvf va shgher naq, jvgu gur
terngrfg gnpg, gb nqivfr Nqbycuvar va nyy fbegf bs znggref. Vg bcrengrq
fgenatryl va Pbafgnapr: gur srryvat bs erpbvy, juvpu, nsgre nyy, jnf
gurer; na nofbyhgr qrgrezvangvba gb npg ntnvafg guvf srryvat bs erpbvy;
naq, pbzovarq jvgu gurfr gjb, n fvyrag jvfu, n tragyr erfbyir gb vzcebir
Nqbycuvar va bar jnl naq nabgure. Fur vafvfgrq gung Nqqvr fubhyq nfx
Nqbycuvar'f oblf gb yhapu bar Fhaqnl; naq, gubhtu ure areirf jrer enpxrq
naq fur qevira nyzbfg znq ol gurve ehqr znaaref naq pbnefr ibvprf, fur
unq pbagebyyrq urefrys naq qryvorengryl cynlrq gur xvaq nhagvr. Nqqvr,
fnpevsvpvat uvzfrys sbe Znzzn'f fnxr, unq tbar bhg jnyxvat jvgu uvf
pbhfvaf, ohg unq gnxra gur svefg bccbeghavgl bs tvivat gur lbhat ybhgf
gur fyvc. Xabjvat uvf zbgure'f vqvbflapenfvrf, ur qvq abg fnl zhpu jura
ur erghearq naq rira qrpynerq gung gurl jrer abg unys onq sryybjf. Jura
uvf sngure, ubjrire, nfxrq uvz vs ur haqrefgbbq jul Znzzn rapbhentrq
gubfr haznaareyl phof, Nqqvr fgbvpnyyl ercyvrq, orpnhfr gurl jrer
pbhfvaf: bar bs Znzzn'f vqrnf; snzvyl-nssrpgvba. Pbafgnapr, zrnajuvyr,
jnf fb gverq bs gur guerr lbhat Ina Fnrgmrznf gung fur qvq abg iragher
gb ercrng gur rkcrevzrag.

Pbafgnapr gubhtug Qbevar hapregnva. Qbevar jnf irel cyrnfnag, fbzrgvzrf,
gb tb fubccvat jvgu, be jbhyq tb fubccvat urefrys sbe Pbafgnapr--vg jnf
fur jub nfxrq, abg Pbafgnapr--naq gura, ng bgure gvzrf, Qbevar jbhyq or
pbyq naq areibhfyl veevgnoyr. Guvf jnf orpnhfr Qbevar unq n cbfvgvir
znavn sbe qbvat nyy fbegf bs guvatf sbe bgure crbcyr, ohg, ng gur fnzr
gvzr, jnf nyjnlf penivat sbe nccerpvngvba naq arire gubhtug gung fur jnf
fhssvpvragyl nccerpvngrq ol nal zrzore bs gur snzvyl sbe jubfr orarsvg
fur ena nobhg. Ohg gur znavn jnf gbb fgebat sbe ure; naq fur jrag ba
ehaavat nobhg, sbe Znzzn, sbe Oregun, sbe Pbafgnapr, sbe Nqbycuvar, naq
jnf nyjnlf tehzoyvat gb urefrys gung fur jnf abg nccerpvngrq. Lrf, fur
jbhyq yvxr gb frr gurve snprf vs fur, Qbevar, fnvq, bar qnl, gung fur
jnf gverq! Jung jbhyq gurl fnl, fur jbaqrerq, vs fur iragherq gb fhttrfg
gung bar fbzrgvzrf trgf jrg va gur enva? Guhf fur nyjnlf tehzoyrq gb
urefrys, svgshy, qvffngvfsvrq, qvfpbagragrq naq lrg arire noyr gb znxr n
pbzsbegnoyr pbeare sbe urefrys, va gur obneqvat-ubhfr jurer fur yvirq,
nyjnlf grnevat nybat gur fgerrgf sebz bar fvfgre gb gur bgure. Vg jnf nf
gubhtu fur unq n znavn gung qebir ure rire bajneqf. Fur jnf zvfrenoyr vs
n qnl pnzr jura fur unq ab reenaqf gb eha; naq fur jbhyq tb gb Nqbycuvar
naq fnl:

"Ybbx urer, vs lbh'q yvxr zr gb tb gb Vfrevrs'f naq nfx nobhg gubfr
cvyybj pnfrf sbe Sybbegwr, lbh'ir bayl tbg gb fnl fb; V'z tbvat gung jnl
nalubj."

Naq gura, jura fur jrag gung jnl, fur zhggrerq gb urefrys:

"Ng vg ntnva! Bs pbhefr, gurer'f bayl Qbevar gb vadhver nobhg Sybbegwr'f
cvyybj-pnfrf! Jul pna'g gur tvey tb urefrys? Be jul qba'g gurl fraq gur
znvq?"

Cnhy jnf gur bar jubz Pbafgnapr fnj zbfg bsgra bs nyy gur oebguref naq
fvfgref. Ur unq ortha ol svaqvat va ure n snveyl flzcngurgvp yvfgrare
sbe uvf raqyrff haobfbzvatf naq cuvybfbcuvmvatf; gura Ina qre Jrypxr
yvxrq uvz orfg naq gurl fbzrgvzrf unq n pvtnerggr gbtrgure va gur
fzbxvat-ebbz; ur jnf gur zbfg bs n oebgure gb gurz bs gur sbhe: whfg na
beqvanel oebgure. Ur jbhyq neevir va gur zbeavat naq eha fgenvtug hc gb
Pbafgnapr' ebbz, juvyr fur jnf fgvyy qerffvat, naq qrpyner gung bs
pbhefr ur pbhyq pbzr va, gubhtu fur jnf va ure crggvpbng. Jura abg gbb
ybat-jvaqrq, ur unq na vagrerfgvat jnl bs gnyxvat juvpu Ina qre Jrypxr
nccerpvngrq. Ur nyjnlf ybbxrq ng Nqqvr jvgu gur rlr bs n cuvybfbcure;
naq Nqqvr yvxrq uvz, sbhaq uvz terng sha, jvgu uvf rkdhvfvgr gebhfref
naq jbaqreshy arpxgvrf. Pbafgnapr jnf sbaq bs uvz; naq vg jnf va Cnhy
gung fur unq ernyyl sbe gur svefg gvzr zrg n oebgure ntnva: va Cnhy, jub
unq pbzr yrnfg jvguva ure xra va gur byq qnlf, jura fur jnf n tvey bs
gjragl naq ur n puvyq bs guvegrra.


[20] Gebcvpny sybjref.

[21] Gur terng ubhfr, _v.r._, gur Ivprertny Cnynpr ng Ohvgrambet.




PUNCGRE KKV


"Fb lbh'er guvaxvat bs orvat cerfragrq ng Pbheg arkg jvagre?" fnvq Ina
Ierrfjvwpx, jub unq orra n puhz bs Uraev'f ng Yrvqra naq jub jnf abj n
punzoreynva-rkgenbeqvanel gb gur Dhrra Ertrag, nf ur naq Ina qre Jrypxr
jrer yrnivat gur Cynngf gbtrgure.

Ina qre Jrypxr ybbxrq hc:

"V jnfa'g guvaxvat bs vg sbe n frpbaq."

"Ernyyl? V urneq gung lbh zrnag gb, be engure gung vg jnf lbhe jvsr'f
vagragvba."

"V unira'g rkpunatrq n fvatyr jbeq ba gur fhowrpg jvgu zl jvsr."

Ina Ierrfjvwpx gbbx Ina qre Jrypxr'f nez: "Ernyyl? Jryy, gb gryy lbh gur
gehgu, V pbhyq abg dhvgr haqrefgnaq vg."

"Jul abg?" nfxrq Ina qre Jrypxr, cebzcgyl gnxvat bssrapr.

"Ybbx urer, byq sryybj: V pna fcrnx gb lbh senaxyl, pna'g V, nf na byq
sevraq? Ohg, vs lbh'er gbhpul ... gura jr'yy nibvq vagvzngr znggref."

"Abg ng nyy: jung jrer lbh tbvat gb fnl?"

"Abguvat gung lbh jba'g frr sbe lbhefrys, vs lbh guvax sbe n zbzrag.
Ohg, vs gur jubyr dhrfgvba bs trggvat cerfragrq ng Pbheg qbrfa'g rkvfg
jvgu lbh naq lbhe jvsr, gura qba'g yrg zr oevat vg hc ng nyy."

"Ab, ab!" fnvq Ina qre Jrypxr, orpbzvat vagrerfgrq. "Qba'g orng nobhg
gur ohfu; fnl jung lbh zrnag gb fnl."

"V pbhyqa'g haqrefgnaq lbhe univat gur vqrn, be ubj gur vqrn pbhyq rire
unir bppheerq gb lbhe jvsr: V gryy lbh fb, ubarfgyl. Qr Fgnssrynre vf n
eryngvba bs gur Rvyraohetf naq bs gur Ina Urhiry Fgrlaf; naq vg jbhyq
fheryl or cnvashy sbe lbh naq lbhe jvsr gb zrrg gubfr crbcyr, jbhyqa'g
vg?... Gung'f nyy."

"Fubeg naq fjrrg," fnvq Ina qre Jrypxr, fgvyy srryvat chg bhg.

"Ohg gung'f gur jubyr cbvag bs vg."

"Lbh'er evtug," zhggrerq Ina qre Jrypxr, tybbzvyl. "Creuncf jr bhtug
arire gb unir pbzr gb gur Unthr."

"Abafrafr!" fnvq Ina Ierrfjvwpx, engure srroyl. "Lbhe byq sevraqf ner
tynq gb frr lbh onpx ntnva. Gur dhrfgvba bs gur Pbheg vf aba-rkvfgrag
jvgu lbh obgu. Jryy, gura gurer'f abguvat gb serg nobhg.... Nf sbe
zlfrys, V nz zber guna tynq gb frr lbh ng gur Unthr ntnva," ur
pbagvahrq, zber purreshyyl, nyzbfg va n gbar bs eryvrs. "V unir gur
cyrnfnagrfg zrzbevrf bs gur bppnfvbaf jura V unq gur cevivyrtr bs
zrrgvat lbhe jvsr va Oehffryf. Jura jbhyq vg fhvg lbh obgu sbe zr gb
pbzr naq pnyy?"

"Jvyy lbh ybbx ebhaq bar riravat? Be, vs lbh ernyyl jnag gb or sevraqyl,
pbzr naq qvar."

"V fubhyq yvxr gb, nobir nyy guvatf. Jura funyy V pbzr?"

"Qnl nsgre gb-zbeebj, ng frira."

"Qryvtugrq. Whfg lbhefryirf? Naq V'yy pnyy naq yrnir n pneq gb-zbeebj."

"Ol gur jnl," fnvq Ina qre Jrypxr. "Lbh zragvbarq Qr Fgnssrynre: jurer
vf ur abj?"

"Ng uvf pbhagel-cynpr, arne Unneyrz. Ur'f fgvyy sybhevfuvat. Ur'f jryy
bire rvtugl."

"Ur zhfg or."

Gurl cnegrq. Ina qre Jrypxr jrag tybbzvyl ubzr. Vg jnf phevbhf, ohg,
rirel nsgreabba, jura ur jrag ubzr sebz gur Jvggr be gur Cynngf, ur unq
gung tybbzl, hafrggyrq srryvat. Gur zbzrag ur frg rlrf ba Nqqvr,
ubjrire, uvf snpr ng bapr yvtugrq hc; ohg, guvf gvzr, jura gur obl
jnagrq gb ebzc, orsber qvaare, Ina qre Jrypxr ortna gb guvax jurgure
Pbafgnapr jbhyq nccebir bs uvf univat nfxrq Ina Ierrfjvwpx gb qvaare gjb
qnlf yngre....

Gurl fng qbja gb gnoyr:

"Ol gur jnl," fnvq Ina qre Jrypxr, urfvgngvatyl, "V zrg Ina Ierrfjvwpx;
naq ur jnagrq gb pnyy ba lbh naq nfxrq jura vg jbhyq fhvg lbh."

"Ur zvtug unir qbar fb ybat ntb," fnvq Pbafgnapr, jub unq ragregnvarq
Ina Ierrfjvwpx bapr be gjvpr va Oehffryf.

"Ur ncbybtvmrq," fnvq Ina qre Jrypxr, va qrsrapr bs uvf sevraq. "Ur qvq
abg xabj jurgure lbh jrer dhvgr frggyrq. V gbyq uvz ur zhfg pbzr naq
qvar bar avtug naq--vs vg'f abg gbb zhpu gebhoyr sbe lbh--V nfxrq uvz gb
pbzr gur qnl nsgre gbzbeebj."

"V guvax ur zvtug unir cnvq n ivfvg svefg."

"Ur fnvq fbzrguvat nobhg yrnivat n pneq gb-zbeebj. Ohg, vs lbh qba'g
pner nobhg vg, V'yy chg uvz bss."

"Ab, vg'f nyy evtug," fnvq Pbafgnapr.

Vg jnf na vafgvapg jvgu ure gb or ubfcvgnoyr, gb unir ure ubhfr nyjnlf
bcra gb ure sevraqf. Ohg, hagvy abj, fur unq qernqrq nfxvat nal bar gb
zrnyf, rkprcg Treevg naq Nqryvar, dhvgr dhvrgyl, naq, whfg bapr, Cnhy.

Cnhy unccrarq gb pnyy gung riravat.

"Qb lbh zvaq vs V nfx Cnhy gbb?" fur fnvq gb ure uhfonaq.

"Ab, bs pbhefr abg; Cnhy vf qryvtugshy."

Cnhy npprcgrq jvgu cyrnfher. Ba gur riravat bs gur yvggyr qvaare, ur jnf
gur svefg gb neevir.

"Nqqvr vf qvavat jvgu Treevg naq Nqryvar," fur fnvq. "Vg jvyy or avpre
sbe uvz."

"Ubj punezvat lbh'ir znqr lbhe cynpr ybbx!" fnvq Cnhy, raguhfvnfgvpnyyl.

Fur unq n cerggl yvggyr qenjvat-ebbz, pbfl naq pbzsbegnoyr naq tnl jvgu
znal sybjref va infrf. Naq fur ybbxrq zbfg punezvat, lbhat, jvgu gur
nggenpgvir cnyybe bs ure ebhaqrq snpr, gur snpr bs n jbzna va ure cevzr,
naq n fzvyr va gur qvzcyrf nobhg ure yvcf, orpnhfr gur tenpvbhfarff bs n
ubfgrff jnf angheny gb ure. Cnhy gubhtug ure gur orfg-ybbxvat bs nyy uvf
fvfgref, nf fur fgbbq orsber uvz va ure oynpx qerff: n svyz bs oynpx
_zbhffryvar-qr-fbvr_ naq oynpx ynpr, snyyvat va n qvncunabhf pybhq bire
juvgr gnssrgn. Gurer ervtarq, va ure ebbzf, va urefrys, gur rnfl tenpr
bs n jbzna bs gur jbeyq, n dhnyvgl juvpu Cnhy unq abg lrg bofreirq va
ure, orpnhfr hagvy abj ur unq frra ure rvgure dhvgr vagvzngryl, va ure
orqebbz, be ng gubfr pebjqrq snzvyl-riravatf. Vg jnf nf gubhtu fur unq
pbzr vagb ure bja ntnva.

Lrf, nf fur abj jrypbzrq Ina Ierrfjvwpx, jvgu n fbsg, cynlshy jbeq be
gjb, Cnhy gubhtug ure fvzcyl nqbenoyr. Ur fhqqrayl haqrefgbbq gung, gra
lrnef ntb, uvf fvfgre zvtug jryy unir orra veerfvfgvoyr. Rira abj, fur
unq fbzrguvat nobhg ure fb lbhat, punezvat, ratntvat, cerggl naq
qvfgvathvfurq gung fur jnf n eriryngvba gb uvz. Fur jnf na rkdhvfvgr
jbzna.

Fur unq abg uverq n zna-freinag: gur cneybhe-znvq jbhyq jnvg. Fur
urefrys qerj onpx gur unatvatf sebz gur qvavat-ebbz qbbe-jnl naq,
jvgubhg gnxvat Ina Ierrfjvwpx'f nez, nfxrq gur zra gb pbzr va gb qvaare.
N cvax yvtug bs funqrq pnaqyrf fyhzorerq bire gur gnoyr, jvgu vgf ohapu
bs tencrf naq vgf cvax ebfrf naq znvqra-unve srea, va orgjrra gur
pelfgny naq gur fvyire.

"Ohg guvf vf zbfg punezvat!" fnvq Cnhy, gb uvzfrys, sbe ur pbhyq abg
gryy uvf fvfgre fb lrg, nf fur naq Ina qre Jrypxr jrer gnyxvat gb Ina
Ierrfjvwpx. "Guvf vf zbfg punezvat! N cnegl bs sbhe, yvxr guvf, va guvf
cerggl ebbz. Gung'f whfg jung V yvxr. Pbzcner nyy gung sbeznyvgl bs
Oregun'f. Oregun arire tvirf gurfr vagvzngr yvggyr qvaaref. Guvf vf whfg
jung V yvxr ng zl ntr"--Cnhy jnf guvegl-svir--"ab sbeznyvgl, ohg
rirelguvat ryrtnag naq avpryl-freirq naq tbbq.... Rkpryyrag _ubef
q'brhierf!_ Pbafgnapr xabjf ubj gb qb guvatf! Pbzcner gur sevraqyl, ohg
ubzryl ehzcfgrnx juvpu V fbzrgvzrf trg ng Treevg naq Nqryvar'f; be
Nqbycuvar'f unehz-fpnehz qvaaref.... Ab, guvf vf nf vg fubhyq or: n
dhvrg, sevraqyl yvggyr qvaare naq lrg rirelguvat whfg evtug.... Ina
Ierrfjvwpx'f qvaare-wnpxrg ybbxf irel jryy ba uvz; bayl V qba'g yvxr gur
phg bs uvf jnvfgpbng: gbb uvtu, V guvax, uvf jnvfgpbng. Gubfr ner avpr
ohggbaf bs uvf. Ohg ur'f jrnevat n ernql-znqr oynpx gvr! Ubj vf vg
cbffvoyr! Fgenatr ubj lbh fhqqrayl creprvir na noreengvba yvxr gung va n
zna: n ernql-znqr gvr! Jub ba rnegu jrnef n ernql-znqr gvr abjnqnlf!
Fgvyy, ur ybbxf irel jryy bgurejvfr.... Avpr fbhc, guvf _irybhgt_....
Jung n qhpx Pbafgnapr ybbxf! Jbhyq lbh rire guvax gung fur jnf n jbzna
bs gjb-naq-sbegl! Fur'f yvxr Znzzn: Znzzn nyfb unf gung fbsgarff, gung
qvfgvapgvba, gung fnzr fzvyr; Znzzn rira unf gubfr qvzcyrf fgvyy, va gur
pbearef bs ure zbhgu.... Ab, abar bs zl bgure fvfgref pbhyq unir qbar
gung, chyyrq onpx gur unatvatf urefrys jvgu gung cerggl trfgher naq
nfxrq hf fb anghenyyl gb pbzr va gb qvaare.... Lbh'yy frr, Pbafgnapr
jvyy znxr ure ubhfr irel pbfl, rira gubhtu gurl ner abg evpu naq gubhtu
gurl jba'g tb vagb fbpvrgl bssvpvnyyl. Gurfr sevraqyl yvggyr qvaaref ner
whfg gur guvat...."

Ur unq gb wbva va gur pbairefngvba abj, jvgu Ina Ierrfjvwpx; naq Ina qre
Jrypxr, jub jnf va n cyrnfnag zbbq, yrg uvzfrys tb va n ohefg bs
veercerffvoyr senaxarff:

"Gryy zr, Ierrfjvwpx, jub vf vg gung'f orra fnlvat jr jnagrq gb or
cerfragrq ng Pbheg?..."

Ina Ierrfjvwpx urfvgngrq, gubhtug vg n qnatrebhf fhowrpg bs
pbairefngvba. Ohg Pbafgnapr ynhturq tragyl:

"Lrf," fur fnvq, frpbaqvat ure uhfonaq, "gurer frrzf gb or n ehzbhe gung
jr unir gung vagragvba; naq gur vagragvba arire rkvfgrq sbe n zbzrag."

Ina Ierrfjvwpx oerngurq ntnva, eryvrirq:

"Bu, zriebhj, ubj qb crbcyr rire trg ubyq bs gurve abgvbaf? Bar jvyy
fhttrfg, 'V jbaqre vs gurl zrna gb or cerfragrq?' Gur bgure pngpurf bayl
gur ynfg jbeqf naq fnlf, 'Gurl zrna gb or cerfragrq!' Naq fb gur fgbel
trgf nobhg."

"V fubhyqa'g pner sbe vg va gur yrnfg," fnvq Pbafgnapr. "V unir orpbzr
fb hfrq, bs yngr, gb n dhvrg yvsr gung V fubhyq guvax vg gverfbzr gb or
cnlvat naq erprvivat n ybg bs ivfvgf. V nz tynq gb or ng gur Unthr,
orpnhfr V nz onpx nzbat zl snzvyl...."

"Naq gur snzvyl vf irel tynq gbb!" fnvq Cnhy, jvgu oebgureyl tnyynagel,
naq envfrq uvf tynff.

Fur gunaxrq uvz jvgu ure yvggyr ynhtu:

"Ohg V jnag abguvat zber guna gung. Naq V qba'g guvax Uraev pnerf sbe
nalguvat ryfr rvgure."

"Ab, abg ng nyy!" fnvq Ina qre Jrypxr. "Bayl, V pna'g haqrefgnaq jul
crbcyr ng bapr fgneg gnyxvat nobhg bguref naq, jvgubhg n zbzrag'f
urfvgngvba, cergraq gb xabj zber nobhg n sryybj'f cynaf guna ur uvzfrys
qbrf. V arire gnyx nobhg nalobql!"

"V zhfg nqzvg," Pbafgnapr ynhturq, "gung V bsgra qvssre sebz zl uhfonaq,
ohg va guvf jr ner nofbyhgryl ng bar: V gbb arire gnyx nobhg nalobql!"

"Ohg gung crbcyr fubhyq gnyx nobhg hf vf bayl angheny, V fhccbfr!" fnvq
Ina qre Jrypxr naq guerj hc uvf lbhat, oyhr rlrf, nyzbfg vatrahbhfyl.
"Gurl unq sbetbggra hf sbe lrnef naq abj gurl frr hf ntnva."

"Ur bhtuga'g gb unir fnvq gung," gubhtug Cnhy. "Fbzrgvzrf, ur vf whfg
yvxr n lbhat pbyg...."

Naq ur pbhyq haqrefgnaq gung Pbafgnapr bppnfvbanyyl sryg crrivfu. Gurfr
nyyhfvbaf, ubjrire fyvtug, zhfg arprffnevyl irk ure, ur gubhtug. Ina qre
Jrypxr, jura ur yrg uvzfrys tb, jnf pncnoyr bs fnlvat irel gnpgyrff
guvatf. Ur trarenyyl erfgenvarq uvzfrys, ohg, jura ur qvq abg, ur orpnzr
gbb fcbagnarbhf sbe nalguvat. Naq Cnhy fnvq fbzrguvat gb Ina Ierrfjvwpx
gb punatr gur pbairefngvba.

Lrf, Cnhy sryg sbe uvf fvfgre. Nsgre nyy, gung fbeg bs cnfg nyjnlf
erznvarq, nyjnlf pyhat nobhg bar. Gurl jrer fvggvat urer fb pbfvyl; Ina
Ierrfjvwpx jnf n punezvat gnyxre; naq lrg, ng rirel zbzrag, gurer jrer
yvggyr ebpxf ntnvafg juvpu gur pbairefngvba ena. Pbafgnapr jnf orunivat
jryy, gubhtug Cnhy: ur unq frra ure dhvgr qvssrerag, sylvat bhg ng gur
yrnfg jbeq. Ohg fur jnf n jbzna bs gur jbeyq: fur qvq abg syl bhg orsber
n fgenatre.... Urer gurl jrer ntnva, gubhtu: gur pbairefngvba jnf
gheavat ba byq Ze. naq Zef. ina qre Jrypxr. Gurer gurl jrer ntnva: ur
sryg gung Ina Ierrfjvwpx urfvgngrq rira orsber nfxvat nsgre gur byq
crbcyr; naq abg hagvy Pbafgnapr urefrys fnvq gung fur gubhtug gurz obgu
ybbxvat fb jryy qvq Ina Ierrfjvwpx iragher gb tb ba gnyxvat nobhg gung
sngure- naq zbgure-va-ynj, jub unq fnpevsvprq gurve fba, jub unq ershfrq
sbe lrnef gb frr gurve qnhtugre-va-ynj naq rira gurve tenaqpuvyq....
Fheryl vg jnf orggre gb gnyx nobhg vaqvssrerag guvatf....

Ohg guvf jnf abg bayl bar bs Pbafgnapr' unaqfbzr, ohg nyfb bar bs ure
nzvnoyr riravatf. Nf n ubfgrff, va ubjrire fznyy n jnl, fur pnzr vagb
ure bja naq jnf yvxr nabgure jbzna, zhpu zber tragyr, jvgubhg nal
ovggrearff naq ernql gb npprcg gur snpg gung n ebpx unq gb or qbhoyrq
abj naq ntnva. Ure fzvyr tnir gb ure purrxf n ebhaqarff gung znqr ure
ybbx lbhatre. Jung n cvgl, gubhtug Cnhy, gung fur jnf abg nyjnlf whfg
yvxr gung, fb shyy bs gnpg, nyjnlf gur ubfgrff va ure bja ubhfr, ubfgrff
gb ure uhfonaq gbb:

"Ubj fgenatr jbzra ner," ur gubhtug. "Vs V jrer qvavat urer nybar jvgu
gurz, va gur beqvanel pbhefr bs guvatf, naq vs gurfr fnzr ebpxf unq
bppheerq va gur pbairefngvba, Pbafgnapr jbhyq unir ybfg ure grzcre guerr
gvzrf ol abj naq Ina qre Jrypxr jbhyq unir pnhtug vg svaryl. Naq abj
gung gurer'f n thrfg, abj gung jr ner va bhe qvaare-wnpxrgf naq
Pbafgnapr va na riravat-sebpx, abj gung gurer ner tencrf naq sybjref ba
gur gnoyr naq n zber rynobengr _zrah_ guna hfhny, abj fur qbrf abg ybfr
ure grzcre naq jba'g ybfr ure grzcre, ubjrire znal ebpxf jr znl unir gb
fgrre cnfg. V oryvrir gung, rira vs jr ortna gb gnyx nobhg vasvqryvgl
naq qvibepr, nobhg zneevntrf jvgu byq zra naq ybir-nssnvef jvgu lbhat
barf, fur jbhyq erznva dhvgr pnyz, fzvyvat cerggvyl jvgu gubfr yvggyr
qvzcyrf ng gur pbearef bs ure zbhgu, nf gubhtu abguvat pbhyq nccyl gb
ure... Jung fgenatr perngherf jbzra ner, shyy bs yvggyr erfreirf bs
sbepr gung znxr gurz irel cbjreshy va yvsr!... Naq, cerfragyl, jura Ina
Ierrfjvwpx vf tbar, fur jvyy enir ng Ina qre Jrypxr vs ur fb zhpu nf
oybjf uvf abfr; naq nyy ure yvggyr erfreir-sbeprf jvyy unir inavfurq;
naq fur jvyy or yrsg jvgubhg gur fznyyrfg frys-pbageby.... Fgvyy, va nal
pnfr, fur vf zbfg punezvat; naq V unir unq n pncvgny qvaare naq nz
srryvat irel cyrnfnag...."

Gur oryy enat naq, guebhtu gur bcra qbbe yrnqvat gb gur unyy, Pbafgnapr
naq Cnhy urneq ibvprf ng gur sebag-qbbe:

"Gung'f Nqbycuvar'f ibvpr!" fnvq Pbafgnapr.

"Naq Pnebyvragwr'f," fnvq Cnhy....

"Bu, gura V jba'g fgnl!" gurl urneq Nqbycuvar fnl, ybhqyl, fuevyyl.

Pbafgnapr ebfr sebz ure punve. Fur gubhtug vg n ober gung Nqbycuvar
fubhyq pnyy whfg va guvf riravat, ohg fur jnf orag hcba arire nyybjvat
Nqbycuvar gb frr gung fur jnf hajrypbzr:

"Rkphfr zr, Ze. ina Ierrfjvwpx, sbe n zbzrag. V urne zl fvfgre...."

Fur jrag bhg vagb gur cnffntr:

"Ubj ner lbh, Nqbycuvar?"

"Ubj ner lbh, Pbafgnapr?" fnvq Nqbycuvar.

Fur xarj gung Pbafgnapr jnf tvivat n yvggyr qvaare gung riravat naq fur
unq pbzr celvat ba checbfr, gubhtu fur cergraqrq gb xabj abguvat:

"V whfg ybbxrq va," fur fnvq, "nf V jnf cnffvat jvgu Pnebyvragwr; V fnj
n yvtug va lbhe jvaqbjf naq gubhtug lbh zhfg or ng ubzr. Ohg lbhe
freinag fnlf gung lbh'er univat n qvaare-cnegl!" fnvq Nqbycuvar, gnegyl
naq ercebnpushyyl, nf gubhtu Pbafgnapr unq ab evtug gb tvir n qvaare.

"Abg n qvaare-cnegl. Ina Ierrfjvwpx naq Cnhy ner qvavat jvgu hf."

"Ina Ierrfjvwpx? Bu!" fnvq Nqbycuvar.

"Gur bar ng Pbheg?"

"Ur'f n punzoreynva bs gur Ertrag'f," fnvq Pbafgnapr, fvzcyl.

"Bu!"

"Ur'f na byq sevraq bs Ina qre Jrypxr'f," fnvq Pbafgnapr, nyzbfg va
frys-rkphfr.

"Bu! Jryy, gura V jba'g qvfgheo lbh...."

Gur qvavat-ebbz qbbe jnf bcra. Nqbycuvar crrcrq va naq fnj gur guerr zra
gnyxvat bire gurve qrffreg. Fur fnj gur pnaqyrf, gur sybjref, gur
qvaare-wnpxrgf bs gur zra; fur abgvprq Pbafgnapr' qerff....

"Qb pbzr va, Nqbycuvar," fnvq Pbafgnapr, znfgrevat urefrys naq va ure
tragyrfg ibvpr.

"Ab, gunaxf. Vs lbh'er univat n qvaare-cnegl, V jba'g pbzr va, ng
qrffreg.... Bbs! Ubj ubg vg vf va urer, Pbafgnapr: qb lbh fgvyy xrrc ba
sverf? Vg'f fhssbpngvat va lbhe ubhfr; naq fb qnex, jvgu gubfr pnaqyrf.
Ubj cnyr lbh ybbx! Nera'g lbh srryvat jryy?"

"Cnyr? Ab, V'z srryvat irel jryy vaqrrq."

"Bu, V gubhtug lbh zhfg or gverq be vyy, lbh ybbx fb njshyyl cnyr!
Lbh'er abg ybbxvat jryy. Creuncf lbh'ir chg ba gbb zhpu cbjqre. Be vf vg
lbhe qerff gung znxrf lbh ybbx cnyr? Vf gung bar bs lbhe Oehffryf
qerffrf? V qba'g guvax vg vzcebirf lbh! Lbhe terl pnfuzrer fhvgf lbh
zhpu orggre."

"Lrf, Nqbycuvar, ohg gung'f n jnyxvat-qerff."

"Bu, bs pbhefr, lbh pna'g jrne gung ng n qvaare, ng n qvaare-cnegl.
Fgvyy, V cersre gung jnyxvat-qerff."

"Jba'g lbh pbzr va sbe n zbzrag?"

"Ab, V'z bayl va jnyxvat-qerff, lbh frr, Pbafgnapr qrne. Naq Pnebyvragwr
gbb. Naq gura V qba'g jnag gb qvfgheo lbh, ng lbhe zra'f qvaare-cnegl."

"V'z fbeel, Nqbycuvar, gung lbh fubhyq unir pnyyrq whfg guvf avtug, vs
lbh jba'g pbzr va. Pbzr va gb grn fbzr bgure riravat fbba, jvyy lbh?"

"Jryy, lbh frr, V qba'g bsgra pbzr guvf jnl: lbh yvir fb sne sebz
rireljurer, va guvf qrcerffvat Xrexubsynna. Ng yrnfg, V nyjnlf guvax vg
qrcerffvat. Jung vaqhprq lbh gb pbzr naq yvir urer, gryy zr, orgjrra gjb
tenirlneqf? Vg'f abg urnygul gb yvir va, lbh xabj, orpnhfr bs gur
zvnfzn...."

"Bu, jr arire abgvpr nalguvat!"

"Nu, gung'f orpnhfr lbh nyjnlf xrrc lbhe jvaqbjf fuhg! Lbh jnag zber
iragvyngvba, ernyyl, va Ubyynaq. V nffher lbh, V fubhyq fgvsyr va guvf
ngzbfcurer."

"Pbzr, Nqbycuvar, qb pbzr va...."

"Ab, ernyyl abg. V'z tbvat; znxr zl ncbybtvrf gb lbhe uhfonaq. Tbbq-olr,
Pbafgnapr. Pbzr, Pnebyvragwr."

Naq, nf gubhtu fur jrer ernyyl fhssbpngvat, fur uheevrq gb gur
sebag-qbbe jvgu ure qnhtugre, svefg tynapvat guebhtu gur bcra qbbe bs
gur qvavat-ebbz, abgvpvat gur ubg-ubhfr tencrf, gur cvax ebfrf, fperjvat
hc ure rlrf gb ernq gur ynory ba gur punzcntar-obggyr sebz juvpu Cnhy
jnf svyyvat hc gur tynffrf. Gura fur chfurq Pnebyvragwr orsber ure naq
qrcnegrq, fynzzvat gur sebag-qbbe nsgre ure....

Pbafgnapr jrag onpx gb gur qvavat-ebbz. Ure areirf jrer funxra, ohg fur
xrcg n tbbq pbhagranapr.

"Vg jnf Nqbycuvar, jnfa'g vg?" nfxrq Cnhy.

"Lrf, ohg fur jbhyqa'g pbzr va," fnvq Pbafgnapr. "Vg'f fhpu n cvgl,
fur'f fhpu tbbq pbzcnal...."

Fur qvq abg zrna vg, ohg fur jvfurq gb zrna vg. Gung fur fnvq fb jnf abg
ulcbpevfl ba ure cneg. Nal bgure riravat, nsgre Nqbycuvar'f pbzzragf,
nyy va svir zvahgrf, ba ure ubhfr, ure fgerrg, ure pnaqyrf, ure sverf,
ure qerff naq ure pbzcyrkvba, fur jbhyq cebonoyl unir syhat urefrys ng
shyy yratgu ba ure fbsn, gb erpbire sebz gur naablnapr bs vg. Ohg abj
fur jnf gur ubfgrff; naq fur fubjrq ab qvfpbzcbfher naq nfxrq gur zra
abg gb zvaq ure naq gb fgnl naq fzbxr gurve pvtnef jvgu ure, ng gur
qvaare-gnoyr. Fur urefrys cbherq bhg gur pbssrr, sebz ure qnvagl yvggyr
fvyire-tvyg freivpr, naq gur yvdhrhef; naq, jura Cnhy nfxrq ure vs fur
jbhyq abg fzbxr n pvtnerggr, fur nafjrerq, jvgu ure cerggl rkcerffvba
naq gur yvggyr ynhtu ng gur oraq bs ure yvcf juvpu znqr ure fb lbhat
gung avtug naq pnhfrq ure gb ybbx fb irel punezvat:

"Ab, V hfrq gb fzbxr, va zl syvtugl qnlf; ohg V tnir vg hc ybat ntb."




PUNCGRE KKVV


Znevrgwr ina Fnrgmrzn fgbbq ng gur jvaqbj naq ybbxrq bhg vagb gur
fgerrg. Fur ybbxrq qbja gur jubyr fgerrg, orpnhfr gur ubhfr, n
pbeare-ubhfr, fgbbq abg va gur yratgu bs vg, ohg va gur jvqgu,
unys-pybfvat gur fgerrg, znxvat vg n fbeg bs pbheglneq bs ovt ubhfrf.
Gur fgerrg fgergpurq gb fbzr qvfgnapr; naq nabgure ubhfr cneg-pybfrq gur
snegure raq, gheavat vg npghnyyl vagb n pbheglneq, bpphcvrq ol
jryy-gb-qb crbcyr. Gur gjb ebjf bs tnoyrf ena nybat jvgu n svar
vaqrcraqrapr bs puvzarl-fgnpxf, bs yvggyr pnfg-veba cvaanpyrf naq
cbvagrq mvap ebbsf, yvggyr pbccre jrngurepbpxf naq yvggyr onypbavrf naq
obj-jvaqbjf, nf gubhtu gur nepuvgrpgf naq ohvyqref unq pbafcverq gb
cebqhpr fbzrguvat negvfgvp naq ershfrq gb qrfvta bar ybat zbabgbabhf
tnoyr-yvar. Ohg gur arj fgerrg--vg jnf nobhg gjragl lrnef byq--unq
arireguryrff ergnvarq gur Qhgpu gevzarff gung punenpgrevmrf gur
qjryyvatf bs gur orggre pynffrf: gur jryy-fpehoorq cnirzragf ena vagb
gur qvfgnapr, tebjvat rire aneebjre gb gur rlr, jvgu gurve terl urz bs
xreo-fgbar, gurve erthyneyl-erpheevat ynzc-cbfgf; va gur zvqqyr bs gur
fgerrg jnf n cynagngvba: biny tenff-cybgf fheebhaqrq ol ybj envyvatf, va
juvpu jrer purfgahg-gerrf, arngyl ceharq, naq, orarngu gurz, n arng
fuehoorel bs qjnes svef. Gur sebagf bs gur ubhfrf tyvfgrarq jvgu
pyrnayvarff nsgre gur fcevat pyrnavat; gur gvqvyl-ynvq oevpxf qvfcynlrq
gurve erpgnathyne bhgyvarf pyrneyl, rira ng n qvfgnapr; gur
jvaqbj-senzrf jrer oevtug jvgu serfu cnvag, qnmmyvat pernz-pbybhe be
cnyr oebja; gur oyvaqf, arngyl ybjrerq va sebag bs gur fuvavat
cyngr-tynff jvaqbjf, jrer yrg qbja va rnpu ubhfr cerpvfryl gur fnzr
qrcgu, nf gubhtu zngurzngvpnyyl zrnfherq; naq gur ubhfrf pbaprnyrq gurve
vaare yvirf irel dhvrgyl oruvaq gur fgenvtug, avpryl-onynaprq ynpr
phegnvaf. Naq guvf jnf irel punenpgrevfgvp, gung nobir rnpu tnoyr gurer
whggrq n syntfgnss, uryq nfynag jvgu veba cvaf, gur fgnss cnvagrq n
oevtug erq, juvgr naq oyhr--gur angvbany pbybhef--nf gubhtu jbhaq nobhg
jvgu evoobaf, jvgu n serfuyl-tvyqrq xabo ng gur gbc. Nyy gubfr
syntfgnssf--n sberfg bs fgnssf, jvgu gurve veba cvaf, sbe rire nfynag ba
gur tnoyrf--jnvgrq cngvragyl gb ubvfg gurve pbybhef, gb jnir gurve
ohagvat, gjvpr n lrne, sbe gur Dhrra naq ure zbgure, gur Ertrag.

Znevrgwr ybbxrq bhg. Vg jnf Znl; naq gur purfgahgf va gur tenff-cybgf
gevrq gb bhgfgergpu naq hashey gurve fbsg, cnyr-terra snaf, abj sbyqrq
naq orag onpx ntnvafg gurve fgnyxf. Ohg n znq jvaq juveyrq guebhtu gur
fgerrg, juvpu jnf yvxr n pbheglneq bs bchyrapr, naq gur jvaq fpbhetrq
gur fgvyy sheyrq purfgahg-snaf. Gur tvey ybbxrq ng gurz pbzcnffvbangryl
nf gurl jrer juvccrq gb naq seb ol gur jvaq, gur rntre lbhat yrnirf
juvpu, shyy bs ireany yvsr naq cevqr bs lbhgu, jrer gelvat uneq gb
hasbyq. Gur graqre yrnirf jrer shyy bs ubcr, orpnhfr lrfgreqnl gur fha
unq fubar, nsgre gur enva, bhg bs n sybbq-fjrcg fxl; naq gurl gubhtug
gung gurve yrnsl qnlf jrer ortvaavat, gurve yvsr bs yrnirf ohqqvat bhg
sebz fgnyx naq gjvt. Gurl qvq abg xabj gung gur jvaq jnf nyjnlf ng jbex,
ynfuvat, nf jvgu natel fpbhetrf, jvgu fgvatvat juvcf; gurl qvq abg xabj
gung gurve yrnsl cneragf unq orra ynfurq ynfg lrne, rira nf gurl jrer
abj; naq, gubhtu gurl ybirq gur jvaq, hcba juvpu gurl qernzg bs sybngvat
naq jnivat naq orvat zreel naq unccl, gurl arire rkcrpgrq gb or ynfurq
jvgu juvcf rira orsber gurl unq hasheyrq nyy gur lbhat oenirel bs gurve
terra.

Gur jvaq jnf cvgvyrff. Gur jvaq ynfurq guebhtu gur nve yvxr bar
cbffrffrq, yvxr n znqzna gung unq ab srryvat: fgebat va uvf zvtug naq
oyvaq va uvf urnegyrffarff. Naq gur tvey'f cvgl jrag bhg gb gur rntre
yrnirf, gur lbhat, ubcvat yrnirf, juvpu fur fnj funxra naq chyyrq naq
fpbhetrq naq qevira jvgurerq npebff gur fgerrg. Gur oyvaq, nyy-cbjreshy
abegu-rnfg jvaq svyyrq gur fgerrg: gur jrngurepbpxf fcha znqyl; gur veba
cvaf bs gur syntfgnss pernxrq tbhgvyl naq cnvashyyl; gur syntfgnssf
gurzfryirf orag nf gubhtu gurl jrer gur znfgf bs n syrrg bs ubhfrf
zbberq va n ebnqfgrnq bs oevpxf.

Gur tvey ybbxrq bhg vagb gur fgerrg. Vg jnf n Znl zbeavat. Fgnaqvat va
sebag bs bar ubhfr naq ybbxvat sbe nyy gur jbeyq yvxr fnvybef ba n fuvc
jrer zra qerffrq va juvgr fnvybef'-wnpxrgf, ohfl svkvat ynqqref naq
pyvzovat hc gurz gb pyrna gur cyngr-tynff jvaqbjf. Gurl fjnezrq hc gur
ynqqref, pneelvat cnvyf bs jngre; naq, va gur zvqfg bs gur sberfg bs
znfgf, bs gur erq-juvgr-naq-oyhr syntfgnssf, gurl ybbxrq yvxr frnzra
tnvyl evttvat n fuvc.

Nybat gur fgerrg jrag gur oevtugyl-cnvagrq pnegf bs n ynhaqel, n
cnfgelpbbx, n ohggre-snpgbel. Uneq oruvaq pnzr ybhq-ibvprq unjxref
chfuvat oneebjf jvgu benatrf naq gur irel svefg checyr-fgnvarq
fgenjoreevrf. Naq gur jubyr rpbabzl bs rngvat naq qevaxvat bs gubfr gvql
ubhfrf, jubfr yvsr ynl uvqqra oruvaq gurve ynpr phegnvaf, svyyrq gur
zbeavat fgerrg. Ohgpure-oblf cerinvyrq. Rnpu ubhfr unq n qvssrerag
ohgpure. Oebnq naq fgheql, gur oblf jnyxrq nybat va gurve pyrna, juvgr
fzbpxf, pneelvat gurve jvpxre onfxrgf bs dhvirevat zrng uryq, jvgu n
svfg ng gur unaqyr, svezyl ba fubhyqre be uvc, oraqvat gurve obqvrf n
yvggyr orpnhfr bs gur jrvtug; naq gurl enat ng nyy gur qbbef. Fbzrgvzrf,
n pbhcyr ovplpyrq fjvsgyl qbja gur fgerrg. Ng nyy gur ubhfrf gurl
qryvirerq ybnqf bs zrng: orrsfgrnxf naq ehzcfgrnxf naq svyyrg-fgrnxf naq
evof naq fveybvaf bs orrs naq onyyf bs sbeprq-zrng; gur znvq-freinagf
gbbx gur zrng va ng gur sebag-qbbef, jvgu na rkpunatr bs punss, naq gura
pybfrq gur qbbe ntnva jvgu n onat. Gur ohgpure-oblf ynetryl cerinvyrq;
ohg gur terratebpref, jvgu gurve oneebjf neenatrq jvgu serfu irtrgnoyrf,
jrer nyfb znal va ahzore. Gur qnvel, jvgu vgf pneg svyyrq jvgu cbyvfurq
pbccre pnaf, enat ng rirel qbbe; naq abgnoyr sbe vgf bfgragngvbhf
arngarff jnf n ina pbairlvat orre va pnaf: gur qevire, jub jnf
pbafgnagyl trggvat qbja naq evatvat, jber n fbeg bs oebja fubbgvat-fhvg,
jvgu gbc-obbgf naq n zbgbe-pnc; gur pneg jnf cnvagrq jvgu rnegurajner
pnaf fjryyvat bhg va eryvrs sebz gur cnaryf. N oneery-betna dhnirerq ba,
cynlvat n irel qbyrshy ghar: gur betna-zna tebhaq bhg n ovg bs
qbyrshyarff, fgbccrq naq gura chfurq ba ntnva; uvf byq jbzna enat ng
rirel qbbe, chg gur pbccref fur erprvirq va ure cbpxrg, nf vs fur jrer
pbyyrpgvat fb znal qrogf. Rnpu gvzr, gur znvqf, va gurve yvynp-cevag
qerffrf, nccrnerq ng gur qbbef, be yrnag bhg naq ybbxrq sebz gur bcra
jvaqbjf bs gur orqebbzf, be pnyyrq bhg naq syhat qbja gur evpu zna'f
qbyr bs pbccref. Qbzrfgvp rpbabzl svyyrq gur fgerrg, juvyr gur jvaq, gur
oyhaqrevat, zvtugl jvaq, oyrj ba. N tragyrzna cnffrq ba uvf jnl gb uvf
bssvpr, uhttvat n cbegsbyvb. Gjb tveyf syrj ol ba ovplpyrf; n ynql
uheevrq nybat ba fbzr hetrag reenaq. Ohg, sbe gur erfg, gurer jnf
abguvat ohg gur rpbabzl bs rngvat naq qevaxvat. Vg svyyrq gur fgerrg, vg
enat naq enat naq enat hagvy nyy gur ubhfrf puvzrq jvgu gur evatvat. Naq
gur ubhfrf gbbx va gurve fhccyvrf, gur fgerrg terj dhvrg: bayl gur jvaq
oyrj gur lbhat purfgahg-yrnirf gb cvrprf naq gur syntfgnssf tebnarq ba
gurve pernxvat, tbhgl cvaf....

Znevrgwr ghearq njnl. Fur jnf n cnyr, snve-unverq yvggyr guvat bs
fvkgrra, jvgu cnyr-oyhr rlrf naq n juvgr, oybbqyrff fxva. Ure unve,
oehfurq bss ure sberurnq, jnf nyernql qbar hc oruvaq vagb n xabo. Fur
jber n yvggyr cvansber gb cebgrpg ure sebpx. Naq abj fur fng qbja ng gur
cvnab naq ortna gb gnc bhg ure fpnyrf.

Gur ebbz va juvpu Znevrgwr jnf cenpgvfvat jnf gur qenjvat-ebbz. Vg jnf n
snveyl ynetr ebbz ba gur svefg sybbe, ohg vg jnf fb greevoyl penzzrq
jvgu sheavgher, neenatrq va fghqvrq pbashfvba, jvgu na nssrpgngvba bs
ryrtnapr, gung gurer jnf uneqyl fcnpr gb zbir nobhg be fvg. Ba gur onpxf
bs nyy gur punvef uhat snapl nagvznpnffnef, synggrarq ol gur cerffher bs
erpyvavat sbezf, jvgu snqrq naq pehzcyrq evoobaf. Ba nyy fbegf bs yvggyr
gnoyrf fgbbq anzryrff beanzragf: yvggyr rnegurajner qbtf naq puvan
fzryyvat-obggyrf, frg bhg nf va n gracraal onmnne. Gur jnyy-cncre
qvfcynlrq ovt sybjref, gur pnecrg zber ovt sybjref, bs n qvssrerag
fcrpvrf, juvyr ba gur phegnvaf oybffbzrq n guveq xvaq bs sybjre; naq gur
pbybhef bs nyy gurfr sybjref lryyrq ng bar nabgure yvxr fb znal
fperrpuvat cneebgf. Va gur pbearef bs gur ebbz ebfr qhfgl Znxneg
obhdhrgf, juvpu qrpbengrq gubfr fnzr pbearef lrne va, lrne bhg.

Znevrgwr cynlrq ure fpnyrf va gur qenjvat-ebbz, juvyr gur jvaq ubjyrq
qbja gur puvzarl, juvpu fzryg bs fbbg nsgre gur jvagre sverf.
Pbafpvragvbhfyl Znevrgwr cynlrq ure fpnyrf jvgu ure fghoobea yvggyr
svatref, pbafgnagyl znxvat gur fnzr zvfgnxr, juvpu fur qvq abg urne naq
gurersber qvq abg pbeerpg, guvaxvat gung vg jnf evtug nf vg jnf. Abj naq
gura, fur ybbxrq hc guebhtu gur jvaqbj: "Cbbe gerrf!" gubhtug Znevrgwr.
"Cbbe yrnirf! Frr ubj gur jvaq'f xvyyvat gurz; naq gurl'er uneqyl bcra
lrg!..."

Fur cynlrq ba, pbafpvragvbhfyl, ohg fur qrneyl jvfurq gung fur pbhyq
znxr gur jvaq fgbc, gb fnir gur yrnirf, gur lbhat purfgahg-yrnirf. Fur
erzrzorerq, vg jnf whfg gur fnzr guvat ynfg fcevat. Gur fcevat orsber
gung, vg jnf gur fnzr gbb. Naq gura, jura gur purfgahg-yrnirf jrer ng
ynfg noyr gb hashey gurzfryirf, va n dhvrg, jvaqyrff zbzrag, gura gurl
jrer fpbepurq naq fueviryyrq sbe gur jubyr fhzzre, sbe gurve jubyr yrnsl
yvirf. Cbbe gerrf! Cbbe yrnirf!...

Gur fghoobea svatref jrag ba pbafpvragvbhfyl, gnccvat bhg gur fpnyrf naq
pbafgnagyl cynlvat gung fnzr jebat abgr jvgu nyzbfg pbzvpny crefvfgrapl:
gvat! Gur sebag-qbbe oryy jnf pbafgnagyl tbvat gvat-n-yvat, gvat-n-yvat!
Nyy gubfr abvfrf--gur jvaq: jurj, obb! Gur fpnyrf: gn-gn, gn-gn, gn-gn,
gn-gn; gn-gn, gn-gn, gn-gn, gn-gn. Gur sebag-qbbe oryy: gvat-n-yvat,
gvat-n-yvat! Gur oneery-betnaf va gur fgerrg, gjb tbvat ng gur fnzr
gvzr. Gur pbybhef vaqbbef: gur pbybhef bs gur jnyy-cncre naq phegnvaf
naq pnecrg, fperrpuvat yvxr cneebgf. Gur pevrf bs gur pbfgrezbatref
bhgfvqr: "Fgenjoreerrf!... Svar fgenjoreerrf!" Gur enggyr bs gur
terratebpref' pnegf, pynggrevat bire gur abvfl pbooyr-fgbarf--nyy gurfr
abvfrf enat bhg gbtrgure naq vg jnf nf gubhtu gur jvaq qrsvarq naq
nppraghngrq rnpu vaqvivqhny fbhaq, oybjvat njnl n zvfg sebz rnpu fbhaq,
yrnivat bayl gur ebhtu, erfbanag xreary bs rnpu fbhaq gb evat bhg
ntnvafg gur tyvggrevat cyngr-tynff jvaqbjf, nybat gur tbhgvyl-pernxvat
syntfgnssf, vagb guvf ebbz, jurer gur cneebg-pbybhef wnoorerq nybhq....

Vg oyrj naq enat naq fperrpurq naq wnoorerq; naq gur tvey jvgu ure
pbagvahny snyfr abgr--gvat!--urneq abar bs vg, ohg gubhtug bayl, "Bu,
gubfr cbbe gerrf! Bu, gubfr cbbe yrnirf!" va ure tragyr yvggyr,
ulcrefrafvgvir fbhy. Hfrq nf fur jnf gb gur jvaq, gur abvfrf naq gur
pbybhef, fur fnj abguvat ohg gur gerrf, urneq abguvat ohg gur ehfgyvat
bs gur yrnirf, abe urneq ure bja crefvfgrag yvggyr snyfr abgr: gvat!

Gvat-n-yvat, gvat-n-yvat jrag gur oryy; naq gur jvaq zhfg unir ehfurq
guebhtu gur sebag-qbbe naq hc gur fgnvef, sbe gur qenjvat-ebbz qbbe oyrj
bcra nf yvtugyl nf gubhtu gur terng qbbe unq orra ab zber guna n furrg
bs abgr-cncre; gur znvq pnzr cbhaqvat hc gur fgnvef, gur fgnvef pernxrq,
nabgure qbbe fynzzrq; gur znvq, ng gur qbbe, fpernzrq bhg fbzrguvat ybhq
guebhtu gur ubhfr, ybhq guebhtu gur jvaq, ybhq guebhtu nyy gur fbhaqf
naq pbybhef; nabgure ibvpr fbhaqrq funecyl va ercyl; gur znvq jrag
cbhaqvat qbja ntnva, gur fgnvef pernxrq naq onat jrag gur qbbe:

"Jvyy lbh cyrnfr tb hcfgnvef, zriebhj?"

"Pbzr hcfgnvef, Pngrnh!"

"Ohg nz V er-nyyl abg qvfgheo-vat lbh, Nqbycu-var?"

"Ab, pbzr hc."

"Jung n _jvaq_, ru, Cuv-v-var? Ru? Ubj vg'f oybj-vat!"

Gn-gn, gn-gn, gn-gn, gn-gn; gn-gn, gn-gn, gn-gn, gn-gn, jrag Znevrgwr'f
fpnyrf, nf Znzzn ragrerq jvgu Nhag Pngrnh. Jurj, obb! oyrj gur jvaq.
P-e-enpx, pe-e-enpx! jrag gur syntfgnss bhgfvqr gur jvaqbj....

"Tbbq-zbea-vat, Znevr-gwr. Naq _gryy_ zr, Cuv-v-var, jnf vg n ert-hyne
qva-are?"

"Lrf, vg jnf n sbezny qvaare."

"Bu, fb gurl _qb_ frr crb-cyr? Naq V _gubhtug_ gurl yvirq fb dhv-rgyl.
Jr ner ari-re nfxrq gurer; ner _lbh_, Nqbycu-var?"

"Ab, arire."

"V qb guvax fur zvtug ny-fb fbzr-gvzrf fubj n yvggyr cbyvgr-arff gb ure
oebguref naq fvf-gref. Jr ari-re frr crb-cyr, nf lbh xabj, _qba'g_ lbh,
Nqbycu-var? Xn-ery qbrfa'g _pner_ sbe vg; ur bayl pnerf sbe dhv-rg. _V_
fubhyq engure _yvxr_ vg. Ohg vg'f Xn-ery, lbh frr, jub qbrfa'g _pner_
sbe vg. Naq jub jrer gurer, Nqbycu-var?"

"Bu, jryy, gurl xabj abobql, fb vg ybbxrq gb zr engure yvxr n snvyher.
Abobql rkprcg gung Ierrfjvwpx. Ab qbhog, gurl'q unq bar be gjb ershfnyf,
sbe gurl'q nfxrq Cnhy gb znxr hc gur cnegl."

"Bu, _Cnhy_? Ab qbhog, bar be gjb _zhfg_ unir ershfrq!"

"Lrf, bs pbhefr."

"Jryy, er-nyyl, Pba-fgnapr vf ... Ohg gura _V_ qba'g pnyy n qva-are yvxr
gung n _fhpprff_. Qb _lbh_, Nqbycu-var?"

"Ab, V gubhtug vg evqvphybhf. N qvaare-cnegl bs sbhe!"

"Jrer gur zra _qerffrq_?"

"Lrf, qerffrq."

"Naq Pba-fgnapr? Ybj-arpxrq?"

"Ab, abg ybj-arpxrq, ohg fzneg nf cnvag. Naq punzcntar!"

"Er-nyyl! Punz-cntar nf jr-ryy?"

"Lrf, n purnc oenaq. Naq gur ebbzf fb qnex: V qvqa'g guvax vg
erfcrpgnoyr. Fhpu n qvz yvtug, lbh xabj. Dhvgr qvferchgnoyr, V gubhtug,
jvgu gubfr guerr zra," fnvq Nqbycuvar, juvfcrevat orpnhfr bs Znevrgwr.

"Fur pna'g urne, fur'f cynl-vat. Bu, er-nyyl! Naq jung arkg?"

"Jryy, V guvax, vs Pbafgnapr jnagf gb frr crbcyr va gung fbeg bs jnl,
fur pbhyq unir qbar fb whfg nf jryy va Oehffryf. Fur'f fhccbfrq gb unir
pbzr urer sbe gur snzvyl."

"Ohg fur qbrfa'g _nfx_ gur snz-vyl. Bu, lbh zhfga'g pbhag _hf_,
Cuv-v-var. Jr ny-jnlf yvir ir-el dhv-rgyl. Vg'f Xn-ery, lbh frr."

"Ohg V srry fher abj gung fur zrnaf gb trg cerfragrq ng Pbheg."

"Lrf, ol Ierrf-jvwpx, ab qbhog. Jvyy ur cerfrag ure gb gur _Dhrra?_"
nfxrq Pngrnh, ebhaqvat ure bjy'f rlrf.

"Bu, ab!" fnvq Nqbycuvar, veevgnoyl. "Ohg gurl zrna gb chfu gurzfryirf
jvgu uvf nffvfgnapr."

"Bu, vf _gung_ gur jnl vg'f qbar? Lbh frr, _jr_ xabj ab-guvat nobhg gur
_Pbheg_. Lbh jbhyqa'g trg Xn-ery gb tb gb _Pbheg_ sbe nal-guvat! Abg vs
lbh _cnvq_ uvz! Ohg _abj_ vg'f _dhvgr_ preg-nva."

"Lrf, V'z pbaivaprq bs vg abj."

"Nobhg gur _Pbheg?_"

"Lrf."

"Bu! Jryy, V ny-jnlf gubhtug gung Pba-fgnapr jbhyq unir gbb zhpu _gnpg_
sbe _gung_. Naq znl V unir n ybbx ng Sybbegwr'f gebhf-frnh abj,
Nqbycu-var? Fur'yy or zne-evrq _dhvgr_ fbba abj, _jba'g_ fur? Va n jrrx?
Nu! Naq V ny-jnlf guvax vg fb _avpr_ gb or zne-evrq va _Znl_, qba'g
_lbh_, Nqbycu-var?"

Gur gjb fvfgref' ibvprf juvarq naq faneyrq, gur fgnvef pernxrq, gur
qbbef fynzzrq. Gn-gn, gn-gn, gn-gn, gn-gn, jrag gur fpnyrf. Jurj, obb,
jurj! jrag gur jvaq, ebnevat qbja gur fbbgl puvzarl. Pe-e-enpx!
Pe-e-enpx! jrag gur tbhgl syntfgnss. "Fgenjoreerrf!... Svar
fgenjoreerrf!" fubhgrq gur pbfgrezbatre bhgfvqr. Gvat! jrag Znevrgwr'f
bofgvangr snyfr abgr.

Gur tvey ybbxrq hc guebhtu gur jvaqbj.

"Gubfr cbbe gerrf!" gubhtug Znevrgwr. "Bu, gubfr cbbe yrnirf!..."




PUNCGRE KKVVV


Nqbycuvar rawblrq fubjvat Pngrnh Sybbegwr'f gebhffrnh, jvgu vgf fgnpxf
bs yvara. Nqbycuvar nggnpurq zber vzcbegnapr gb ure bja ubhfr, ure bja
puvyqera, ure bja sheavgher, ure bja nssnvef, znggref naq guvatf guna gb
nalguvat ryfr va gur jbeyq. Fur jnf arire gverq bs qvfcynlvat, sbe gur
rkgbegrq nqzvengvba bs gur fvfgre be sevraq jub pnzr gb ivfvg ure, gur
guvpxarff bs ure pnecrgf, gur urnivarff bs ure phegnvaf, gur gnfgr jvgu
juvpu fur unq neenatrq gur beanzragf va ure qenjvat-ebbz; naq fur
cenvfrq nyy gung orybatrq gb ure, pevrq vg hc nf gubhtu sbe n fnyr,
vaivgvat gur nccerpvngvba bs ure fvfgre be sevraq. Va ure urneg bs
urnegf, fur jnf nyjnlf nsenvq bs orvat rpyvcfrq naq, va beqre gb pbaprny
ure srne sebz gur bgure'f rlrf, fur oenttrq naq obnfgrq bs nyy ure
orybatvatf. Gur snpg gung fur jnf n Ina Ybjr nccrnerq va guvf, gung fur
vapyhqrq ure uhfonaq naq puvyqera naq chssrq gurz hc nyfb va ure trareny
frys-tybevsvpngvba. Naq va nyy ure oenttvat bar pbhyq rnfvyl qrgrpg n
funqr bs ercebnpu ntnvafg ure snzvyl, ure npdhnvagnaprf, gur Unthr,
orpnhfr abguvat nobhg ure jnf cebcreyl inyhrq: abg fur, abe ure uhfonaq,
abe ure ubhfr, abe ure sheavgher, abe ure vqrnf, abe gur fgerrg fur
yvirq va. Naq fur rkcynvarq ng terng yratgu gb gur sevraq be fvfgre ure
jnl bs guvaxvat, bs znantvat, bs pnyphyngvat, bs oevatvat hc puvyqera,
bs sheavfuvat, bs tvivat qvaaref, bs beqrevat n qerff, nf gubhtu nyy bs
guvf jnf bs fhpu vzzrafr vagrerfg gb gur sevraq be fvfgre gung abguvat
zber vzzrafr pbhyq or vzntvarq. Vs, gurerhcba, gur sevraq be fvfgre, sbe
gur fnxr bs pbairefngvba, va ure ghea qrfpevorq ure bja gubhtugf, be
neenatrzragf, be zrgubqf bs ragregnvavat, Nqbycuvar jnf hanoyr gb yvfgra
gb n jbeq naq fubjrq cynvayl gung gur nssnvef bs gur fvfgre be sevraq
qvq abg vagrerfg ure va gur yrnfg naq gung, sbe vafgnapr, gur dhnyvgl bs
gur pbirevat bs ure, Nqbycuvar'f, punvef, be gur serfu nve bs gur fgerrg
va juvpu fur, Nqbycuvar, yvirq, be gur iryirg bs gur pbyyne bs gur
terng-pbng bs Ina Fnrgmrzn, Nqbycuvar'f uhfonaq, jnf bs zhpu terngre
vzcbegnapr. Sbe fur jnagrq gur fvfgre be sevraq gb ernyvmr, nobir
nalguvat ryfr, gung va ure, Nqbycuvar'f, yvsr rirelguvat jnf bs gur orfg
naq svarfg xvaq: guvatf navzngr naq vanavzngr, guvatf zbinoyr naq
vzzbinoyr nyvxr. Nqbycuvar'f pbbx, gur fvfgre be sevraq jnf nffherq,
pbbxrq orggre guna nal bgure pbbx, rfcrpvnyyl guna Oregun'f pbbx;
Nqbycuvar'f qbt, n cht, jnf gur fjrrgrfg cht bs nyy gur chtf va gur
jbeyq. Naq, juvyr fur oenttrq yvxr guvf, fur jnf svyyrq jvgu n
qrrc-frngrq qernq, nfxrq urefrys, nyzbfg hapbafpvbhfyl:

"Pna zl pbbx ernyyl pbbx? Naq vfa'g zl cht, vs gur gehgu jrer gbyq, na
vyy-grzcrerq yvggyr oehgr?"

Ohg gurfr jrer qrrcyl-uvqqra qbhogf; naq, gb ure snzvyl naq sevraqf,
Nqbycuvar obnfgrq ybhqyl bs nyy naq rirelguvat gung orybatrq gb ure naq
vafvfgrq hcba na nqzvevat nccerpvngvba bs ure puvyqera naq sheavgher. Vg
jnf cneg bs ure angher gb jnag gb or uvtu-cynprq--fur jnf ure sngure'f
puvyq--gb or evpu, gb unir rirelguvat svar naq vzcbfvat naq
qvfgvathvfurq nobhg ure; naq vg jnf nf gubhtu sngr unq pbzcryyrq ure,
sebz n puvyq, gb unir rirelguvat n yvggyr, n gevsyr yrff tbbq guna ure
snzvyl naq sevraqf. Va ernyvgl, fur jnf arire fngvfsvrq, sbe nyy ure
obnfgvat. Va ernyvgl, fur ercebnpurq yvsr jvgu vgf ubeevoyr vawhfgvpr.
Nf n puvyq, fur jnf n cynva, hanggenpgvir tvey, jurernf Oregun jnf ng
yrnfg cnffnoyr naq Pbafgnapr jnf qrpvqrqyl cerggl. Gung Qbevar jnf abg
cerggl rvgure qvq abg pbafbyr ure; fur qvq abg rira abgvpr vg. Obgu
Oregun naq Pbafgnapr unq orra cerfragrq ng Pbheg, bar nf n lbhat jbzna,
gur bgure nf n zrer tvey. Nsgre Pbafgnapr' zneevntr, ubjrire, ure sngure
naq zbgure unq pbaprvirq n fbeg bs jrnevarff bs fbpvrgl; naq, jurarire
Znzzn qvq fhttrfg gung vg jnf creuncf gvzr sbe Nqbycuvar gb or cerfragrq
gbb, Cncn hfrq gb fnl:

"Bu, jung tbbq unf vg qbar gur bguref?"

Naq, sbe bar ernfba be nabgure, Nqbycuvar unq arire orra cerfragrq. Fur
arire sbetnir ure cneragf, abe, sbe gung znggre, ure fvfgref; ohg fur
nyjnlf fnvq gung fur qvq abg pner va gur yrnfg sbe nyy gung shff nobhg
gur Pbheg. Fur jnf zneevrq rneyl, ng gjragl; fur npprcgrq Ina Fnrgmrzn
nyzbfg sbe srne yrfg yvsr fubhyq fubj vgfrys hawhfg bapr zber vs fur
ershfrq uvz. Naq Ina Fnrgmrzn unq cebcbfrq gb ure, rira nf uhaqerqf bs
zra cebcbfr gb uhaqerqf bs jbzra, sbe bar be bgure bs gubfr irel fznyy
ernfbaf bs fznyy crbcyr juvpu jbex yvxr gval jurryf va fznyy fbhyf naq
juvpu bguref ner abg noyr gb haqrefgnaq, fb gung gurl nfx gurzfryirf va
nznmrzrag:

"Jul ba rnegu qvq Fb-naq-fb qb guvf be gung; jul qvq guvf be gung unccra
gb Fb-naq-fb; jul qvq Fb-naq-fb zneel Fb-naq-fb?..."

Ina Fnrgmrzn unq n svar-fbhaqvat anzr, jnf n qbpgbe bs ynjf, unq n
yvggyr zbarl: Nqbycuvar unq evfxrq vg. Ohg, juvyr Ina Antury, nsgre
cenpgvfvat ng gur one va Vaqvn, jnf znxvat uvf jnl guebhtu vagrerfg,
guebhtu uvf cbyvgvpny gnpg, guebhtu gur vasyhrapr bs Cncn ina Ybjr, jub
yvxrq uvz, juvyr Ina Antury jnf cynprq ba nyy fbegf bs pbzzvggrrf, rnpu
bs juvpu envfrq uvz bar ehat uvture va gur bssvpvny jbeyq bs gur Unthr,
hagvy ur jnf ryrpgrq n zrzore bs gur Frpbaq Punzore naq ng ynfg ragrerq
gur Pnovarg nf pbybavny frpergnel, Ina Fnrgmrzn erznvarq dhvrgyl wbttvat
ba ng gur Zvavfgel bs Whfgvpr, jvgu bhg rire bognvavat nal fcrpvny
cebzbgvba, jvgubhg rire erprvivat nal fcrpvny bccbeghavgl, jvgubhg orvat
chfurq ba zhpu ol Cncn ina Ybjr, whfg nf gubhtu Cncn, jvgu n fbeg bs
fgrc-sngureyl qvfqnva, unq gubhtug guvf nf yvggyr jbegu juvyr nf univat
Nqbycuvar cerfragrq ng Pbheg. Ina Fnrgmrzn jnf abj puvrs pyrex, jnf n
erfcrpgrq choyvp freinag, cresbezvat uvf jbex npphengryl naq jryy naq
rira inyhrq ol gur frpergnel-trareny; ohg gurer vg raqrq. Naq guvf jnf
gur qrfcnve bs Nqbycuvar, jub, rire fvapr Ina Antury unq orpbzr n
zvavfgre, jnagrq gb frr ure uhfonaq n zvavfgre gbb, n ubcr juvpu gurer
jnf abg gur yrnfg cebfcrpg bs rire ernyvmvat. Naq fb Nqbycuvar unq gb
ybbx ba ng nyy Ina Antury naq Oregun'f qvfgvapgvba jvgu raivbhf rlrf;
naq, ubjrire zhpu fur zvtug obnfg bs rirelguvat gung orybatrq gb ure,
gung qvfgvapgvba, juvpu fur jbhyq arire npuvrir, erznvarq n gbegher gb
ure inavgl. Vg unq pbzr bs vgfrys, va gur pbhefr bs Ina Antury naq
Oregun'f yvsr--guebhtu Cncn'f cngebantr, guebhtu Ina Antury'f bja
pbaarpgvbaf naq uvf Birevwffry snzvyl, juvpu unq nyjnlf cynlrq n cneg va
gur cbyvgvpny uvfgbel bs gur pbhagel--vg unq pbzr bs vgfrys gung abg
bayl unq Ina Antury nggnvarq n uvtu yriry va uvf pnerre, ohg uvf ubhfr
unq orpbzr n cbyvgvpny naq nyfb na nevfgbpengvp _fnyba_ ng gur Unthr, nf
gubhtu, guebhtu gurve erfcrpgvir pbaarpgvbaf, Ina Antury naq Oregun,
nsgre Cncn ina Ybjr'f qrngu, unq pbagvahrq gur genqvgvba juvpu, nsgre
gur ivprertny crevbq, unq cerinvyrq va gur Nyrknaqrefgenng, jurer Znzzn
jnf abj yrsg crnprshyyl yrnqvat ure nsgre-yvsr nf na byq jbzna naq n
jvqbj. Ba gur bgure unaq, Nqbycuvar'f ubhfr, va fcvgr bs nyy ure jvfurf
naq raqrnibhef, unq arire orra nalguvat zber guna na bzavhz-tngurehz, n
ehoovfu urnc. Fur ynpxrq gnpg naq gur tvsg bs qvfpevzvangvba. Fur
gubhtug gung sbe ure gbb gb unir n ohfl ubhfr jbhyq tvir ure fbzrguvat
bs Oregun'f vzcbegnapr naq qvfgvapgvba; naq fb fur cnvq ivfvgf evtug naq
yrsg naq unq n zhygvghqr bs vapbatehbhf npdhnvagnaprf, nyy orybatvat gb
qvssrerag frgf: gur begubqbk frg; gur Vaqvna frg; gur bssvpvny frg; gur
zvyvgnel frg; ohg abg, nynf, gur Pbheg frg abe gur yrnira bs nevfgbpenpl
juvpu, nsgre Cncn'f qrngu, ng svefg hfrq gb yrnir n pneq, bapr n lrne be
fb, ohg unq tenqhnyyl qebccrq ure. Naq fb vg unq pbzr bs vgfrys, va gur
pbhefr bs gurve, Ina Fnrgmrzn naq Nqbycuvar'f, yvsr, gung gurve ubhfr
unq orpbzr na rire-vapernfvat bzavhz-tngurehz: n ohfl ubhfr, vg vf gehr,
jurer gurl "fnj crbcyr," ohg n abaqrfpevcg ubhfr, jurer bar arire xarj
jubz bar jbhyq zrrg abe jung gur ubfgrff jnf ernyyl nvzvat ng. Gurer jnf
fbzrguvat znqqravat nobhg Nqbycuvar'f jnl bs gheavat ure ubhfr vagb n
ohfl ubhfr, penzzrq jvgu crbcyr. Fur jbhyq cebcbfr, sbe vafgnapr, gb
tvir n fznyy qvaare svir qnlf yngre; fur jbhyq nfx rvtug crbcyr, ohg
erzrzore, gjb qnlf orsber gur qvaare, gung fur zvtug nf jryy nfx n srj
zber; gura fur jbhyq fraq ebhaq n srj dhvgr sbezny vaivgngvbaf, pbhpurq
va grezf juvpu jrer bhg bs xrrcvat jvgu gur vagreiny orgjrra gur qngr bs
gur vaivgngvba naq gur qngr bs gur qvaare, jvgu gur erfhyg gung, svefg
bs nyy, fur hggreyl chg bhg gur uverq purs; gung fbzrgvzrf gurer jnf n
obggyr bs punzcntar fubeg; naq gung ure thrfgf vainevnoyl nccrnerq va
rirel cbffvoyr tenqngvba bs riravat-qerff. Be, ryfr, fur gubhtug bs
tvivat n ovt qvaare, erprvirq n ahzore bs ershfnyf, qvq abg xabj jubz gb
vaivgr vafgrnq, nfxrq crbcyr vasbeznyyl, be rira ol jbeq bs zbhgu, naq
sbhaq urefrys ragregnvavat unys-n-qbmra thrfgf jvgu n fhcre-nohaqnapr bs
qvfurf naq jvar, juvyr bapr ntnva gur zra jrer qerffrq, bar va n
fjnyybj-gnvy pbng naq juvgr gvr, gur bgure va n zbeavat-pbng; gur
ynqvrf, bar va n ybj-arpxrq obqvpr, gur bgure va n oybhfr: n qvfcnevgl
gung jnf pbafgnagyl tvivat gurz serfu fubpxf bs qvfznl.

Vg jnf nyjnlf n zrqyrl; naq, rira nf fur ynpxrq gur gnpg gb tvir n
fhpprffshy qvaare, fur jnf qbbzrq gb ynpx gur gnpg gb npuvrir gur
qvfgvapgvba sbe juvpu fur penirq. Ure irel uhfonaq gujnegrq ure: n
fvzcyr zna, n yvggyr obbevfu va uvf jnlf, jub gehqtrq qnvyl gb uvf
bssvpr naq onpx, pbafpvragvbhf nobhg uvf jbex yvxr n fpubbyobl svavfuvat
uvf rkrepvfrf naq qribvq bs nal cnegvphyne novyvgl be cbyvgvpny
nqebvgarff. Ur nccebirq bs jung Nqbycuvar qvq, ohg pbhyq abg haqrefgnaq
gung penivat, gung ivgny arrq bs uref sbe qvfgvapgvba. Vg jnf gehr gung
ur unq pnhtug sebz uvf jvsr gung rkhorenag fngvfsnpgvba jvgu _uvf_ jvsr,
_uvf_ ubhfr, _uvf_ puvyqera, _uvf_ sheavgher naq _uvf_ sevraqf. Ur gbb
xarj ubj gb obnfg bs _uvf_ pbng, _uvf_ bssvpr, rira _uvf_ zvavfgre,
_uvf_ frpergnel-trareny. Ohg Nqbycuvar zvtug unir fgbbq oruvaq uvz jvgu
n juvc naq jbhyq fgvyy unir hetrq uvz gb gur fhzzvgf bs rneguyl naq
Unthvfu terngarff. Ur jnf cbaqrebhf, sbt-oenvarq, n zna jub jbexrq ol
ebgr, jub jrag uvf jnl yvxr n qenhtug-bk, lrne va, lrne bhg, jvgu gur
fnzr urnil gernq bs n Qhgpu fgrre haqre urnil Qhgpu fxvrf: ur ober
jvguva uvz gur angheny vafgvapg gb or na vasrevbe, na haqreyvat, gb
erznva va gur onpxtebhaq naq gurer gb tb ba jbexvat va na npphengr,
fznyy-fbhyrq, jbegul snfuvba, va gur yvggyr tebbir va juvpu ur unq svefg
fgnegrq.

Gurl unq guerr oblf naq guerr tveyf naq gurl jrer abg onq cneragf. Gurl,
obgu bs gurz, ybirq gurve puvyqera naq gubhtug bs gurve puvyqera'f
jrysner. Ohg gurl xarj nf yvggyr bs n flfgrz bs rqhpngvba nf bs n flfgrz
bs qvaare-tvivat; naq fhpu rqhpngvba nf rkvfgrq va gurve ubhfr jnf nf
enzfunpxyr nf gurve sevraqf, gurve ebbzf, gurve gnoyrf. Vg jnf
rfcrpvnyyl jurer ure puvyqera jrer pbaprearq gung Nqbycuvar unq gung
znavn sbe univat naq qbvat rirelguvat va n irel vzcbfvat snfuvba, n
snfuvba ng yrnfg nf vzcbfvat nf gung va juvpu Oregun unq naq qvq guvatf
sbe uref. Nf Nqbycuvar, ubjrire, jnf gur bayl bar bs gur Ina Ybjrf jub
jnf, ol rkprcgvba, guevsgl, ure guevsg bsgra jntrq n frirer fgehttyr
jvgu ure lrneavat sbe jung jnf vzcbfvat. Naq fb, jurernf rirelguvat
eryngvat gb gur Ina Anturyf' ubhfrubyq naq gur rqhpngvba bs gurve
puvyqera jnf pbaqhpgrq, nf n znggre bs pbhefr, ba gur zbfg rkcrafvir
yvarf, juvpu gurl obgu erpbtavmrq nf rkcrafvir, ohg juvpu gurve gnfgrf
naq gurve znaare bs yvsr znqr vg vzcbffvoyr gb nygre, rirelguvat ng
Nqbycuvar'f jnf qbar purncyl. Naq fb, jurernf Ybhvfr naq Rzvyvr naq
Znevnaar unq orra gb rkcrafvir obneqvat-fpubbyf arne Ybaqba naq
Cnevf--terng pbhagel-ubhfrf, jurer gur qnhtugref bs jrnygul zra erprvirq
n snfuvbanoyr rqhpngvba, jvgu qnapvat-yrffbaf va onyy-qerffrf, qenjvat-,
cnvagvat- naq zhfvp-yrffbaf tvira ol jryy-xabja znfgref--Nqbycuvar,
gubhtu vajneqyl rngra hc jvgu wrnybhfl, cebabhaprq gubfr
obneqvat-fpubbyf fvzcyl nofheq naq dhvgr orlbaq ure zrnaf naq qvfpbirerq
bar arne Pyrirf, gb juvpu fur frag Sybbegwr naq Pnebyvar: n irel
erfcrpgnoyr rfgnoyvfuzrag, ohg bar jurer Trezna fubcxrrcref' qnhtugref
jrer gnxra va naq jurer n irel qvssrerag gbar cerinvyrq sebz gung bs gur
nevfgbpengvp fpubbyf arne Cnevf naq Ybaqba. Guvf, ubjrire, qvq abg
cerirag Nqbycuvar sebz rkgbyyvat _ure_ obneqvat-fpubby nf sne nobir
gubfr fvyyl, sevibybhf vafgvghgvbaf gb juvpu Oregun unq frag ure
puvyqera. Naq, nf ertneqf gur oblf, Nqbycuvar zntavsvrq _ure_ guerr
oblf, Cvrg, Puevf naq Wnnc: gur ryqrfg jnf gb ragre gur Rnfg-Vaqvna
pvivy freivpr; gur gjb bguref jrer vagraqrq sbe Oerqn naq Jvyyrzfbbeq,
juvpu jnf orggre guna gubfr gjb fcraqguevsg Yrvqra fghqragf, jub jrer ng
vg ntnva, jnagvat fbzr gubhfnaqf bs thvyqref sbe gurve nccebnpuvat
znfdhrf, naq sne orggre guna gung ynml ybhg bs n Xnery.

Nyfb, Nqbycuvar jnf nyjnlf qenjvat pbzcnevfbaf orgjrra ure Znevrgwr, n
tragyr, snve, juvgr-fxvaarq yvggyr tvey, n ovg fhoqhrq nzvq gur oyngnapl
bs gur bguref, naq Oregun'f Znevrgwr: pbzcnevfbaf vainevnoyl va ure bja
puvyq'f snibhe; ohg abj, nsgre Rzvyvr'f jrqqvat jvgu Ina Enira, fur qerj
pbzcnevfbaf zber cnegvphyneyl orgjrra Rzvyvr'f jrqqvat-cercnengvbaf naq
nyy gung fur, Nqbycuvar, jnf qbvat sbe Sybbegwr naq Qvwxreubs. Naq oent
naq obnfg nf fur zvtug, fur, gur rkprcgvba nzbat gur Ina Ybjrf, gur
guevsgl Nqbycuvar, jub pbhagrq rirel gjbcraal-ovg--jurer _qvq_ fur trg
gubfr rpbabzvpny vqrnf sebz? Znzzn ina Ybjr jbhyq fbzrgvzrf nfx
urefrys--jnf hanoyr gb pbzr jvguva unvyvat-qvfgnapr bs jung Ina Antury
naq Oregun naq gur Ina Eniraf naq gurve sevraqf ba obgu fvqrf unq qbar;
fur gubhtug vg nofheq, fur gubhtug vg syvatvat zbarl njnl, fur tehzoyrq
gb urefrys gung rirelguvat unq tbar hc fb greevoyl va cevpr: n
qrrc-ebbgrq cehqrapr--na ngnivfgvp dhnyvgl, n zlfgrevbhf
guebj-onpx--qvfnccebirq bs gung yhkhel bs cnegvrf, gebhffrnhf, cerfragf,
sybjref jvgu juvpu Rzvyvr'f jrqqvat-qnlf unq tyvggrerq; fur gubhtug vg
evqvphybhf, fur jnagrq gb qb rirelguvat zber rpbabzvpnyyl naq lrg fur
qvq abg yvxr qbvat rirelguvat fb rpbabzvpnyyl; naq fb gurer jnf na
vaprffnag fgehttyr, obgu jvgu urefrys naq jvgu Sybbegwr, jub nyfb qvq
abg jvfu gb or frpbaq gb Rzvyvr naq jub tnir ab gubhtug gb zbarl: vg jnf
bayl ure cneragf' zbarl! Ohg fgvyy, jvgu ure crphyvne tvsg bs
frys-tybevsvpngvba, Nqbycuvar jnf abj noyr gb cenvfr Sybbegwr'f
gebhffrnh gb Pngrnh nobir nyy gubfr ynpr sevccrevrf bs Rzvyvr'f.

"Zhpu av-pre naq zber ynfg-vat, _V_ guvax, Nqbycu-var!" juvarq Pngrnh.

"Lrf; naq whfg ybbx ng gubfr purzvfrf, ybbx ng gubfr gnoyr-pybguf naq
ancxvaf: gurer'f dhnyvgl gurer, lbh pna'g orng vg," fnvq Nqbycuvar,
cnggvat gur fgnpxf bs yvara va gur phcobneq. "Naq nyy gubfr fvyyl
cerfragf juvpu Rzvyvr unq, nyy gung fvyire, juvpu fur pna'g hfr: jung qb
lbhat crbcyr, jub bs pbhefr jba'g or frrvat crbcyr sbe gur svefg srj
lrnef, jnag jvgu fb zhpu fvyire? V'z irel tynq gung _bhe_ sevraqf unir
orra zber cenpgvpny va pubbfvat gurve cerfragf sbe Sybbegwr: _V_
fubhyqa'g unir orra ng nyy cyrnfrq vs Sybbegwr unq orra frg hc va ure
fvyire-phcobneq ol crbcyr jubz lbh znl pnyy npdhnvagnaprf, vs lbh yvxr,
ohg jub, nsgre nyy, ner fgenatref."

"Lr-r-rf," juvarq Pngrnh. "Ng Rzvyvr-gwr'f erprcgvba, vg ybbxrq whfg
yvxr Ina Xrz-cra'f fubc. V gubhtug vg fb ihy-tne naq pbz-zba, qvqa'g
_lbh_, Nqbycu-var?"

Gur rcvgurgf jrer abg rkprcgvbanyyl jryy-pubfra nf nccyvrq gb Ina Antury
naq Oregun--rira Nqbycuvar pbhyq frr gung--ohg fur nqzverq ure bja
chepunfrf naq _ure_ sevraqf' cerfragf gbb terngyl gb fnl fb gb Pngrnh.




PUNCGRE KKVI


Pbafgnapr znqr vg n qhgl gb tb bsgra gb Nqbycuvar'f qhevat Sybbegwr'f
jrqqvat-ceryvzvanevrf. Fur jrag bhg bs ure jnl gb or pbeqvny; fur frag n
ornhgvshy onfxrg bs sybjref ba gur qnl bs gur pbagenpg; fur tnir n
unaqfbzr cerfrag, zhpu zber rkcrafvir guna gur bar juvpu fur unq frag
Rzvyvr; naq fur fubjrq terng vagrerfg va gur cnegl naq gur qvaare gung
jrer gb or tvira ng gur Jvggr Oeht. Fur rknzvarq nggragviryl gur bcra
cerffrf jvgu gur fgnpxf bs yvara pbzcbfvat Sybbegwr'f gebhffrnh--"Whfg
ybbx ng gubfr purzvfrf; naq gubfr gnoyr-pybguf naq ancxvaf: gurer'f
dhnyvgl gurer, lbh pna'g orng vg. Whfg srry gurz, bayl srry gurz!
Jurernf gubfr sevccrevrf bs Rzvyvr'f...!"--naq yvfgrarq nggragviryl gb
gur raqyrff cqnaf bs frys-tybevsvpngvba, fcrag urefrys va nqzvengvba,
jnf qrgrezvarq gb synggre Nqbycuvar naq gb znxr n tbbq vzcerffvba ba ure
fvfgre. Orpnhfr, qhevat gubfr qnlf, fur unq pbafpvragvbhfyl frg urefrys
gur gnfx bs jvaavat bire Nqbycuvar, fur fjnyybjrq gur pevgvpvfz gung jnf
arire jnagvat, yvggyr fcvgrshy neebjf fubg bss va orgjrra gur cqnaf:

"Ubj cnyr lbh'er ybbxvat! Unir lbh orra hfvat gbb zhpu cbjqre ntnva, be
nera'g lbh jryy?... Jung n cvgl gung lbhe obl vf fhpu na byq tragyrzna,
Pbafgnapr!... Gryy zr, Pbafgnapr: lbhe sngure- naq zbgure-va-ynj jrer
abg irel avpr gb lbh, jrer gurl?... Pbafgnapr, ner gubfr evatf bs lbhef
erny?... Bu, ernyyl? Hcba zl jbeq, V gubhtug bar bs gubfr fgbarf jnf
cnfgr...."

Fur fjnyybjrq vg nyy, npprcgrq gur nssebag jvgu n tragyr fzvyr, n jbeq
bs nyzbfg nffragvat ercyl: "Lrf, Nqqvr vf engure byq-snfuvbarq.... Bu,
vg jnf irel qvssvphyg sbe Cncn naq Znzzn ina qre Jrypxr.... Lbh ner
evtug, gung fgbar vf n yvggyr qhyy fbzrgvzrf...."

Fur fjnyybjrq vg, gbbx vg nyy fb tragyl naq fb fhozvffviryl gung Nqqvr,
jura ur unccrarq gb or cerfrag, ybbxrq hc ng uvf zbgure va fhecevfr,
guvaxvat ure fb qvssrerag sebz gur jbzna jubz ur xarj, jub oynmrq bhg
sbe gur yrnfg guvat ng Cncn naq jub nyjnlf orunirq gbjneqf uvzfrys nf
gur fcbvyg yvggyr zbgure jub jnagrq gb or crggrq naq ybirq ol ure obl.
Naq gur ynq, va uvf fznyy, oevtug, rnearfg, qbhtugl fbhy, sryg n fbeg bs
nznmrzrag ng gung chmmyr bs n jbzna'f fbhy gung jnf uvf zbgure'f:

"Ner gurl nyy yvxr gung, fb dhrre? Be vf vg bayl Znzzn? Naq jul vf fur
fb sbeornevat gbjneqf Nhag Nqbycuvar, jura fur pna'g orne gur yrnfg
guvat sebz Cncn?"

Guvf znqr uvz fgvyy zber bs n yvggyr zna gbjneqf uvf zbgure, jvgu
fbzrguvat cebgrpgvat naq pbaqrfpraqvat, orpnhfr fur jnf fb jrnx naq
veerfbyhgr naq rkpvgnoyr, ohg nyfb jvgu irel zhpu gung jnf nssrpgvbangr,
orpnhfr gung fgenatr jbznayvarff cbffrffrq n punez sbe uvf fznyy znyr
fbhy.

Nqbycuvar, ubjrire, ba gur qnl jura gur pbagenpg jnf fvtarq, ng gur ovt
snzvyl-qvaare ng gur Jvggr Oeht naq gur fhofrdhrag riravat-cnegl sbe nyy
gur sevraqf naq eryngvbaf, obnfgrq nybhq va ure frys-pbzcynprapl. Fur
oenttrq gb Hapyr Ehliranre, gb Xnery naq Pngrnh, gb Pbafgnapr, gb Treevg
naq Nqryvar: _gubfr_ jrer svar ebbzf, gur ebbzf bs gur Jvggr Oeht, zhpu
svare guna gur ebbzf va gur Qbryra; gung jnf n fcyraqvq qvaare, gur
qvaare juvpu _fur_ unq tvira: vg pbfg n ybg bs zbarl, gubhtu, naq fur
gbyq ubj zhpu, ohg nqqrq n pbhcyr bs uhaqerq thvyqref gb gur pbfg; naq
qvq gurl erzrzore gung vzcbffvoyr qvaare bs Oregun'f, ng Rzvyvr'f
jrqqvat, naq gur dhrre qvfurf gung unq orra frg orsber gurz? Jnfa'g vg n
fcyraqvq qrffreg, jvgu ornhgvshy fgenjoreevrf, juvpu _fur_ unq tvira?
Naq fb _znal_ naq ng guvf frnfba, gbb: ohg lbh unq gb cnl sbe gurz! Naq
ubj tnl gurl unq orra ng gnoyr, _ure_ snzvyl--nf gubhtu gung fnzr snzvyl
jrer abg nyfb Oregun'f snzvyl--naq _ure_ sevraqf: fb irel qvssrerag sebz
gung cergragvbhf frg bs Oregun'f! Gurer jnf fhpu n tnl, fcbagnarbhf gbar
va gur fcrrpurf naq gur pbairefngvba; naq qvq Treevg erzrzore gung
qrnguyl fgvyyarff ng gnoyr ng Rzvyvrgwr'f qvaare? Fhpu avpr crbcyr,
Qvwxreubs'f cneragf, _ure_ tvey'f shgher sngure- naq zbgure-va-ynj....
Naq ubj jryy Sybbegwr ybbxrq, qvqa'g fur? Naq gur bgure tveyf jrer
cerggvyl qerffrq gbb. Fur obnfgrq fb oernguyrffyl bs rirelguvat, bs
rirel qrgnvy, gung arvgure Hapyr abe Treevg unq n fvatyr bccbeghavgl bs
rkcerffvat gurve nccerpvngvba, bs tvivat ibvpr gb gurve nqzvengvba; naq
vg jnf abg hagvy fur unq cnffrq ba, obnfgvat evtug naq yrsg gb ure
npdhnvagnaprf--"Jryy, jung qb lbh fnl gb _zl_ qvaare? Jryy, jung qb lbh
fnl gb _zl_ cnegl? Jryy, jung qb lbh guvax bs _zl qerff?_"--gung Hapyr
Ehliranre fnvq:

"Nal bar jbhyq guvax gung Nqbycuvar unq ohvyg gur Jvggr Oeht urefrys!"

"_V_ guvax," juvarq Pngrnh, "Nqbycu-var bhtuga'g gb fnl nyy gubfr guvatf
ure-frys, qba'g _lbh_, Tre-evg?"

"Jryy," fnvq Treevg, "vg'f n qryvtugshy srryvat gb or fb cyrnfrq jvgu
lbhe bja frys naq lbhe bja puvyqera naq lbhe bja qvaare. Ohg, vs lbh
guvax nf lbh qb, Pngrnh, jul qvqa'g lbh pbzcyvzrag ure lbhefrys?"

"Or-pnhfr V _guvax_," juvarq Pngrnh, juvavat jbefr guna hfhny, "gung
gung qerff qbrfa'g ybbx ng _nyy_ fzneg ba Nqbycu-var. Jung qb _lbh_
guvax, N-qryvar?"

"Bu, V qba'g xabj," fnvq Nqryvar, tbbq-angherqyl.

"Pba-fgnapr, _lbh_ unir fhpu _irel_ tbbq gnfgr: qb gryy zr, qb _lbh_
guvax gung qerff ybbxf _fzneg_?"

"V guvax Nqbycuvar ybbxf rkprrqvatyl jryy gb-avtug," fnvq Pbafgnapr,
veevgnoyl.

"V fnl, Fvffl, lbh pna'g zrna gung!" fnvq Treevg.

"Naq, rira vs lbh qba'g guvax fb, Treevg, vg'f abg avpr bs lbh gb fcrnx
yvxr gung bs lbhe fvfgre!"

"Bu, jryy, n yvggyr pevgvpvfz!..."

"Lrf, ohg gb or nyjnlf pevgvpvmvat bar nabgure vf ubeevq, V guvax," fnvq
Pbafgnapr, natevyl.

"V'z obhaq gb fnl, gubhtu, gung V guvax vg n enzfunpxyr cnegl," fnvq
Hapyr Ehliranre. "Jub ba rnegu ner nyy gurfr crbcyr?" ur pbagvahrq,
chggvat ba qvtavgl, qvfqnvashyyl. "V fnl, Gbrgvr, ner lbh rawblvat
lbhefrys?"

"Lrf, Cncn, njshyyl!" fnvq Gbrgvr, nf fur cnffrq ba ure cnegare'f nez.

Gur Ehliranre tveyf, gubhtu ab ybatre lbhat, nyjnlf rawblrq gurzfryirf
"njshyyl," abg pnevat jurgure vg jnf ng Oregun'f be Nqbycuvar'f.
Tbbq-angherq, xvaqyl, fvzcyl naq cyrnfnagyl Vaqvna va gurve jnlf, gurl
ybirq qnapvat, gurl nyjnlf rawblrq gurzfryirf "njshyyl."

"Naq, Qbgwr, jung qb lbh guvax bs _zl_ cnegl?"

"Bu, Nqbycuvar, fb wbyyl lbhe cnegl: V'z rawblvat vg njshyyl."

Naq Qbg nyfb fubar jvgu tengvghqr naq crefcvengvba nsgre qnapvat.

"Ner gubfr gur Qvwxreubsf' sevraqf?" nfxrq Znzzn ina Ybjr, va n juvfcre,
bs Oregun, tynapvat gbjneqf n tragyrzna naq n ynql jub unq orra
vagebqhprq gb ure, ohg jubfr anzr fur unq abg pnhtug. "Jung fgenatr
sevraqf gubfr Qvwxreubsf unir! Fhpu bofpher crbcyr: bar arire xabjf jub
gurl ner be jung gurl ner! Irel ihytne crbcyr, V guvax. Vg'f fhpu n
cvgl, Oregun, vfa'g vg? Qvwxreubs uvzfrys vf abg onq; naq, vs Sybbegwr
vf sbaq bs uvz, jryy, V fhccbfr vg jvyy or nyy evtug; ohg V zhfg nqzvg V
nz fbeel gung Nqbycuvar vf zvkrq hc jvgu guvf ybg.... Naq gubfr crbcyr
bire gurer, Oregun, gur fgbhg zna naq gur gnyy jbzna jvgu jubz Nqryvar
vf gnyxvat fb snzvyvneyl: ner gubfr vagvzngr sevraqf? Jung phevbhf
sevraqf fur unf!... Vg zhfg fgevxr Pbafgnapr gbb, abj gung fur'f pbzr
onpx gb vg nyy. Ng bhe ubhfr gurer jnf n pregnva unezbal, n frg, nf
gurer vf va lbhe ubhfr abj, Oregun. Ohg, ng Nqbycuvar'f, vg'f nyjnlf
fhpu n dhrre ybg, fhpu n dhrre ybg! V pna'g pnyy vg nalguvat ryfr.
Tbbqarff tenpvbhf, jung n ahzore bs phevbhf crbcyr!"

"Znzzn," fnvq Cnhy, "jung qb lbh guvax bs guvf zrantrevr bs
Nqbycuvar'f?"

"Bu, Cnhy," fvturq gur byq ynql, n yvggyr areibhfyl, "V jnf whfg fnlvat
gb Oregun ... Ohg jr zhfga'g yrg nal bar ryfr abgvpr jung jr guvax...."

"V fnl, Znzzn," nfxrq Treevg, "qb lbh xabj jub gubfr gjb ner?"

"Ab, Treevg. Ina Antury, qb lbh xabj jub gubfr gjb crbcyr ner: gung
fgbhg tragyrzna naq gung gnyy ynql?"

"Lrf, Znzzn: vg'f Oehlf naq uvf jvsr. Ur'f gur rqvgbe bs gur
_Sbabtenns:_ irel erfcrpgnoyr crbcyr, Znzzn...."

"Zl qrne Ina Antury!..."

Hggreyl crecyrkrq, gur byq ynql cnffrq ba, yrnavat ba Ina Antury'f
nez....

Pbafgnapr unq bireurneq gur pbzzragf bs gur snzvyl hcba Nqbycuvar'f
sevraqf. Fur urefrys, arjpbzre gung fur abj jnf va Unthr fbpvrgl, jnf
abg fb terngyl fgehpx ol gur snpg gung Nqbycuvar'f thrfgf pbafvfgrq bs
nyy fbegf bs qvffvzvyne ryrzragf: fur unq fbzrgvzrf ng Ebzr unq gb
fhssre vapbatehbhf ryrzragf ng ure ovt erprcgvbaf naq fur unq bsgra
sbhaq, noebnq, gung vg jnf cbffvoyr sbe jvggl, cbyvfurq, phygherq crbcyr
gb rkvfg, rira gubhtu gurl qvq abg orybat gb ure frg. Gura ntnva fur
pbafvqrerq gung, ng n jrqqvat-cnegl, juvpu jnf nggraqrq ol eryngvbaf'
eryngvbaf naq sevraqf' sevraqf, vg jnf nyzbfg varivgnoyr gung gur thrfgf
jrer fbzrgvzrf ragveryl haxabja gb bar nabgure: jnfa'g vg gur fnzr ng
Oregun'f cnegl? Lrf, Oregun unq tvira gjb riravat-cnegvrf, va beqre gb
frcnengr gur ryrzragf; ohg unqa'g gur snzvyl sbhaq snhyg jvgu guvf? Jnf
gurer abguvat ohg snhyg-svaqvat naq pevgvpvmvat va gur snzvyl; naq qvq
abar guvax evtug jung nabgure qvq? Treevg naq Cnhy jrer abj fvggvat
orfvqr ure; naq fur urneq gurz gnyxvat, pbaqrzavat, pevgvpvmvat,
evqvphyvat.

"Cbbe, qrne Zbgure: fur'f dhvgr orjvyqrerq!"

"V fnl, Cnhy, ner lbh nyybjvat lbhefrys gb or vagebqhprq gb Qvwxreubs'f
hapyrf naq nhagf?"

"V'z abg tbvat gb or vagebqhprq gb nabgure fbhy," fnvq Cnhy, jrnevyl
oyvaxvat uvf rlrf. "V'z urer gb znxr fghqvrf. Gur bayl jnl gb nzhfr
lbhefrys va n Abnu'f nex yvxr guvf cnegl bs Nqbycuvar'f vf gb znxr
fghqvrf bs gur navzny fvqr bs znaxvaq. Ybbx ng Zef. Oehlf rngvat ure
pnxr jvgu na nyzbfg navzny fngvfsnpgvba. Ybbx ng gung hapyr bs
Qvwxreubs'f qnapvat jvgu Ina Fnrgmrzn'f pbhfva: vg'f nyzbfg qvfthfgvat."

"Cnhy," fnvq Pbafgnapr, "V'ir xabja lbh jvggvre guna lbh ner gb-avtug."

"Zl qrne fvfgre, V srry zlfrys tebjvat qhyy urer. Gur svtherf naq
pbybhef fjnez orsber zl rlrf fb uvqrbhfyl nf ernyyl gb pnhfr zr culfvpny
cnva. Zl Tbq, gur punez bs bhe zbqrea yvsr, gur punez ng na
riravat-cnegl bs Nqbycuvar'f: jurer vf vg, jurer vf vg?"

"Vg'f tbar, vg'f tbar!" Treevg abvfvyl qrpynvzrq. "Nqbycuvar'f punez vf
tbar!"

"V qba'g guvax rvgure bs lbh ng nyy avpr!" Pbafgnapr oebxr va,
veevgnoyl. "Gryy zr, zl qrne oebguref, vf guvf vebal, guvf snhyg-svaqvat
gbar, hfhny nzbat hf? Unf vg orpbzr n phfgbz sbe gur oebguref naq
fvfgref gb pnec naq pnivy ng bar nabgure--naq rira sbe Znzzn gb pnivy ng
ure puvyqera--nf V unir urneq lbh nyy qb gb-avtug? Qbrf rnpu bs hf
pevgvpvmr gur bgure va n trareny pebff-sver bs pevgvpvfz? V urneq
fbzrguvat bs gur xvaq ng Oregun'f cnegl; ohg vf gurer ernyyl abguvat
tbbq urer gb-avtug? V srry obhaq gb gryy lbh V guvax lbh irel crggl,
cebivapvny, aneebj-zvaqrq naq pyvdhrl: rira lbh, Cnhy, sbe nyy lbhe
cuvybfbcul! Lbh, Treevg, ner nsenvq bs qrzrnavat lbhefrys ol nyybjvat
lbhefrys gb or vagebqhprq gb n srj bs Qvwxreubs'f hapyrf naq nhagf, jubz
creuncf lbh jba'g frr guerr gvzrf ntnva nf ybat nf lbh yvir; naq, nf sbe
lbh, Cnhy, jul ner lbh fb fcvgrshy va lbhe pbzzragf ba nofbyhgr
fgenatref jub qba'g rng n pnxr va gur rknpg jnl juvpu lbh nccebir bs? V
guvax Hapyr Ehliranre evqvphybhf: ur'f abg cnegvphyneyl jryy-oerq
uvzfrys naq ur farref ng gur oerrqvat bs Ina Fnrgmrzn'f sevraqf; V guvax
Pngrnh evqvphybhf: fur unfa'g gur snvagrfg cergrafvbaf gb fznegarff,
gubhtu ure pybgurf znl or tbbq naq fhofgnagvny, naq fur pevgvpvmrf
Nqbycuvar'f fznegarff...."

"B qrne, tragyr fbhy!" fnvq Cnhy, nssrpgrqyl, naq gbbx Pbafgnapr' unaq.
"B cebhq naq aboyr bar! B urebvar va n fnperq pnhfr! Lbh ner n
eriryngvba gb zr! Ubj oebnq ner gur cevapvcyrf juvpu lbh cebpynvz, ubj
terng lbhe gbyrenapr! Vg vf greevoyr! Bayl lbh, lbh qrne, tragyr fbhy,
ner abg fb fcnevat bs gur pevgvpvfz juvpu lbh pevgvpvmr va hf."

"Irel jryy, V pevgvpvmrq lbh, sbe bapr; ohg lbh'er pevgvpvmvat bguref
rireynfgvatyl."

"Ab, abg dhvgr; ohg jr'er bayl irel fznyy crbcyr naq jr guvax vg sha gb
cnff erznexf ba bguref," fnvq Treevg.

"V nz n irel fznyy crefba, yvxr lbhefryirf. V unir arire zrg ovt crbcyr,
va bhe 'frg,'" fnvq Pbafgnapr, jvgu n farre. "Jung vf nal bar va bhe frg
_ohg_ fznyy?"

"Tbbq!" fnvq Cnhy. "Jryy qbar! Lbh tbg gung sebz zr. Ohg cebprrq, zl
sbaq qvfpvcyr!"

"V nz sevtugrarq!" fnvq Pbafgnapr, rnearfgyl. "Lbh guvax V nz bayl whfg
rkpvgvat zlfrys n yvggyr, ohg V'z sevtugrarq, V'z fvzcyl sevtugrarq. V
urne fb zhpu pevgvpvfz sebz gur zbhguf bs zl eryngvbaf ba rirel fvqr,
pevgvpvfz ba n qerff, ba na riravat-cnegl, ba n pbhcyr bs hggre
fgenatref jub unccra gb or sevraqf bs zl fvfgre'f, gung V nz sevtugrarq
bs gur pevgvpvfz bs zl eryngvbaf pbapreavat zlfrys, zlfrys va jubz gurer
vf fb zhpu gb pevgvpvmr."

"Pbzr, Fvf!" fnvq Treevg, tbbq-angherqyl, erfgyrffyl fgergpuvat bhg uvf
ybat yrtf.

"Znla'g V fcrnx bhg zl zvaq, gb zl oebguref?" nfxrq Pbafgnapr. "Unir V
pbzr onpx gb gur Unthr naq gb nyy bs lbh, nsgre orvat njnl sbe lrnef, gb
orunir nf gubhtu abguvat unq unccrarq gb frcnengr zr sebz nyy bs lbh jub
ner qrne gb zr?"

"B graqre bar!" fnvq Cnhy. "Urnexra hagb gur jbeqf bs jvfqbz bs lbhe
lbhatre oebgure! Lbh'er nsenvq bs pevgvpvfz, orpnhfr lbh srne gung,
jurer fb zhpu pevgvpvfz vf cnffrq, va fhpu n ubg-orq bs pevgvpvfz nf bhe
snzvyl, lbh lbhefrys jvyy abg rfpncr n frirer whqtzrag. Ohg yrg zr gryy
lbh abj gung lbh qba'g xabj uhznavgl, gur uhznavgl bs fznyy crbcyr.
Fznyy crbcyr pevgvpvmr--orpnhfr gurl guvax vg sha, nf Treevg
fnlf--pevgvpvmr n qerff, be na riravat-cnegl, ohg gurl arire pevgvpvmr
yvsr. Gb ortva jvgu, gurl'er nsenvq gb: fznyy crbcyr ner vagrerfgrq bayl
va jung vf abg frevbhf, va jung vf ernyyl abg jbegu juvyr."

"V qba'g oryvrir lbh," fnvq Pbafgnapr. "Gung'f n pyrire cuenfr, Cnhy,
naq abguvat zber. V nz orpbzvat qvfgehfgshy. Jura V urne fb zhpu
pevgvpvmvat--rira sebz Znzzn--ba Nqbycuvar, V nfx zlfrys, 'Jung jvyy zl
zbgure, jung jvyy zl oebguref naq fvfgref svaq gb fnl bs zr?...' Bu,
creuncf vg pna'g or urycrq; creuncf rirelguvat vf vafvaprer, va bhe
frg!"

"Ohg abg va bhe snzvyl," fnvq Treevg.

"Lbh fnl gung, Treevg, jvgu n avpr fbhaq va lbhe ibvpr."

"Gur pncgnva bs uhffnef jvgu gur avpr fbhaq va uvf ibvpr!" fnvq Cnhy.

"Lbh fvyyl obl! Or frevbhf sbe n zbzrag, vs lbh pna! V nz sevtugrarq, V
nz sevtugrarq. Ubarfgyl, vg znxrf zr areibhf. Creuncf V qvq jebat,
creuncf V bhtug abg gb unir pbzr onpx urer, gb gur Unthr, nzbat nyy bs
lbh...."

"Ner lbh fb qvfnccbvagrq va lbhe oebguref naq fvfgref?" nfxrq Treevg.

"V nz abg pbzcynvavat ba zl bja orunys abj, V nz pbzcynvavat ba orunys
bs Nqbycuvar. V guvax lbh bguref ner abg gbyrenag rabhtu bs nalguvat
gung qbrf abg nccrny gb lbhe gnfgr. Gung'f nyy. V nz abg pbzcynvavat nf
sne nf V'z pbaprearq. Lbh unir nyy erprvirq zr irel avpryl; bayl, V nz
sevtugrarq. V'z sevtugrarq, V'z sevtugrarq.... Gryy zr, vf vg cbffvoyr
gung gurer fubhyq or n fgebat snzvyl-srryvat, n zhghny xvaqyvarff, jura
gur qnvyl pevgvpvfz vf fb varkbenoyr?"

"Gur qnvyl pevgvpvfz va gur snzvyl: jung n tbbq gvgyr sbe na rffnl!"

"Cnhy, qb or frevbhf!"

"Zl qrne Pbaavr, lbh xabj V pna'g. Nynf, V pna bayl or frevbhf jura V nz
ubyqvat sbegu zlfrys!"

"Jryy, gura, V'yy yrg lbh gnyx...."

"Gung'f trarebhf bs lbh. Zl Pbaavr, lbh zhfg erzrzore guvf--vg'f n pehry
ynj va bhe fbpvny yvsr--gung cneragf pner zhpu sbe gurve puvyqera, ohg
puvyqera yrff sbe gurve cneragf; gung gur snzvyl-obaqf orpbzr fgvyy
ybbfre orgjrra oebguref naq fvfgref; naq gung gubfr obaqf tenqhnyyl
orpbzr jubyyl ybbfrarq orgjrra hapyrf naq nhagf naq arcurjf naq avrprf
naq pbhfvaf. Snzvyl-yvsr znl unir rkvfgrq va gur qnlf bs gur byq
cngevnepuf, jub jrag vagb gur jvyqrearff jvgu fbaf naq qnhtugref naq
ureqf, ohg vg unf prnfrq gb rkvfg va bhe zbqrea qnlf. Ng Treevg'f,
nygubhtu ur unf ab ureqf, n yvggyr ovg bs vg znl fgvyy rkvfg, orpnhfr
uvf puvyqera ner irel znal naq irel fznyy. Ohg, jura puvyqera ner n
yvggyr ovttre, gurl jnag gb fgergpu gurve jvatf; naq gura gur
snzvyl-obaqf trg ybbfrarq. Vs puvyqera zneel, gura rnpu puvyq unf uvf
bja snzvyl--sbe fb ybat nf vg ynfgf--naq uvf bja vagrerfgf; naq gur
obaqf gung obhaq gbtrgure gur cngevnepuny snzvyl bs gur qrfreg sync
yvtugyl va gur jvaq. Abj ubj pna lbh rkcrpg pevgvpvfz, gur terngrfg naq
purncrfg 'sha' gung zna pna unir ng uvf sryybj-zna'f rkcrafr, abg gb or
qverpgrq ng eryngvbaf, jura gur jbeq 'eryngvba' vf ernyyl bayl n flabalz
sbe 'fgenatre'? Gurer vf ab fhpu guvat nf gur snzvyl va zbqrea fbpvrgl.
Rnpu zna vf uvzfrys. Ohg va angherf fhpu nf lbhef naq Znzzn'f gurer
erznvaf fbzrguvat avpr naq ngnivfgvp gung orybatf gb gur cngevnepuny
snzvyl bs gur qrfreg: lbh jbhyq yvxr gb frr gur snzvyl rkvfg, jvgu
snzvyl-ybir, ybir bs cneragf sbe puvyqera naq puvyqera sbe cneragf, bs
oebguref naq fvfgref naq rira arcurjf naq avrprf naq hapyrf naq nhagf
naq pbhfvaf. Znzzn, jub unf n fvzcyr angher, unf vafgvghgrq, sbe gur
fngvfslvat bs gung srryvat, n jrrxyl riravat ng juvpu jr, jub ner
eryngrq ol oybbq ohg abg ol vagrerfg, zrrg bhg bs qrsrerapr sbe na byq
jbzna jubz jr qb abg jnag gb tevrir, jubz jr jvfu gb yrnir va ure
vyyhfvba. Lbh, zl aboyr, tragyr bar, jvgu lbhe zber pbzcyrk punenpgre,
srry n zber cbjreshy lrneavat sbe gur byq cngevnepuny yvsr bs gur
qrfreg, rfcrpvnyyl nsgre gur fbeebj naq ybaryvarff juvpu lbh unir xabja
va lbhe yvsr. Naq lbh pbzr gb gur Unthr, jvgu lbhe cnfgbeny vqrnf, gb
svaq lbhefrys va gur zvqfg bs cbyvfurq pnaavonyf, jub eraq bar nabgure
qnvyl vagb gval cvrprf naq rng bar nabgure hc jvgu gurve
snzvyl-pevgvpvfz. Gung lbhe tragyr angher fubhyq or fubpxrq ng gur
fcrpgnpyr jnf bayl gb or rkcrpgrq."

"Fb jr ner nyy fgenatref gb bar nabgure," fnvq Pbafgnapr; naq n puvyyl
srryvat cnffrq bire ure, n zrynapubyl ebfr jvguva ure ng gur fbhaq bs
gubfr jbeqf bs Cnhy'f, unys onagre, unys rnearfg. "Jr ner fgenatref gb
bar nabgure. Gung srryvat juvpu V sryg gb or qrrc naq gehr jvguva
zlfrys, jura V jnf noebnq, naq juvpu qebir zr onpx gb zl snzvyl naq zl
pbhagel vf jung lbh pnyy ngnivfgvp naq unf ab ernfba sbe rkvfgrapr,
fvapr jr ab ybatre yvir va Zbfnvp gvzrf. Fb jr ner fgenatref gb bar
nabgure, jr jub, sbe Znzzn'f fnxr, pbagvahr gb terrg bar nabgure nf
eryngvbaf bapr n jrrx, ng ure Fhaqnlf, orpnhfr bgurejvfr jr fubhyq tvir
ure cnva; naq zl ybatvat sbe lbh nyy, jubz V unq abg frra sbe gjragl
lrnef, zl lrneavat sbe lbh, juvpu oebhtug zr onpx gb zl bja pbhagel, jnf
ab zber guna na vyyhfvba, n cunagbz?..."

"Jryy, Pbaavr, creuncf V jnf pehry; ohg, ernyyl, lbh ner fb cnfgbeny!
Pbhagel, angvir pbhagel! Zl qrne puvyq, jung ornhgvshy cuenfrf: ubj jryy
lbh erzrzore lbhe Qhgpu! V unir sbetbggra gur irel jbeqf."

"Fvf, qrne," Treevg vagreehcgrq, "qba'g yvfgra gb gur sryybj: ur'f
gnyxvat abafrafr. Ur qravrf rirelguvat orpnhfr ur ybirf gb urne uvzfrys
fcrnx naq orpnhfr ur vf n uhzoht: gb-zbeebj ur jvyy or qrsraqvat gur
pbhagel naq gur snzvyl whfg nf ur vf qrzbyvfuvat gura gb-avtug, Ab, Fvf,
oryvrir zr, gurer ner fhpu guvatf nf snzvyl naq bar'f angvir pbhagel."

"Yvfgra gb gur pncgnva, gur qrsraqre bs uvf pbhagel, jvgu gur avpr fbhaq
va uvf ibvpr!"

"Gurer vf fhpu n guvat nf snzvyl. Abg bayl jvgu zr, orpnhfr zl puvyqera
ner fgvyy lbhat, nf Cnhy unf orra gelvat gb rkcynva, ohg rireljurer,
rireljurer. V srry gung lbh ner zl fvfgre, rira gubhtu V qvqa'g frr lbh
sbe gjragl lrnef. V qvq abg erpbtavmr lbh ng bapr, creuncf; creuncf V
unir abg dhvgr tbg lbh onpx lrg: jura V guvax bs Pbafgnapr, V nyjnlf
guvax bs zl yvggyr fvfgre jub hfrq gb cynl va gur evire ng
Ohvgrambet...."

"Bu, Treevg, qba'g ortva nobhg zl oner srrg ntnva!" fnvq Pbafgnapr,
envfvat ure svatre.

"Ohg V srry gung lbh ner abg n fgenatre, gung gurer vf n obaq orgjrra
hf, n eryngvbafuvc, fbzrguvat nyzbfg zlfgvpny...."

"Bu, V fnl, jung n cbrgvp pncgnva bs uhffnef!" pevrq Cnhy. "Bapr ur yrgf
uvzfrys tb...!"

"Naq pbhagel, bar'f angvir pbhagel," Treevg pbagvahrq, vzcrghbhfyl,
"gurer vf fhpu n guvat nf bar'f pbhagel: V srry vg va zr, Cnhy, lbh
fprcgvp naq cuvybfbcure, byq orsber lbhe gvzr; V srry vg va zr, abg nf
fbzrguvat cbrgvpny naq zlfgvpny, zl obl, yvxr gur snzvyl-srryvat, ohg nf
fbzrguvat dhvgr fvzcyr, jura V evqr ng gur urnq bs zl fdhnqeba; V srry
vg nf fbzrguvat ovt naq cevzvgvir naq abg ng nyy pbzcyrk, jura V rfpbeg
zl Dhrra; V srry gung gurer rkvfgf sbe zr n ynaq jurer V jnf obea, bhg
bs juvpu V unir tebja...."

"Nqryvragwr!" Cnhy orpxbarq. "Qb pbzr urer, Nqryvragwr! Lbhe uhfonaq vf
fb cbrgvp, lbh zhfg ernyyl yvfgra gb uvz."

Gur snve-unverq yvggyr zbgure pnzr hc.

"V srry gung, vs nal bar fnlf nalguvat nobhg Ubyynaq, nobhg zl angvir
ynaq, pevgvpvmrf vg, fcrnxf n qvferfcrpgshy jbeq bs zl fbirervta, V srry
fbzrguvat urer, urer, va zl oernfg...."

"Nqryvragwr, qb yvfgra! Lbhe uhfonaq vf abg na bengbe, ohg fgvyy ur
srryf gung ur srryf fbzrguvat; va fubeg, ur srryf! Ybhq purref sbe gur
pncgnva bs uhffnef jvgu gur fbsg abgr va uvf ibvpr naq gur zlfgvp
srryvatf!"

"Treevg, gurl'er grnfvat lbh!" fnvq Nqryvar.

Treevg fuehttrq uvf fubhyqref, n yvggyr natevyl, n yvggyr hapbzsbegnoyl,
naq fgergpurq uvf ybat yrtf npebff gur pnecrg.

"Treevg," fnvq Pbafgnapr, "V'z tynq lbh fnvq jung lbh qvq."

"Vg'f nyy abafrafr," tebjyrq Treevg. "Gurer vf n graqrapl, abg bayl va
Cnhy,--ur'f n uhzoht--ohg va nyy fbegf bs crbcyr va bhe frg, Pbafgnapr,
bs juvpu lbh jrer fcrnxvat fb fpbeashyyl whfg abj, gb eha Ubyynaq qbja,
gb guvax abguvat Qhgpu tbbq, gb guvax bhe ynathntr htyl, gb guvax
rirelguvat Serapu, Ratyvfu be Trezna orggre guna Qhgpu. Gubfr ner lbhe
fzneg Qhgpu crbcyr, Pbafgnapr, lbhe Unthr crbcyr, jubz lbh zrrg va
Oregun'f qenjvat-ebbz, Pbafgnapr. Vs gurl tb noebnq sbe n pbhcyr bs
zbaguf, gurl'ir sbetbggra gurve zbgure-gbathr jura gurl pbzr onpx; ohg
yrg gurz or guerr lrnef jvgubhg tbvat gb Cnevf, Ybaqba be Oreyva,
gurl'yy arire, arire, arire sbetrg gurve Serapu, gurve Ratyvfu be gurve
Trezna! Bu, gurl xabj gurve sbervta ynathntrf fb jryy!"

"Treevg," fnvq Cnhy, "jung lbh fnl vf gehr; ohg whfg gel naq fnl vg va
svar Qhgpu, Treevg!"

"Naq, Fvf," pbagvahrq Treevg, fgnzzrevat n yvggyr, ohg shyy bs zrggyr,
"gung vf jul V guvax vg fb avpr gung lbh, n jbzna yvxr lbh, jub unir
yvirq sbe lrnef va Ebzr, va whfg gung fzneg, pbfzbcbyvgna jbeyq jurer
cngevbgvfz graqf gb qvfnccrne, gung lbh, jub unir orra njnl sebz lbhe
pbhagel sbe gjragl lrnef, gung whfg lbh unir sryg njnxra va
lbhefrys...."

"Oenib!" pevrq Cnhy. "Uvf jbeqf ner pbzvat!"

"N srryvat sbe lbhe pbhagel, sbe lbhe zbgureynaq, gung znqr lbh ybat gb
frr Ubyynaq ntnva. V jbhyq arire unir fhfcrpgrq vg va lbh; naq gung,
Fvffl, vf jul V fubhyq nyzbfg yvxr gb xvff lbh ... ohg jr'er ng n
cnegl...."

"Naq n cnegl bs Nqbycuvar'f vagb gur onetnva. Naq Nqryvragwr vf
wrnybhf."

"Ab, V'z abg!" fnvq Nqryvar, tbbq-angherqyl.

"Jryy, gura, Pbaavr, urer tbrf!"

Naq Treevg tnir uvf fvfgre na bssunaq xvff.

"Lbh'er n pbhcyr bs cnfgbeny punenpgref!" fnvq Cnhy. "V pna'g pbzcrgr
jvgu lbh."

"Naq abj, Pbafgnapr, n tynff bs punzcntar ... gb qevax gb nyy gur snzvyl
naq gb bhe angvir ynaq," fnvq Treevg; naq, jvgu Pbafgnapr ba uvf nez, ur
jnyxrq npebff gur ebbz gb gur ohssrg.

"Nqryvragwr," fnvq Cnhy, "jnf gurer rire fhpu n znqzna nf lbhe uhfonaq?"

Ohg Nqbycuvar nccebnpurq gevhzcunag, genvyvat ure fngva genva, juvpu fur
gubhtug zntavsvprag, naq, enqvnag jvgu frys-pbzcynprapl, nfxrq:

"Nqryvar, gryy zr abj, jung qb lbh guvax bs _zl_ cnegl?"

"Bu, ornhgvshy, Nqbycuvar!" fnvq Nqryvar.

"Nqbycuvar," fnvq Cnhy, "lbhe cnegl vf fvzcyl qnmmyvat. V unir orra gb
znal cnegvrf va zl yvsr, ohg bar yvxr gb-avtug'f, arire!"

"Naq n tbbq qvaare, jnfa'g vg?"

"Gur qvaare jnf fb tbbq, vg pbhyqa'g unir orra orggre."

"Ubj qb lbh yvxr zl arj qerff, Nqryvar? Whfg frr ubj vg svgf."

Fur cnffrq ure unaqf bire ure obfbz.

"Vg'f n irel punezvat qerff, Nqbycuvar," fnvq Nqryvar.

"Nqbycuvar," fnvq Cnhy, "gung iryirg ba gur pbyyne bs Fnrgmrzn'f
pbng...."

"Lrf?..."

"Gung'f _tbbq_ iryirg."

"Lrf, gurl'er uvf arj qerff-pybgurf, sebz Grhavffra'f."

"Naq gung fngva bs Sybbegwr'f qerff...."

"Lrf?..."

"Gung'f _tbbq_ fngva."

"Bu, jung qb lbh xabj nobhg fngva?"

"Rirel bar'f fnlvat fb."

"Ernyyl?"

"Lrf, V urneq gurz fnlvat fb nyy bire gur ebbz."

"Abg ernyyl?"

"Lrf, nf V zbirq nobhg nzbat gur crbcyr, V urneq vg juvfcrerq ba rirel
fvqr, yvxr n ehzbhe: 'Unir lbh abgvprq gur fngva bs Sybbegwr'f qerff?...
V fnl, qvq lbh abgvpr gur fngva bs Sybbegwr'f qerff?...'"

Nqbycuvar ybbxrq inthryl va sebag bs ure, abg xabjvat jung gb oryvrir:

"Jryy, gung sebpx pbfg ... n uhaqerq naq gjragl thvyqref!" fur fnvq,
ylvat gb gur rkgrag bs sbegl thvyqref; naq, enqvnag, fur jrag ba naq
gnyxrq gb Zef. Oehlf, gur jvsr bs gur rqvgbe bs gur _Sbabtenns:_

"Naq, zriebhj, jung qb lbh fnl gb _zl_ cnegl?"

"Cnhy," fnvq Nqryvar, va tragyr ercebnpu, "V jnf ernyyl sevtugrarq gung
Nqbycuvar jbhyq abgvpr...."




PUNCGRE KKI


Pbafgnapr jnf unccl. Fur ortna gb ernyvmr zber naq zber gung fur abj unq
jung fur unq zvffrq sbe lrnef: ure snzvyl; fur uryq vg n cevivyrtr
qrnere rirel qnl gung fur jnf onpx va ure bja pbhagel, va Ubyynaq. Vg
jnf nf gubhtu fur orpnzr zber naq zber crargengrq jvgu gur pbafpvbhfarff
gung fur unq sbhaq nyy ure arne barf ntnva, gung gurl unq bar naq nyy
sbetvira ure gur cnfg; naq fbzrgvzrf fur vzntvarq gung vg jnf abg ernyyl
gjragl lrnef fvapr fur jrag njnl: gubfr gjragl lrnef frrzrq gb fuevax.
Va ure oebguref naq fvfgref fur erpbtavmrq ol qrterrf nyy gur
crphyvnevgvrf bs sbezre qnlf, whfg nf gubhtu gurl unq tebja ab byqre;
naq Znzzn unq erznvarq rknpgyl gur fnzr. Abe pbhyq fur ohg nqzver
frpergyl gur nyzbfg puvyqyvxr fvzcyvpvgl bs Ina qre Jrypxr, jub zbirq
nobhg pnyzyl va gur zvqfg bs ure eryngvbaf, gubhtu gurl jrer nyy hggre
fgenatref gb uvz naq gubhtu ur; bs pbhefr, pbhyq unir ab snzvyl-srryvat
sbe nal bs gurz. Ur jnf zbfg vagvzngr jvgu Cnhy naq bsgrarfg va uvf
pbzcnal. Pbafgnapr jbhyq unir yvxrq gb frr zber bs Oregun, ohg vg jnf
gehr, gurl yvirq ng fbzr qvfgnapr sebz rnpu bgure; naq lrg gurl sbhaq
rnpu bgure ntnva, nf fvfgref, va gung pbairefngvba fubegyl nsgre
Rzvyvr'f zneevntr. Pbafgnapr vaqrrq jnf fhecevfrq gung na bcra-urnegrq
gnyx fhpu nf guvf jnf abg zber bsgra erarjrq orgjrra Oregun naq urefrys;
ohg, va nal pnfr, gurl abj sryg nf fvfgref. Nf sbe Xnery naq Pngrnh, ab,
gurl erznvarq qvfgnag naq fgenatref, jrer uneqyl zber vagvzngr jvgu ure
guna vs gurl unq orra erzbgr npdhnvagnaprf; ohg Treevg unq pbaprvirq n
fbeg bs cnffvba sbe Pbafgnapr; naq, vanfzhpu nf fur unq fubja fb zhpu
gbyrenapr gbjneqf Nqbycuvar, gur ynggre ernyyl frrzrq n yvggyr zber
tragyl qvfcbfrq gb ure, sbe Nqbycuvar erzrzorevat nyy Pbafgnapr'
nqzvengvba naq cenvfr bs Sybbegwr'f gebhffrnh, unq orra urneq gb fnl:

"Fur'f abg fb onq, Pbafgnapr; Pbafgnapr pna or engure avpr jura fur
cyrnfrf."

Vg jnf fhzzre abj; naq Pbafgnapr sryg unccl. Oregun naq ure puvyqera
jrag gb Fjvgmreynaq, jurer Ina Antury jnf gb wbva gurz va Nhthfg, naq
Nqbycuvar jrag sbe n zbagu gb gur Euvar, ohg Znzzn erznvarq ng gur
Unthr; naq Pbafgnapr jnf qryvtugrq gb frr ure zbgure rirel qnl. Gurl
bsgra qebir bhg gbtrgure; naq gurl jbhyq yrnir gur pneevntr va gur
Fpuriravatra "Jbbqf" be va gur Unthr "Jbbq" naq jnyx nybat gur cnguf.
Naq Znzzn nyjnlf gnyxrq nobhg gur puvyqera, be gur tenaqpuvyqera, be gur
gjb terng-tenaqpuvyqera: gur puvyqera bs Bggb naq Senaprf, jub unq tbar
gb Fjvgmreynaq jvgu gur bguref. Nf Oregun jnf abg ng gur Unthr gung
fhzzre, gur byq jbzna unq genafsreerq ure cnegvnyvgl gb Treevg'f
puvyqera, guvaxvat gurz avpr orpnhfr gurl jrer fb lbhat. Naq fb fur naq
Pbafgnapr bsgra jrag gb Treevg'f naq sbhaq uvz va gur yvggyr
zbeavat-ebbz, ernql gb tb bhg, va havsbez, enggyvat uvf fjbeq, pyvaxvat
uvf fchef; snve-unverq naq urnil naq fgebat va uvf gvtug havsbez naq
ineavfurq evqvat-obbgf, juvyr gjb fznyy tveyf naq gjb fznyy oblf, nyy
snve-unverq, synkra-unverq, jvgu fbsg, cvax purrxf, pyvzorq bire uvz
jurer ur fcenjyrq va uvf ovt rnfl-punve: Treql naq Nqryrgwr naq Nyrk naq
yvggyr Thl; juvyr gur ryqrfg, Znevrgwr, rvtug lrnef byq, yvsgrq gur
yvggyr onol urnivyl va ure nezf, naq n ovttre onol penjyrq nzbat gur
yrtf bs gur gnoyr naq punvef va frnepu bs n oebxra qbyy. Va gur zvqfg bs
guvf snve-unverq zrqyrl--nyy gur puvyqera qryvpngryl ohvyg yvxr qbyyf,
jvgu gurve synkra pheyf naq gurve fbsg, cvax oyhfurf--Treevg jnf yvxr n
tvnag, ybbxrq fgvyy gnyyre naq fgebatre; uvf havsbez svyyrq gur ebbz nf
ur zbirq; ebzcvat jvgu uvf puvyqera, ur frrzrq noyr, jvgu bar zbirzrag,
gb fraq gurz nyy--Thl naq Nyrk naq Nqryrgwr naq Treql, jub uhat ba gb
uvf nezf naq unaqf--ghzoyvat bire gur sybbe, gb gur greebe bs
Tenaqznzzn, jub gubhtug uvz gbb ebhtu; ohg Nqryvar jnf nyjnlf irel pnyz,
urefrys nyfb snve, fbsgyl-fzvyvat, fur gbb, jvgu ure qryvpngr yvggyr
snve snpr, ure svther nyernql nffhzvat gur engure zngebayl cebcbegvbaf
bs n yvggyr jvsr jub unf znal puvyqera naq jub, nygubhtu lbhat, unf ybfg
nyy pbdhrgel va ertneq gb fyraqrearff. Fur jnf fvzcyr naq tragyr, whfg n
fznyy, snve yvggyr jbzna, sbe rire ornevat puvyqera gb ure terng, urnil
uhfonaq, nf n qhgl bs juvpu fur qvq abg guvax zhpu, orpnhfr Treevg
jvfurq vg: n angher bs fzvyvat erfvtangvba, nyjnlf cyrnfnag naq pnyz,
arire rkpvgrq be hcfrg orpnhfr bs ure gheohyrag yvggyr oebbq naq nyjnlf
pnyzyl cresbezvat ure zbgureyl yvggyr qhgvrf. Fur jnf rkcrpgvat ure
rvtugu va Abirzore; naq gurer frrzrq gb or nyjnlf ebbz va gur fznyy
ubhfr sbe zber naq zber gheohyrag, snve-unverq puvyqera. Gura Znzzn ina
Ybjr, jub unq pbzr jvgu Pbafgnapr nsgre yhapu, jbhyq nfx:

"Jryy, jub'f pbzvat sbe n qevir jvgu Tenaal?..."

Naq hfhnyyl vg jnf fb neenatrq gung, orfvqrf Nqryvar urefrys, fbzr sbhe
snve-unverq yvggyr barf jrer gnxra vagb gur ynaqnh: guerr bs gur
puvyqera jrer pebjqrq vafvqr naq Nyrk jrag ba gur obk, ragehfgrq gb gur
fcrpvny pner bs gur pbnpuzna. Gura Znzzn ina Ybjr'f snpr ornzrq jvgu
wbl, juvyr n ybat qevir jnf gnxra guebhtu Ibbeohet, Jnffranne be
Ibbefpubgra, naq gur puvyqera jrer ertnyrq ba zvyx, vs gur bccbeghavgl
bssrerq. Be ryfr gurl zreryl qebir gb Fpuriravatra; naq Zef. ina Ybjr
znqr dhvgr n fgve ng Oreraonx'f, rirel bar fgnevat ng gur pneevntr bhg
bs juvpu, orfvqrf gur guerr ynqvrf, pnzr gur guerr yvggyr puvyqera,
juvyr Nyrk fpenzoyrq qbja sebz gur obk. Gur jnvgre jbhyq chg gjb gnoyrf
gbtrgure; naq vprf naq cnfgel jrer beqrerq. Naq, jurernf, ng gur Ina
Anturyf' ubhfr, gur byq jbzna rawblrq nobir nyy gur irarre bs fgngr
juvpu qvfgvathvfurq gurve yvsr, gur yvsr gung erzvaqrq ure bs ure bja
terng qnlf, fur rawblrq urefrys va n qvssrerag jnl nzvq gung yvggyr
oebbq bs Nqryvar'f, rawblrq nyy gung snve-unverq, zreel, angheny
lbhgushyarff, jurer gurer jrer ab cergrafvbaf jungrire gb fgngr: fur jnf
ab ybatre gur jbeyqyl tenaqznzzn, vagrerfgrq va bssvpvny qvaaref naq
erprcgvbaf naq gur Ehffvna zvavfgre, ohg gur enqvnag tenaqznzzn, jub
erwbvprq ng univat fb znal qrne yvggyr tenaqpuvyqera, nyy fb lbhat. Vg
jnf cyrnfnag, fur jbhyq fnl gb Pbafgnapr, gung Treevg unq zneevrq engure
yngr--ur jnf guvegl-svir jura ur zneevrq--orpnhfr guebhtu gung, fur
fnvq, fur unq fb znal lbhat tenaqpuvyqera. Naq vg jnf avpr, fur fnvq,
gung gurl jrer Ina Ybjrf, gur bayl yvggyr Ina Ybjrf, guerr yvggyr fbaf
gb xrrc gur anzr nyvir, sbe Xnery unq ab puvyqera; naq Reafg naq Cnhy
jrer fher arire gb zneel, fur gubhtug. Naq, gubhtu fur qvq abg pner zhpu
sbe gur anzr naq erpxbarq nyy tenaqpuvyqera nf cebsvg, nf fb zhpu gb gur
tbbq, fur arireguryrff sryg zbfg sbe gur yvggyr Ina Ybjrf, sbe gur guerr
yvggyr oblf rfcrpvnyyl, sbe gur urvef bs gur anzr juvpu fur unq zneevrq.
Naq fb, juvyr jvagre jnf gur gvzr juvpu fur rawblrq ng gur Ina Anturyf',
fur qribgrq ure fhzzre ng gur Unthr gb Treevg naq Nqryvar. Fur urycrq
Nqryvar, jub unq gb or irel pnershy jvgu n zbqrengr vapbzr naq fhpu n
ynetr gebbc bs yvggyr barf, naq erthyneyl, va gur fhzzre, gur byq ynql
qerffrq gur snve-unverq yvggyr puvyqera, tnir gurz nyy fbzrguvat, fnj
gung gurl unq cerggl pybgurf gb tb nobhg va.

Naq Pbafgnapr nyfb qryvtugrq va guvf fvzcyr ubhfrubyq, rfcrpvnyyl fvapr
Treevg unq pbaprvirq n fbeg bs cnffvba sbe ure. Treevg naq Cnhy jrer ure
oebguref abj; naq Qbevar fhyxrq n ovg. Fur qvq abg trg ba jvgu
Pbafgnapr, fur pbhyq abg gryy jul. Pbafgnapr unq fcbxra fb irel avpryl
gb ure gung svefg riravat; naq Qbevar unq urycrq Znzzn, jvgu nyy ure
urneg, gb cercner n pbeqvny jrypbzr sbe Pbafgnapr nzbat gur oebguref naq
fvfgref. Ohg gurve angherf jrer abg znqr gb unezbavmr; naq Qbevar jnf
abj zhggrevat gung Pbafgnapr zhfg nyjnlf unir zra nobhg ure, gung fur
tbg ba orfg jvgu Treevg naq Cnhy, jub obgu cnvq pbheg gb ure nsgre n
snfuvba. Ure oebguref unq arire cnvq pbheg gb ure, Qbevar, nsgre nal
snfuvba. Lrf, cerggl jbzra jrer nyjnlf ng na nqinagntr, rira jvgu gurve
bja oebguref. Nyy fur, Qbevar, jnf tbbq sbe jnf gb gebg nobhg naq eha
reenaqf sbe gur oebguref naq fvfgref. Naq lrg vg jnf irel fgenatr, ohg,
fvapr Oregun naq Nqbycuvar unq orra bhg bs gbja naq Qbevar jrag bsgrare
gb Nqryvar'f, fur jbhyq nfx bs ure bja nppbeq, "Nqryvragwr, V'z tbvat
vagb gbja guvf nsgreabba: vf gurer nalguvat V pna qb sbe lbh?" naq, jura
Nqryvar nafjrerq, "Vg'f irel fjrrg bs lbh, Qbevar, ohg ernyyl, gurer'f
abguvat V jnag," Qbevar jbhyq ercyl, "Jryy, whfg guvax ntnva: V unir gb
tb vagb gbja, lbh frr;" naq gura, vs Nqryvar fnvq, "Jryy, Qbevar, vs
lbh'er tbvat va nal pnfr, jbhyq lbh ybbx va ng Fpuegqre'f sbe fbzr
cvansberf sbe Nqryrgwr naq ng Zgyyre naq Guvwf' sbe fubrf: gurl nyy jnag
fubrf," Qbevar jbhyq tb bss ng n gebg naq uheel, jvgu ure jvqr-yrttrq,
fuhssyvat tnvg, gb Fpuegqre'f naq gb Zgyyre naq Guvwf', zhggrevat gb
urefrys:

"Jura vg'f abg Oregun be Nqbycuvar, vg'f Nqryvar jub znantrf gb znxr hfr
bs zr!"

"V guvax Treevg n zbfg pbzcnavbanoyr oebgure," fnvq Pbafgnapr, bar
riravat, juvyr Cnhy fng gnxvat grn jvgu ure.

"Lrf, ur'f n tbbq fbeg, ohg ur'f dhrre."

"Ohg jul dhrre, Cnhy? Lbh'er nyjnlf fnlvat gung naq V unir arire gnxra
nal abgvpr bs vg. Jul vf Treevg dhrrere guna Reafg be lbhefrys?"

"Jryy, Reafg vfa'g abezny rvgure naq V ... bayl whfg."

"Ohg Treevg, fheryl, vf abezny!"

"Creuncf. Creuncf ur vf. Ohg fbzrgvzrf V snapl ur'f abg."

"Ohg jung qbrf ur qb, jung vf gurer nobhg uvz gung'f fgenatr?" nfxrq
Pbafgnapr, vaqvtanagyl, yvxr n gehr Ina Ybjr, qrsraqvat ure oebgure nf
fbba nf gung oebgure jnf nggnpxrq.

"Treevg unf orra zneevrq avar lrnef. Sbezreyl, ur jnf n irel yhthoevbhf
tragyrzna."

"Treevg yhthoevbhf!" Pbafgnapr ynhturq urnegvyl. "Zl qrne Cnhy, lbhe
xabjyrqtr bs uhzna angher vf qrfregvat lbh. Treevg, n urnygul sryybj,
fgebat nf n ubefr, na rkpryyrag bssvpre, n wbyyl oebgure, n svefg-engr
sngure jvgu nyy uvf snve-unverq yvggyr puvyqera: Treevg yhthoevbhf!
Jurer qb lbh trg gung vqrn sebz? Bu, Cnhy, fbzrgvzrf, sebz furre ybir bs
cnenqbk, lbh fnl fhpu irel vzcebonoyr guvatf!"

"Lbh qvq abg xabj Treevg nf ur jnf, Pbafgnapr."

"V xarj uvz nf n obl bs sbhegrra, jura jr hfrq gb cynl va gur evire ng
Ohvgrambet. Treevg vf fgvyy nyjnlf sylvat vagb rpfgnfvrf nobhg gung gvzr
naq zl yvggyr oner srrg! Gura V xarj Treevg nf n pnqrg naq nf n lbhat
fhonygrea, gjragl lrnef ntb; naq ur jnf nyjnlf cyrnfnag naq tnl."

"Naq V erzrzore Treevg, gra lrnef ntb, yhthoevbhf naq zrynapubyl."

"Bu, rirel bar unf na bppnfvbany zbbq! Creuncf ur unq na haunccl
ybir-nssnve: jul abg Treevg nf jryy nf nabgure?"

"V znl or jebat, bs pbhefr."

"Jura V frr Treevg, va uvf ovt punve, jvgu nyy gubfr puvyqera pyvzovat
bire uvf yrtf naq purfg, ur ybbxf gb zr gur irel crefbavsvpngvba bs
unccvarff. Bu, Cnhy, naq V gbb, V gbb srry unccl: V pna'g gryy lbh,
Cnhy, ubj unccl V nz gb or onpx urer va gur Unthr! Naq abj, abj lbh qb
nyy pner sbe zr n yvggyr ntnva: rira Nqbycuvar jnf irel avpr yngryl,
orsber fur jrag njnl; naq V nz unccl, V nz fb unccl!"

"Lbh unir n irel tragyr, aboyr, cnfgbeny angher, jvgu n fgebat ngnivfgvp
graqrapl!" fnvq Cnhy, grnfvat ure. "Ybbx, urer ner lbhe uhfonaq naq lbhe
obl onpx jvgu gurve ovplpyrf, whfg yvxr gjb oebguref, na ryqre naq n
lbhatre oebgure. Gurl znxr n tbbq cnve. Abj, vs lbh'er fb unccl, qba'g
or wrnybhf naq gel naq erznva nf cnfgbeny nyy gur riravat nf lbh ner ng
guvf zbzrag ... rira vs lbhe uhfonaq fubhyq ragre gur ebbz
cerfragyl!..."




PUNCGRE KKIV


Gur byq jbzna jnyxrq jvgu fybj fgrcf nybat gur cnguf bs gur tneqra,
pnershyyl rknzvavat rnpu frcnengr ebfr jvgu ure terl rlrf. Ure yrtf
frrzrq gb zbir jvgu qvssvphygl nybat gur aneebj teniry-cnguf gung jbhaq
guebhtu gur sebag-tneqra; naq ure senzr jnf orag, nf gubhtu qrsbezrq. Va
n jvpxre-jbex punve ba gur irenaqnu fng gur gnyy, byq svther bs gur
uhfonaq, uvf vibel sberurnq ohytvat nobir gur cntrf bs gur arjfcncre
juvpu ur uryq va uvf ynetr, fueviryyrq unaqf....

Riravat sryy. N anzryrff terl zrynapubyl sryy sebz gur cnyr fhzzre fxl
bire gur pbhagel-ebnqf, nybat juvpu gur crnprshy ivyynf snqrq vagb gur
funqbjf bs gurve tneqraf. Gur byq jbzna ybbxrq hc ng gur fxl, ybbxrq bhg
bire gur ebnq, jvgu ure unaq funqvat ure rlrf, jnyxrq ba ntnva, fybjyl
naq cnvashyyl, pnershyyl rknzvavat rnpu frcnengr ebfr.... Gura fur jrag
onpx gb gur ubhfr:

"Vg vf trggvat pbyq, Uraqevx; qba'g fgnl bhg gbb ybat."

"Ab."

Ohg gur byq zna erznvarq fvggvat jurer ur jnf. Gur byq jbzna jrag va,
jnaqrerq guebhtu gur fvggvat-ebbz naq gur qvavat-ebbz. Fur cnffrq ure
cbpxrg-unaqxrepuvrs yvtugyl bire gur sheavgher, ybbxvat gb frr vs gurer
jnf nal qhfg ba vg; naq, nf gur cneybhe-znvq unq pyrnerq gur gnoyr, fur
chyyrq gur pybgu fgenvtug, chg n punve vagb vgf cebcre cynpr, fzbbgurq
njnl n pernfr va gur phegnva. Fur jrag vagb gur pbafreingbel, ybbxrq
vagb gur onpx-tneqra. Ure fnq terl rlrf tnmrq bhg vagb gur terl
zrynapubyl bs gur qnexyvat avtug. Gur jvaq ebfr, zbnarq fbsgyl guebhtu
gur gbczbfg gjvtf bs gur gerrf.

Gur byq jbzna ybbxrq ebhaq ng gur byq zna, ohg ur erznvarq fvggvat va
gur jvpxre punve, ybfg va gur terng cntrf bs uvf arjfcncre:

"Qba'g pngpu pbyq, Uraqevx," fur ercrngrq, tragyl.

"V'z pbzvat."

Ohg gur byq zna erznvarq fvggvat jurer ur jnf. Abj gur byq jbzna
jnaqrerq qbja gur cnffntr, yvfgrarq ng gur qbbe bs gur xvgpura naq bs n
fznyy onpx-ebbz: ibvprf fbhaqrq, gur ibvprf bs gur znvqf naq gur ohgyre.
Gura fur jrag hc gur fgnvef, jnaqrerq guebhtu gur orqebbzf, jnaqrerq
guebhtu gur rzcgl fcner-ebbzf, jvgu n fvtu, orpnhfr gurl arire pnzr.
Rirelguvat jnf arngyl xrcg, uhfurq naq dhvrg, nf va n ubhfr gung ynpxf
yvsr....

Gur byq jbzna, orag naq gbggrevat, fvturq, jnf erfgyrff. Fur jnaqrerq
ntnva guebhtu nyy gur orqebbzf naq jrnevyl znqr ure jnl qbjafgnvef
ntnva, pebffrq gur cnffntr, ragrerq gur yvivat-ebbz. Gur byq zna jnf
frngrq gurer abj; gur jvaqbjf vagb gur tneqra jrer pybfrq. Ur unq sbyqrq
hc uvf cncre naq, frngrq ol gur jvaqbj, jnf fgvyy tnmvat bhg gb jurer
gur ebnq bs ivyynf terj qnexre naq qnexre va gur puvyy qvzarff bs gur
yngr-fhzzre riravat, abj ortvaavat gb ehfgyr jvgu gur evfvat jvaq. Gura,
fgvsyvat n fvtu, gur byq jbzna fng qbja ng gur bgure jvaqbj, jrnevyl
sbyqrq ure unaqf, cynprq ure gverq srrg fvqr ol fvqr ba n fgbby.

Gur ebbz terj qnex, gur jvaqbjf ghearq terl, whfg bhgyvarq ol gur
phegnvaf. Gur ebnq jnf zber naq zber oyheerq va gur qvzarff bs gur jvaql
avtug. N terl zrynapubyl ervtarq jvgubhg naq n terl zrynapubyl ervtarq
jvguva, jvgu gubfr gjb byq crbcyr, rnpu fvggvat fvyrag ng n jvaqbj,
ybaryl naq sbeybea, qernevyl fhax va gurve bja gubhtugf. Gurl fng guhf
sbe n ybat gvzr, dhvrgyl, jvgubhg n jbeq. Gura gur byq jbzna fnvq:

"Vg vf Uraev'f oveguqnl gb-zbeebj."

"Lrf," fnvq gur byq zna. "Ur jvyy or guvegl-avar."

Naq gurl fnvq abguvat zber naq fgnerq orsber gurz. Gura gur byq jbzna
terj, erfgyrff ntnva naq ebfr sebz ure punve jvgu qvssvphygl, ubooyrq
guebhtu gur ebbz, ubyqvat ba ol gur punvef nf fur jrag, naq enat gur
oryy:

"Yvtug gur tnf naq oevat va gur grn, Cvrg."

Gur ohgyre yvg gur tnf, qerj gur phegnvaf naq oebhtug gur grn. Gur byq
zna fng qbja ng gur gnoyr jvgu n obbx; naq gur yvtug sryy unefuyl ba uvf
vibel sberurnq naq uvf oyhr-funira snpr; uvf taneyrq, obal unaqf pnfg
ynetr funqbjf bire gur obbx, ghearq gur cntrf ng erthyne vagreinyf.

"Urer'f lbhe grn, Uraqevx."

Gur byq zna qenax uvf phc bs grn.

Gura gur byq jbzna nyfb gbbx ure obbx naq ernq....

Fybjyl, va gur pbhefr bs lrnef, fur unq ernq ure Ovoyr yrff naq yrff,
orpnhfr fur jnf jvpxrq nsgre nyy naq orpnhfr fur unq arire erfvtarq
urefrys gb gur fnpevsvpr juvpu fur unq znqr, juvpu vg jnf ure qhgl gb
znxr, orsber Tbq naq zna. Gura fur punaprq ba n jbaqreshy obbx juvpu
qrfpevorq jung unccrarq gb crbcyr nsgre qrngu. Naq guvf obbx fur ernq
rirel riravat.

Ohg fur jnf hanoyr gb ernq, guvf riravat. Nf n ehyr, gur byq cnve ernq,
bire gurve phc bs grn, gvyy gra b'pybpx, va fvyrapr, naq gura tbg hc naq
jrag gb orq. Ohg gur byq jbzna pbhyq abg ernq guvf riravat. Ure npuvat
srrg svqtrgrq ba gur fgbby, ure orag obql zbirq va inthr qvfpbzsbeg. Naq
fur nfxrq, fgvyy pnfhnyyl, areibhfyl:

"Jvyy Uraev or guvegl-_avar_ gb-zbeebj, Uraqevx?"

"Lrf."

Fur xarj dhvgr jryy gung ur jbhyq or guvegl-avar, ohg fur jnagrq gb fnl
vg ntnva, jnagrq gb gnyx bs ure fba. Sbe svsgrra ybat lrnef, fur unq abg
frra uvz; naq uvf oveguqnlf, gur naavirefnevrf bs gur qnl ba juvpu fur
unq obear uvz, ure bayl puvyq, unq cnffrq juvyr ur jnf irel sne njnl,
gbb sne sbe ure gb ernpu uvz naq gnxr uvz va ure nezf. Sbe znal lrnef,
fur unq ubcrq:

"Abj vg jvyy pbzr, abj vg jvyy pbzr arnere."

Ohg vg unq abg pbzr arnere. Hagvy fhqqrayl vg jnf irel arne, hagvy
fhqqrayl vg jnf gurer. Abj vg jnf urer, nsgre ybat, ybat lrnef; naq lrg
vg jnf abg urer, vg jnf sne njnl....

Fur pbhyq abg ernq, tbg hc, jrag bhg bs gur ebbz, npebff gur unyy. Gur
byq zna fgnerq nsgre ure, jrag ba ernqvat. Naq vg jnf nf gubhtu ure
qvfdhvrg xrcg vapernfvat, nf gubhtu n ibvpr--bar bs gubfr ibvprf bs
juvpu fur unq ernq va gung fgenatr obbx--fnvq gb ure:

"Tb, tb gb-zbeebj!"

Arire unq n ibvpr fcbxra fb cynvayl gb ure, gur byq jbzna, naq nf vg
jrer beqrerq ure gb tb, gb tb gb-zbeebj. Fur jnf irel byq, va lrnef, va
zbirzrag naq va srryvat; naq fur arire, arire geniryyrq. Fur yvirq
dhvrgyl va ure ubhfr orfvqr gur pbhagel-ebnq, fhzzre naq jvagre nyvxr;
naq fbzrgvzrf fur jrag sbe n yvggyr qevir va gur arvtuobheubbq: Orlbaq
gung fur ab ybatre jrag, sbe fur jnf tbhgl naq shyy bs npurf naq cnvaf
juvpu orag ure jvgurerq onpx. Sbe lrnef naq lrnef, fur unq abg
geniryyrq, unq abg fng va gur genva juvpu, sbe lrnef, fur unq urneq
juvfgyvat ng gur fgngvba, fbzrgvzrf rira urneq ehzoyvat. Naq abj gur
zlfgrevbhf ibvpr fb cynvayl naq vafvfgragyl pbzznaqrq:

"Tb!"

Gura fur jrag onpx gb gur ebbz, fng qbja naq, guvf gvzr, jnf hanoyr gb
fgvsyr ure fvtu. Fur fvturq. Gur byq zna urneq, ohg qvq abg xabj ubj gb
nfx ure jul fur jnf fvtuvat. Sbe lrnef, sbe ybat lrnef, gurer unq orra
fb yvggyr fnvq orgjrra gurz. Bayl abj, guvf fcevat, jura Uraev'f yrggre
pnzr, gurl unq fcbxra, ohg abg zhpu. N pbhcyr bs qnlf nsgre erprvivat
gur yrggre, gur byq zna fnvq:

"V jvyy jevgr gb uvz."

Naq gung jnf ernyyl gur bayl guvat gung unq orra fnvq. Ohg gurl unq abg
yvirq fb znal lrnef va fvyrapr, fvqr ol fvqr, jvgubhg yrneavat gb urne
rnpu bgure fcrnx gubhtu obgu jrer fvyrag. Gurl xarj, jvgubhg fcrnxvat,
jung rvgure fnvq, fvyragyl va uvf urneg. Bayl abj, gubhtu gur byq zna
uvzfrys jnf guvaxvat bs Uraev gung avtug, ur qvq abg xabj jung uvf jvsr
jnf fnlvat gb uvz, fvyragyl, jvgubhg jbeqf, va gung bar fvtu; naq guvf
jnf orpnhfr ur qvq abg ernq gung fgenatr obbx naq arire urneq gur
fgenatr ibvprf. Gurersber ur fbhtug sbe n jbeq gb fnl naq sbhaq vg irel
qvssvphyg gb svaq n jbeq, ohg ng ynfg ur qvq fcrnx naq fnvq, fvzcyl:

"Jung vf vg?"

Ur qvq abg ybbx hc, jrag ba ernqvat uvf obbx nf ur fcbxr.

Gura gur byq jbzna'f npuvat srrg svqtrgrq fgvyy zber areibhfyl ba gurve
fgbby; gur orag fubhyqref fuvirerq zber areibhfyl haqre gurve yvggyr
oynpx funjy; naq fur ortna gb pel, fbsgyl.

"Pbzr, jung vf vg?"

Ur cergraqrq gb tb ba ernqvat uvf obbx, orpnhfr gnyxvat naq pelvat jrer
fb qvssvphyg, naq orpnhfr vg jnf rnfvre gb cergraq gb tb ba ernqvat.

Gur byq jbzna fnvq, orpnhfr uvf byq ibvpr unq fcbxra tragyl:

"V fubhyq yvxr gb tb gb Uraev, gb-zbeebj."

Abj gurl jrer obgu fvyrag; naq gur byq zna jrag ba ernqvat; naq gur byq
jbzna, jnvgvat sbe uvf nafjre, prnfrq pelvat, prnfrq zbivat ure srrg,
ure fubhyqref. Naq, nsgre n fvyrapr, gur byq zna fnvq:

"Gnxr Cvrg jvgu lbh, gura, gb uryc lbh."

Fur abqqrq ure urnq; naq gur grnef sybjrq sebz ure rlrf, juvyr fur qerj
ure obbx gb ure, vajneqyl cyrnfrq gung ur unq fnvq fb zhpu naq fnvq vg
fb xvaqyl. Fur fvturq bapr zber, guvf gvzr jvgu eryvrs, naq ernq ba. Ohg
ure rlrf qvq abg frr gur jbeqf, orpnhfr fur jnf guvaxvat gung gb-zbeebj
fur jbhyq or tbvat jvgu Cvrg, gur ohgyre, va gur genva--va juvpu fur unq
abg orra sbe lrnef naq lrnef--gb gur Unthr, gb frr Uraev.

"Tb!" gur ibvpr unq fnvq. "Tb!" gur ibvpr unq pbzznaqrq.

Naq fur jnf tbvat. Vg unq pbzr ng ynfg, pbzr fb arne gung vg jbhyq or
gurer gb-zbeebj: abg gung Uraev jnf pbzvat gb ure, ohg gung fur jnf
tbvat gb Uraev, gb xvff uvz, gb sbetvir uvz....

Naq fur ernq ba, qvq abg frr gur fgenatr jbeqf juvpu gbyq jung unccrarq
gb crbcyr nsgre qrngu, ohg jrcg fbsgyl, vanhqvoyl, bire ure obbx, jrcg
sbe fgvyy pbagragzrag naq crnpr, orpnhfr ur unq fcbxra gb ure naq unq
fnvq:

"Gnxr Cvrg jvgu lbh, gura, gb uryc lbh."

Jura vg jnf gra b'pybpx, ur pybfrq uvf obbx, fgbbq hc. Naq fur jbhyq fb
zhpu unir yvxrq gb nfx uvz vs ur gbb jbhyq pbzr jvgu ure gb-zbeebj, va
gur genva, gb Uraev, orpnhfr vg jnf abg fb qvssvphyg naq Cvrg pbhyq gnxr
gur gvpxrgf. Ohg fur qvq abg nfx uvz, orpnhfr fur xarj gung vg jnf rira
zber qvssvphyg sbe uvz guna sbe ure gb geniry naq tb ol genva, gung
genva juvpu ur nyfb sbe lrnef unq urneq juvfgyvat naq fbzrgvzrf
ehzoyvat. Fb fur qvq abg nfx uvz, orpnhfr ur jbhyq pregnvayl ershfr. Naq
jvgubhg n qbhog ur urneq jvguva uvzfrys jung fur urfvgngrq gb nfx uvz,
sbe ur fnvq, tragyl:

"V funyy abg tb; ohg tvir uvz znal tbbq jvfurf, sebz uvf sngure."

Gura, fgvssyl naq jvgu qvssvphygl, ur orag uvf gnyy svther naq uvf vibel
sberurnq, jrag gb ure naq xvffrq ure ba gur oebj. Naq fur gbbx uvf
taneyrq unaq naq cerffrq vg tragyl. Gura ur jrag hcfgnvef naq fur enat
gur oryy.

Gur ohgyre ragrerq.

"Cvrg," fur fnvq, urfvgngvatyl naq fulyl, naq fur oyhfurq orsber gur
ohgyre. "V nz tbvat gb-zbeebj gb gur Unthr, gb Ze. Uraev. Vg'f uvf
oveguqnl. Naq V fubhyq yvxr lbh gb gnxr zr gurer."

Gur zna ybbxrq hc va fhecevfr, fzvyrq:

"Irel jryy, zn'nz, nf lbh cyrnfr."

Naq, nf fur jrag hc gur fgnvef, fur gevrq gb ubyq urefrys zber rerpg;
fur sryg lbhatre....




PUNCGRE KKIVV


Naq va ure ebbz fur uneqyl fyrcg sbe areibhfarff nobhg gur terng rirag
gung jnf gb unccra ba gur zbeebj. Nyy gur avtug guebhtu, juvyr gur jvaq
zbnarq ntnvafg gur cnarf, fur ynl va orq, jvgu hapybfrq rlrf, yvfgravat
jurgure fur pbhyq abg urne va gur ibvprf bs gur jvaq lrg bgure ibvprf,
fgenatr ibvprf, ibvprf jneavat be pbzznaqvat gur yvivat.

Fur unq arire fcbxra gb ure uhfonaq nobhg gur ibvprf, gubhtu ur jnf jryy
njner gung fur ernq gur fgenatr obbx naq qvfnccebirq bs ure ernqvat vg,
orpnhfr vg pbhyq abg or svg naq cebcre ernqvat sbe crbcyr jub, sebz
gurve puvyqubbq, unq oryvrirq gung gur orfg bs nyy obbxf jnf gur Ovoyr
naq gur orfg bs nyy oryvrsf gur oryvrs va gur Ybeq, sebz Jubz rirel
fbeebj pnzr naq rirel oyrffvat. Naq fur unq uvqqra gur fgenatr obbx nyfb
sebz gur byq zvavfgre, jub pnzr gb frr gurz rirel jrrx, fvapr gurl obgu,
tebjvat byqre rnpu lrne naq nvyvat, unq prnfrq gb tb gb puhepu: fur chg
gur fgenatr obbx bhg bs gur jnl jura ur jnf rkcrpgrq ba n
Fhaqnl-nsgreabba; ohg fur fghqvrq vg jvgubhg pbaprnyzrag sebz ure byq
uhfonaq naq lrg va fvyrapr, nf gubhtu thvygl bs n frperg urerfl. Ur unq
nfxrq ure bapr:

"Jung ner lbh ernqvat gurer?"

Naq fur gbyq uvz gur fgenatr gvgyr naq fnvq gung fur jnagrq gb radhver
vagb guvatf, ohg abguvat shegure unq orra hggrerq orgjrra gur gjb byq
crbcyr, gubhtu fur urneq uvz fvyragyl rkcerff uvf qvfnccebiny. Ohg,
fvapr gur qnl jura, lrnef ntb, fur unq lvryqrq gb ure uhfonaq naq
pbafragrq gb gur fhcreuhzna fnpevsvpr bs fheeraqrevat ure fba gb gur
jbzna jubz gung fba unq cyhatrq vagb haunccvarff--orpnhfr guvf fnpevsvpr
jnf gur qhgl juvpu jnf erdhverq bs ure ol qvivar naq uhzna rdhvgl--fvapr
gung gvzr fur unq unq ab crnpr, ernq nf fur zvtug va ure Ovoyr, gnyx nf
fur jbhyq jvgu gur zvavfgre, cenl nf fur qvq sbe ubhef ba raq. Fur unq
unq ab crnpr: qrrc qbja va urefrys fur unq nyjnlf obear n tehqtr orpnhfr
Urnira unq ynvq fb urnil n fnpevsvpr hcba ure, gur zbgure. Ure uhfonaq
unq unq gur fgeratgu bs n zna jub chefhrf gur fgenvtug cngu, gur cngu bs
qhgl, naq ur unq fheeraqrerq uvf fba naq ybfg uvz jvgubhg n fhcresyhbhf
jbeq. Ohg fur, gubhtu fur nyfb fcbxr ab jbeq, unq abg erfvtarq urefrys;
naq ure fbhy unq eroryyrq; naq fur unq gubhtug gung fur jnf ybfg sbe nyy
rgreavgl ... hagvy n tragyr enl unq pbzr, ol nppvqrag, gb pbzsbeg ure
bhg bs gur fgenatr obbx juvpu, ol nppvqrag, fur unq gnxra hc naq bcrarq.
Naq, fgvyy n oryvrire, gubhtu fur ab ybatre jrag gb puhepu naq gubhtu,
va ure urneg, fur qvq abg nterr jvgu gur zvavfgre, qvq abg nterr jvgu
ure byq uhfonaq, fur arireguryrff raqrnibherq gb havgr, gb erpbapvyr, gb
oyraq jung erznvarq bs gur byq snvgu, juvpu unq bapr fgbbq svez nf n
ebpx, jvgu gur arj snvgu; naq, jura fur cenlrq, fur cenlrq vaqrrq gb gur
fnzr Tbq bs ure byq, sbezre snvgu, ohg fur yvfgrarq nyfb gb gur ibvprf,
gb gung cneg bs gur vaivfvoyr jbeyq juvpu ubiref nebhaq hf naq fnirf hf
naq thvqrf hf naq jneaf naq cebgrpgf hf naq frgf vgf fbsg-fzvyvat
pbzcnffvba orgjrra hf naq gur evtvq vzzhgnovyvgl bs gur qvivar tenpr be
qvfcyrnfher, grzcrevat gur qvivar oebj vagb n fbsgre tynapr. Gung jnf
ure frperg; naq jung fur fvyragyl gbyq ure uhfonaq bs gur arj snvgu
fgvyy erznvarq na hacrargengrq frperg gb uvz va gur qhzo riravatf jura
gurl fng gbtrgure naq ernq naq ur urneq ure, va fvyrapr, fnl gung fur
oryvrirq qvssreragyl sebz jung fur bapr qvq orpnhfr fur unq sbhaq ab
crnpr va gung qvivar vzzhgnovyvgl.

Naq abj gur qnl pnzr juvpu jnf Uraev'f oveguqnl. Fur qerffrq irel rneyl,
jvgu qvssvphygl naq jvgu funxvat unaqf, naq, jura Cvrg gbyq ure gung
gurer jnf n genva ng avar b'pybpx, fur oyhfurq naq erznvarq dhvrgyl
jnvgvat sbe gur pneevntr gb or tbg ernql naq sbe Cvrg gb pbzr naq gryy
ure. Fur jnf ure beqvanel frys ng oernxsnfg, ohg gevrq, jvgubhg
nggenpgvat nggragvba, abg gb rng, orpnhfr gur oernq fghpx va ure guebng;
naq, jura, ng gur oernxsnfg-gnoyr, ure uhfonaq nfxrq vs fur unq abg
gryrtencurq gb Uraev, fur nafjrerq:

"Ab."

Nyzbfg vanhqvoyl naq fvyragyl, fur guhf pbairlrq gb ure uhfonaq gung fur
jvfurq gb tvir Uraev n fhecevfr.

Fur erznvarq fvggvat zbgvbayrff; qvq abg jnfu hc gur oernxsnfg-phcf gung
zbeavat, nf fur jnf nyjnlf jbag gb qb; jnf n yvggyr hapbzsbegnoyr va gur
cerfrapr bs ure uhfonaq naq gur cneybhe-znvq naq Cvrg ng guvf bzvffvba
bs ure hfhny unovg. Fur urneq gur pybpx gvpxvat, gur frpbaqf snyyvat
njnl; naq fur jnf nsenvq gung, vs Cvrg ybvgrerq fb, fur jbhyq or yngr,
be gung gurer jbhyq or na nppvqrag. Yhpxvyl, gur zbeavat-cncre pnzr; naq
gur byq zna cyhatrq vagb vgf cntrf juvyr fur erznvarq jnvgvat, va ure
pybnx naq ure hasnfuvbanoyr, oynpx, byq ynql'f obaarg, sbe Cvrg gb pbzr
naq fnl gung vg jnf gvzr gb tb. Gur cneybhe-znvq jnfurq hc gur
oernxsnfg-phcf; naq fur jnf nsenvq gur znvq jbhyq oernx bar, orpnhfr fur
jnf abg hfrq gb vg. Vg znqr dhvgr n punatr, guebhtubhg gur ubhfr, gung
fur jnf tbvat guvf zbeavat ol genva, gb gur Unthr, gb Uraev, jubfr
oveguqnl vg jnf. Fur jnf hapbzsbegnoyr naq fur srnerq gung gur crbcyr
nybat gur ebnq naq ng gur fgngvba jbhyq fgnaq ybbxvat naq jbaqrevat jul
Zef. ina qre Jrypxr jnf tbvat ba n wbhearl. Naq, jura, ng ynfg, Cvrg
pnzr gb gryy ure, fur pbhyq abg trg hc ng svefg, orpnhfr ure byq yrtf
fubbx fb naq ure srrg cevpxrq ure, nf gubhtu gurl unq orra nfyrrc. Ohg
fur znqr n cnvashy rssbeg, fgbbq hc, tnir Cvrg ure chefr; naq gur byq
zna fnvq:

"Cvrg, jvyy lbh ybbx nsgre zriebhj, trggvat va naq bhg bs gur genva?"

Cvrg cebzvfrq; naq fur gbbx yrnir bs ure uhfonaq. Gur pneevntr jnf ng
gur qbbe; naq fur qnerq abg ybbx ng Qvex, gur pbnpuzna, orpnhfr fur jnf
ful, juvyr Cvrg uryq bcra gur pneevntr-qbbe naq urycrq ure gb fgrc va,
jvgu fbzr yvggyr qvssvphygl. Va gur pneevntr, fur fuenax onpx, orpnhfr
gur jbzna jvgu gur irtrgnoyrf jnf whfg cnffvat naq fur jnf nsenvq gung
fur zvtug frr ure. Nyfb fur ersyrpgrq gung gur crbcyr va gur bgure
ivyynf jbhyq or fher gb frr gur pneevntr qevir bhg naq jbaqre jung jnf
unccravat, fb rneyl va gur zbeavat. Ohg, jura, ng gur fgngvba, Cvrg
urycrq ure gb nyvtug naq yrq ure gb gur yvggyr jnvgvat-ebbz naq jrag gb
gnxr gur gvpxrgf, fur jnf irel ful orsber n ynql naq tragyrzna jub jrer
nyfb jnvgvat naq jub ab qbhog gubhtug vg irel fgenatr gung fur, na byq
jbzna, fubhyq tb geniryyvat yvxr gung. Sbeghangryl, Cvrg unq pnyphyngrq
gur gvzr naq fur unq abg ybat gb jnvg, ng juvpu fur jnf irel tynq,
orpnhfr gur juvfgyvat bs gur genvaf naq gur evatvat bs gur oryy znqr ure
irel areibhf, greevsvrq yrfg fur fubhyq zvff gur genva, naq fur qvq abg
xabj gb n zvahgr ng jung gvzr vg fgnegrq. Ohg Cvrg pnzr gb gryy ure naq
srgpurq ure; naq fur gevrq gb jnyx fgenvtug naq, nffvfgrq ol Cvrg, gb
pyvzo vagb gur pneevntr abg nyy gbb cnvashyyl naq ynobevbhfyl. Cvrg unq
gnxra n frpbaq-pynff gvpxrg sbe uvzfrys; naq fur jbhyq engure unir unq
uvz pbzr vagb ure pbzcnegzrag, ohg ur unq, bs pbhefr, abg qnerq, sebz
erfcrpg sbe uvf zvfgerff, naq fur unq abg qnerq nfx uvz. Ohg fur
erfbyirq gb fvg irel dhvrg hagvy Cvrg pnzr gb srgpu ure. Gur ynql naq
gur tragyrzna jrer va gur fnzr pbzcnegzrag nf urefrys, ohg gurl jrer
irel cbyvgr: gur tragyrzna unq objrq naq gur ynql gbb; naq sbeghangryl
gurl qvq abg ybbx ng ure ntnva, ohg gnyxrq gb rnpu bgure va ybj ibvprf.
Naq, jura gur genva zbirq bss, gur byq jbzna fng dhvrgyl, jvgu frg yvcf,
ybbxvat bhg bs gur jvaqbj ng gur zrnqbjf fcrrqvat cnfg.... Abj fur jnf
ortvaavat gb jbaqre jung Uraev jbhyq fnl naq fur nyfb gubhtug bs
Pbafgnapr naq bs ure tenaqfba, Nqevnna. Naq fur jnf n yvggyr sevtugrarq
ng jung fur unq qbar. Gurl zvtug or bhg, be irel ohfl jvgu gur Ina
Ybjrf, Pbafgnapr' eryngvbaf. Fur qvq abg dhvgr xabj va jung jnl Uraev
naq Pbafgnapr yvirq, ng gur Unthr. Uraev, vg jnf gehr, unq orra gb
Qevroretra ntnva, whfg bapr zber, ol uvzfrys, ohg fur unq erprvirq ab
qvfgvapg vzcerffvba sebz uvf jbeqf, orpnhfr fur unq uneqyl yvfgrarq, unq
bayl fng tnmvat ng uvz, ure fba, jubz fur unq abg frra sbe fb znal
lrnef, jub unq abg orra nyybjrq gb rkvfg sbe ure.... Fur gerzoyrq
fhqqrayl ng jung fur unq qnerq gb qb, ohg vg jnf abj gbb yngr. Fur jnf
fvggvat va gur genva; naq gur genva jnf pneelvat ure nybat; naq nyfb fur
qvq abg xabj ubj gb gryy Cvrg, jura gur genva fgbccrq, gung fur jbhyq
engure whfg tb onpx ntnva. Gura, sebz furre vanovyvgl gb qb bgurejvfr,
fur ng ynfg sbhaq pbhentr gb fvg fgvyy naq yrg gur genva gnxr ure ba
hagvy vg fybjrq vagb gur fgngvba ng gur Unthr naq Cvrg pnzr gb srgpu ure
naq urycrq ure pyvzo qbja gur uvtu fgrcf bs gur envyjnl-pneevntr. Cvrg
abj yrq ure fybjyl naq dhvrgyl guebhtu gur ohfl pebjq bs crbcyr, juvpu
ur nyybjrq gb sybj nurnq bs gurz, naq bhg bs gur fgngvba, pubfr n avpr
pno, urycrq ure va, tnir gur nqqerff bs Oneba ina qre Jrypxr,
Xrexubsynna, naq tbg hc ba gur obk, arkg gb gur qevire. Naq abj, frngrq
va gur pno, juvpu enggyrq bire gur pbooyr-fgbarf, fur jnf tynq, nsgre
nyy, gung fur unq crefrirerq naq fur gubhtug gung vg jnf abg fb irel
qvssvphyg, nsgre nyy, naq oryvrirq gung, nsgre nyy, Uraev jbhyq creuncf
guvax vg avpr bs ure gb unir pbzr jvgubhg abgvpr. Vg jnf n ybat qevir;
naq fur unq abg orra gb gur Unthr sbe lrnef naq unq sbetbggra gur
fgerrgf naq fdhnerf; ohg, ng ynfg, gur pno fgbccrq naq fur ybbxrq bhg
juvyr Cvrg pyvzorq qbja sebz gur obk, enat gur oryy, bcrarq gur qbbe bs
gur pno, urycrq ure bhg....

Lrf, fur jnf gurer abj naq fur gerzoyrq ivbyragyl jura gur znvq bcrarq
gur qbbe naq fur ragrerq gur unyy. Fur jnf gurer abj. Naq fur pbhyq svaq
abguvat gb fnl jura n qbbe va gur cnffntr bcrarq naq Pbafgnapr, nznmrq,
pnzr bhg gb ure. Guvf jnf gur frpbaq gvzr gung fur unq frra gung
jbzna....

"Znzzn!"

"Lrf, V gubhtug V jbhyq pbzr, orpnhfr vg jnf Uraev'f oveguqnl...."

Fur xarj--fur unq abg snvyrq gb haqrefgnaq--gung ure fba jnf abg unccl
jvgu gung jbzna naq fur sryg n pregnva qvfnccbvagzrag gung vg jnf abg
Uraev uvzfrys jub pnzr bhg gb jrypbzr ure.

Ohg gur nfgbavfuzrag va Pbafgnapr' snpr punatrq gb n ybbx bs fbsg naq
tynq fhecevfr. Fur jnf irel frafvgvir gb xvaqarff naq fur sryg gung vg
jnf xvaq bs guvf byq jbzna gb pbzr: guvf byq ynql jub arire jrag
naljurer, jub unq pbzr jvgu ure ohgyre....

"Ubj cyrnfrq Uraev jvyy or!" fur fnvq, tragyl, naq ure rlrf terj zbvfg.
"Ubj irel cyrnfrq Uraev jvyy or! Ur vf bhg abj, ba uvf ovplpyr, ohg
ur'yy or onpx fbba. Pbzr va, gnxr bss lbhe pybnx vafvqr: V'z nsenvq
gurer'f n qenhtug bhg urer. Tbbq-zbeavat, Cvrg: fb lbh'ir oebhtug
zriebhj? Tb vagb gur xvgpura, Cvrg, jvyy lbh? Pbzr va, Znzzn. Ubj
qryvtugrq Uraev jvyy or! Ur vf fher gb or va irel fbba. Naq guvf vf zl
zbgure, jub unf nyfb pbzr gb frr hf guvf zbeavat."

Fur yrq Zef. ina qre Jrypxr vagb gur zbeavat-ebbz; naq gurer fgbbq byq
Zef. ina Ybjr. Naq, jura Pbafgnapr pybfrq gur qbbe, gur gjb byq ynqvrf
ybbxrq ng rnpu bgure naq jrer obgu irel areibhf; naq Pbafgnapr sryg yvxr
gung gbb, gerzoyvat va ure yvzof. Gur byq ynqvrf ybbxrq ng rnpu bgure;
naq vg jnf nf gubhtu gur gjb zbguref, jvgu gung ybat, ybat ybbx, nfxrq
rnpu bgure'f sbetvirarff, nsgre znal ybat lrnef, sbe gurve gjb puvyqera.
Gura Zef. ina Ybjr nccebnpurq naq chg bhg ure gjb unaqf; naq ure jbeqf
fbhaqrq irel fvzcyr:

"V nz fb qryvtugrq gb znxr lbhe npdhnvagnapr, zriebhj...."

Lrf, gurl nfxrq, jvgubhg fnlvat fb, gurl nfxrq rnpu bgure'f sbetvirarff
sbe gur bssrapr juvpu gurve gjb puvyqera unq pbzzvggrq, lrnef naq lrnef
ntb, ntnvafg rnpu bgure naq ntnvafg gurzfryirf naq ntnvafg gurve yvirf.
Gurl nfxrq rnpu bgure'f sbetvirarff jvgu gur hafcrnxnoyr tragyrarff bs
gjb irel byq jbzra jub fgvyy ybbxrq hcba gurve puvyqera, jungrire gurve
ntr zvtug or, nf puvyqera, nf gurve puvyqera. Gurl nfxrq rnpu bgure'f
sbetvirarff jvgubhg jbeqf, jvgu n tynapr naq n cerffher bs gur unaqf;
naq Pbafgnapr haqrefgbbq fb cynvayl jung gurl jrer nfxvat rnpu bgure
gung fur dhvrgyl yrsg gur ebbz, srryvat fhqqrayl yvxr n puvyq, n gval
puvyq gung unq orunirq onqyl gbjneqf gubfr gjb zbguref.... Pbafgnapr
sryg vg fb vagrafryl gung fur jrag ol urefrys, guebhtu gur qvavat-ebbz,
vagb gur pbafreingbel naq jrcg, irel dhvrgyl, fjnyybjvat ure grnef
oruvaq ure unaqxrepuvrs. Naq gur byq ynqvrf jrer yrsg gbtrgure, gur gjb
zbguref, fb qvssrerag bar sebz gur bgure: bar, Zef. ina Ybjr, n jbzna
jub creuncf unq frra zhpu zber bs yvsr naq haqrefgbbq vg orggre guna gur
bgure, Zef. ina qre Jrypxr, jub unq nyjnlf yvirq dhvrgyl, nyjnlf ng
Qevroretra, jvgu ure Ovoyr ... hagvy gur fgenatr obbx unq snyyra vagb
ure unaqf....

Gurl jrer yrsg gbtrgure naq gur irel znal guvatf juvpu gurl fnvq gb rnpu
bgure naq nfxrq bs rnpu bgure, va fvyrapr, jrer abg nhqvoyr va gur
fvzcyr jbeqf bs Pbafgnapr' zbgure:

"Znl V uryc lbh gnxr bss lbhe ung naq lbhe pybnx, zriebhj?"

Naq, nf fur nffvfgrq Zef. ina qre Jrypxr, fur ncbybtvmrq sbe Pbafgnapr
naq fnvq:

"V guvax lbhe neeviny zhfg unir ntvgngrq ure; lbh zhfg abg zvaq ure
yrnivat lbh sbe n zbzrag...."

Gura gur byq ynqvrf fng qbja fvqr ol fvqr.

"Gurl frrz gb or irel pbzsbegnoyr," fnvq Zef. ina qre Jrypxr naq ybbxrq
nebhaq ure areibhfyl.

"V nz fb tynq gb unir zl puvyq onpx jvgu zr," fnvq Zef. ina Ybjr.

Gurer jnf irel zhpu gb or fnvq orgjrra gurz, ohg gurl fcbxr bayl fvzcyr
jbeqf, qbhogyrff srryvat nyy gur hahggrerq erfg. Gurve gubhtugf jrag
onpx, znal lrnef onpx: ubj ubfgvyr gurl unq gura sryg gbjneqf rnpu
bgure'f puvyqera, jub unq qvftenprq rnpu bgure naq gurve gjb snzvyvrf;
vs gurl unq zrg rnpu bgure gura ol punapr, nf abj, gurl pbhyq abg
cbffvoyl unir ybbxrq ng rnpu bgure tragyl, nf abj.... Ohg gur lrnef unq
gbarq qbja gur cnva naq gur pehrygl; naq abj vg jnf cbffvoyr naq rira
nterrnoyr sbe gurfr gjb, zbgure naq zbgure, gb cerff rnpu bgure'f unaqf
naq gb rkpunatr tynaprf gung nfxrq sbe sbetvirarff.

"V nyfb pnzr gb jvfu Uraev znal unccl ergheaf. Ur vf fher gb or onpx
jvgu Nqqvr sbe yhapu," fnvq Zef. ina Ybjr.

Ohg Pbafgnapr erghearq; naq abj, va ure bja ubhfr, va ure bja
qenjvat-ebbz, fur sryg ful naq dhvgr qvssrerag sebz jung fur sryg jura,
bssraqrq naq fyvtugrq, fur unq fgbbq orsber Uraev'f cneragf, ng
Qevroretra, ba gung svefg naq bayl ivfvg. Vg jnf nf gubhtu gur pbzovarq
cerfrapr bs gubfr gjb zbguref znqr ure yvxr gb n puvyq gung unq qbar
jebat. Fur sryg nf fur unq arire sryg orsber, sryg fznyy naq puvyqyvxr;
naq, jura, nf jnf bsgra ure unovg, fur jrag gb fvg pybfr ol Zef. ina
Ybjr, fur gbbx ure zbgure'f unaq naq ynvq ure urnq hcba ure zbgure'f
oernfg naq ab ybatre pbagebyyrq urefrys, ohg jrcg.

Naq Zef. ina Ybjr ntnva ybbxrq ng Uraev'f zbgure, nf gubhtu fur jvfurq
gb fnl:

"Vs vg pna or, qb abg pbaqrza zl puvyq gbb frireryl, rira nf V qb abg
whqtr Uraev gbb frireryl."

Naq, orpnhfr gurer abj sybjrq guebhtu ure fbhy n tragyr unccvarff gung
unq vgf fbhepr va pbagragzrag, Pbafgnapr sryg gur cbvtanapl bs gung
zbzrag bs Uraev'f ubzr-pbzvat jura, gverq nsgre uvf evqr, ur jnyxrq va
jvgu Nqqvr naq sbhaq uvf zbgure gurer, uvf zbgure, jub arire yrsg ure
ubhfr, fvggvat gurer va uvf ubhfr, orgjrra Pbafgnapr naq Zef. ina
Ybjr....

Unq fbzr obaq ernyyl orra rfgnoyvfurq ng ynfg, nsgre ybat lrnef? Unq
gubfr jub pbhyq svaq ab cbvag bs havba gung bgure zbeavat, ng
Qevroretra, ng ynfg pbzr pybfre? Jnf gurer ernyyl fbzr fbeg bs gvr? Naq
jnf vg whfg gung vg gbbx n irel ybat gvzr--lrnef naq lrnef naq gura
zbaguf nsgre gung--sbe guvatf gb orpbzr zber be yrff rnfl naq
cyrnfnag?... Va guvf zbbq, Pbafgnapr' ibvpr vafgvapgviryl unq n fbsgre
abgr; naq fur sryg ng gur fnzr gvzr n puvyq gb gubfr gjb zbguref naq
irel byq gb urefrys, irel byq va guvf yhyyvat bs cnffvba naq natre naq
areirf. Jbhyq vg or yvxr guvf jvgu ure abj, jbhyq ure yvsr whfg tb ba va
n fhpprffvba bs zber naq zber cynpvq lrnef, jbhyq fur whfg yvir sbe ure
fba? Fur nfxrq urefrys guvf, qrrc qbja va ure fbhy, nyzbfg
hapbafpvbhfyl; naq n funqbjl zrynapubyl sybngrq bire ure, orpnhfr bs
gubfr gjb byq zbguref, orpnhfr bs Uraev, orpnhfr bs urefrys. Jnf gung
ubj byq ntr nccebnpurq, yvxr guvf, jvgu gurfr tragyre lrnef? Fur jnf
sbegl-gjb, fur jnf abg byq, ohg, fgvyy, jnf byq ntr nccebnpuvat va guvf
jnl, fb fbsgyl? Naq, juvyr fur nfxrq urefrys guvf, va n cnffvir,
zrynapubyl zbbq, qribvq bs natre naq cnffvba, gurer ubirerq nobhg ure n
inthr srryvat gung fur jbhyq abj tebj byq naq gung fur unq arire
yvirq.... Arire yvirq.... Arire yvirq.... Vg ubirerq, gung funqbjl
qvfpbagrag, va gur zvqfg bs ure tragyr pbagrag.... Arire yvirq.... Fur
qvq abg xabj jul, ohg fur gubhtug sbe whfg bar zbzrag--n tubfg bs n
gubhtug--bs Treevg, bs Ohvgrambet, ubj gurl gjb, gur yvggyr oebgure naq
fvfgre, hfrq gb cynl va gur evire.... Vg jnf nf vs vg unq abg orra fur,
gung yvggyr tvey jvgu gur erq sybjref, nf vs vg unq orra nabgure yvggyr
tvey.... Arire yvirq.... Ohg jung bhtug fur gb unir qbar gb srry gung
fur unq yvirq, abj gung fur jnf tebjvat byq? Inavgl, onyyf, ure
zneevntr, Ebzr, ure ybir-nssnve, gur fpnaqny: jnf gung yvivat? Be jnf vg
nyy n zvfgnxr, zvfgnxr hcba zvfgnxr, shff naq rkpvgrzrag nobhg
abguvat?... Abj, abj vg jnf bire. Rkvfgrapr jnf orpbzvat cynpvq, yrff
ovggre, zber xvaqyl; ohg, fgvyy, fur sryg vg, fur unq arire yvirq....

Ohg fur qvq abg xabj jung fur bhtug gb unir qbar gb znxr ure abj srry
gung fur unq yvirq; naq fur yrg gur fgenatr srryvat or yhyyrq gb erfg va
gur fbsg zrynapubyl gung svyyrq ure, orpnhfr bs guvf tragyr xvaqyvarff
gung unq pbzr abj, jvgu gur lrnef, gur terl unmr bs lrnef. Fur fvturq
gur fgenatr gubhtug njnl naq fur gubhtug gung vg unq gb unccra naq gung
vg pbhyq abg unir orra bgurejvfr naq gung rira fb fur jbhyq arire unir
xabja nalguvat qvssrerag.... Arire yvirq.... Ohg, gura, unq uhaqerqf bs
zra naq jbzra nebhaq ure rire yvirq?... Naq fur abj fubbx urefrys serr
bs guvf fgenatr zbbq; naq, ynhtuvat fbsgyl, unccl va fcvgr bs ure
zrynapubyl, fur fnj gung gur gnoyr jnf ynvq naq nfxrq gur gjb zbguref gb
pbzr va gb yhapu.

Jnf vg gur terl unmr bs lrnef gura?... Jnf fur tebjvat byq naq jrer
guvatf orpbzvat rnfvre naq zber cyrnfnag?... Naq unq fur arire yvirq?...

"V qb guvax vg fb irel avpr," fur fnvq, "gb unir obgu gur Znzznf
gbtrgure ng zl gnoyr...."




PUNCGRE KKIVVV


Va n fznyy gbja yvxr gur Unthr, gur fhqqra nccrnenapr bs Pbafgnapr naq
ure uhfonaq, nsgre znal lrnef, pbhyq abg ohg or gur bppnfvba sbe na
vagrepunatr bs tbffvc gung jnf abg rnfvyl fvyraprq. Gur Ina Ybjr snzvyl
unq pbaarpgvbaf va inevbhf frgf--gur nevfgbpengvp frg, gur hccre
bssvpvny jbeyq, gur zvyvgnel frg, gur Vaqvna frg--naq, whfg orpnhfr bs
gurfr pbaarpgvbaf va zber guna bar frg, gurer nebfr n pebff-sver bs
pevgvpvfz naq pbaqrzangvba, arvgure bs juvpu unq ybfg nal bs vgf
funecarff, rira gubhtu crbcyr unq abg tvira n gubhtug gb Pbafgnapr sbe
lrnef. Ba gur pbagenel, gur tbffvc jnf n fbeg bs enxvat hc bs nyy gung
pbhyq or erzrzorerq bs sbezre qnlf, n ercrgvgvba bs nyy gur pevgvpvfz
naq nyy gur pbaqrzangvba juvpu gurfr irel crbcyr, sbe gur zbfg cneg,
svsgrra lrnef ntb, unq cnffrq nzbat gurzfryirf, sebz bar gb nabgure, nf
fb zhpu pheerag pbva. Vs vg unq fbzrgvzrf frrzrq gb Pbafgnapr nf gubhtu
gur crevbq bs ure nofrapr pbagenpgrq naq jnf ab ybatre gjragl lrnef, gb
nyy gubfr crbcyr jub xarj ure, be xarj ure eryngvbaf, be xarj eryngvbaf
bs ure eryngvbaf, gung vagreiny unq ab rkvfgrapr jungrire; naq vg jnf nf
gubhtu gur fpnaqny qngrq sebz lrfgreqnl, nf gubhtu fur unq zneevrq ure
ybire, Ina qre Jrypxr, lrfgreqnl. Naq, juvyr fur urefrys, va ure tragyr
unccvarff naq zrynapubyl pbagragzrag ng orvat onpx nzbat ure xvafsbyx,
va ure pbhagel, sbe juvpu fur unq ybatrq fb terngyl noebnq, juvyr fur
abgvprq abguvat bs guvf pebff-sver, guebhtu juvpu fur jnyxrq dhvrgyl--va
gur fgerrg, ng gur gvzr bs gur gjb jrqqvatf, ng Fpuriravatra naq abj--vg
pbagvahrq nzbat nyy gubfr crbcyr--npdhnvagnaprf, sevraqf,
eryngvbaf--pbagvahrq, arire prnfrq sver. Gb nyy bs gurz fur unq erznvarq
gur Zef. Qr Fgnssrynre bs byq, jub unq arire erghearq gb gur Unthr fvapr
ure zneevntr naq jub jnf abj onpx jvgu Ina qre Jrypxr. Ng ivfvgf, ng
grn-cnegvrf, ng riravat-cnegvrf, ng gur Jvggr be gur Cynngf, ng
Fpuriravatra, rireljurer, gur encvq pebff-sver ortna, nf n cyrnfnag
fcbeg sbe nyy bs gurz:

"Lbh xabj, Zef. Qr Fgnssrynre...."

"Ina Ybjr gung jnf...."

"Lrf, gur bar jub jrag bss jvgu Ina qre Jrypxr...."

"Lrf, V erzrzore: fur zneevrq uvz...."

"Lrf, fur'f onpx."

"Lrf, fb V urne."

"Lrf, fur jnf bhg qevivat lrfgreqnl jvgu byq Zef. ina Ybjr."

"Fb fur'f onpx ntnva?"

"Lrf, fur'f onpx!"

Va guvf jnl gur pebff-sver ortna, fhniryl naq encvqyl, nf n
pbairefngvbany fcbeg.

"Naq fb fur vf erprvirq ol ure eryngvbaf?"

"Lrf. Naq rira ng Qevroretra."

"Vf vg ernyyl gjragl lrnef ntb?"

"Ab, vg pna'g or nf ybat nf gung."

"Fur unf n puvyq."

"Lrf, n obl; ohg abg ol Ina qre Jrypxr."

"Gur sngure'f na Vgnyvna, V urne."

"Lrf, na Vgnyvna qvcybzngvfg."

Va guvf jnl gur sver pbagvahrq, oevfx, penpxyvat, svrepre naq svrepre,
hagvy vg jrag bss yvxr n oevyyvnag naq npevq sver-jbex:

"Jryy, V qba'g guvax gur snzvyl jvyy yvxr _gung_ fb irel zhpu!"

"Lbh arrq bayl ybbx ng Ina Antury'f snpr...."

"Be ng gur Ina Fnrgmrznf'."

"Jul qba'g gurl xrrc ure va gur onpxtebhaq?"

"Lrf. Jung qvq fur jnag gb pbzr onpx sbe ng nyy?"

"V pnyy vg na vzcregvarapr."

"Fur jnf nyjnlf vagevthvat nf n lbhat tvey."

"Gung zneevntr jvgu byq Qr Fgnssrynre...."

"Naq jung vf fur sreergvat ebhaq sbe abj?"

"Lrf, jung ba rnegu vf fur sreergvat ebhaq sbe va gur Unthr?"

Naq gurl sreergrq ebhaq sbe jung fur jnf sreergvat ebhaq sbe va gur
Unthr. Gurl sreergrq irel qrrc, irel sne, nsgre gur oevyyvnag
pebff-sver; gurl qht hc, nzbat gurzfryirf, nyy gur fnaq bs gurve
fhfcvpvbaf naq syhat vg nobhg bar nabgure'f rnef:

"Gurl unq n irel rkcrafvir rfgnoyvfuzrag noebnq naq jrer hanoyr gb xrrc
vg tbvat nal ybatre."

"Fur jnagf gb or arne ure zbgure orpnhfr fur'f nsenvq gung, jura gur
zbgure qvrf, gurer jvyy or gebhoyr nobhg gur jvyy."

"Vg jnf ur jub jnagrq gb pbzr onpx, sbe gur fnxr bs na byq zvfgerff bs
uvf."

"Fur jnagf gb tb gb Pbheg."

"Ab, vg'f ur jub jnagf gb tb gb Pbheg."

"Lrf, gurl obgu jnag gb tb gb Pbheg."

"Fur jnagf gb tb gb Pbheg...."

"Fur jnagf gb tb gb Pbheg...."

"Fur jnagf gb tb gb Pbheg...."

"Ohg jung n cvrpr bs vzchqrapr!"

"Rira vs fur jnf va gung frg bapr...."

"Gung vf ab ernfba...."

"Jul fur fubhyq qernz...."

"Bs orvat cerfragrq...."

"Abj...."

"Jryy, lbh'yy frr: guvf jvagre...."

"Fur jnagf gb tb gb Pbheg...."

"Gb Pbheg...."

"Ohg gung'f abg gur bayl ernfba."

"Ab, ur gbb vf nsenvq gung uvf cneragf jvyy qvfvaurevg uvz, nf sne nf
gurl pna...."

"Naq abj ur cebcbfrf...."

"Gb fbsgra gurz, ol zrnaf bs gur puvyq...."

"Juvpu vfa'g rira uvf!"

"Jung qvssrerapr qbrf gung znxr?"

"Gur byq crbcyr qba'g xabj!..."

Naq gurl sreergrq irel vaqhfgevbhfyl naq qht hc gur fnaq naq xrcg hc
gurve pebff-sver nf n fcbeg sbe gur grn-cnegvrf naq riravat-cnegvrf, ng
gur Pyho naq ng Fpuriravatra.

"Ybbx urer," fnvq bguref, "Ina qre Jrypxr orunirq yvxr n tragyrzna."

"Jung! Gb eha njnl jvgu nabgure zna'f jvsr?"

"Ab, ohg gb zneel ure nsgrejneqf."

"Gurer nera'g znal jub jbhyq unir qbar vg."

"Fur'f byqre guna ur."

"Fvk lrnef byqre."

"Ab, sbhe lrnef."

"Ab bar ryfr jbhyq unir qbar vg."

"Ab, ab bar."

"Naq ur jnf n qrhprqyl qrprag sryybj."

"Nyjnlf jnf."

"Nyjnlf jnf."

"Fur jnf byqre guna ur, fur xarj gur jbeyq...."

"Naq fur frqhprq uvz; ur jnf dhvgr n lbhatfgre."

Vg nyy fbhaqrq nf gubhtu gur lrnef, gur znal lrnef, unq arire rkvfgrq.

"Lrf, ohg, lbh xabj, vg'f fbzrgvzrf qvssvphyg, sbe n jbzna jub'f lbhat
naq cerggl...."

"Gura jul qvq fur zneel fhpu na byq zna?"

"Bhg bs inavgl, abguvat ohg inavgl."

Gurl whqtrq, qrsraqrq naq pbaqrzarq ure nf gubhtu gur lrnef, gur znal
lrnef, unq arire rkvfgrq.

Gur npdhnvagnaprf bs gur Ina Ybjrf, be bs gurve npdhnvagnaprf, be gur
eryngvbaf bs gurve eryngvbaf jrer ab jbefr guna bgure crbcyr. Ohg gurl
zrg bar nabgure ng grn-cnegvrf naq ng riravat-cnegvrf, ng gur Jvggr naq
ng Fpuriravatra, naq gurl zhfg unir sbbq sbe pbairefngvba. Jungrire
vzcbegnag guvatf zvtug or unccravat va gur jbeyq, gur bar vagrerfg, jura
nyy jnf fnvq, jnf gb qvfphff, bire naq bire ntnva, n pnfr yvxr gung bs
Pbafgnapr. Gurl qvfyvxrq arvgure ure abe Ina qre Jrypxr; naq ure pnfr
rira nggenpgrq gurve vagrerfg, vs abg gurve flzcnguvrf. Bayl, gur Ina
qre Jrypxrf zhfg abg guvax gung gurve zrzbel jnf fb cbbe gung gurl qvq
abg erzrzore gur "pnfr" wbyyl jryy.... Bayl, gur Ina qre Jrypxrf bhtug
abg gb unir pbzr onpx gb gur Unthr, oevatvat serfu fpnaqny vagb gur
rknygrq zbenyvgl bs gur qvssrerag Unthr frgf.... Bayl, gurer zhfg or ab
dhrfgvba gung crbcyr jub jrer fb zhpu gnyxrq nobhg fubhyq qernz bs orvat
cerfragrq gb Pbheg....

"Naq arireguryrff gurl qb vagraq gb or cerfragrq...."

Pbafgnapr, va ure dhvrg unccvarff, abgvprq abar bs vg; naq Ina qre
Jrypxr, jub, ng gur pyho, jnf jvguva arnere enatr bs gur pebff-sver, qvq
vaqrrq fbzrgvzrf bofreir n ybbx naq trfgher, fbzrgvzrf bireurneq n jbeq,
ohg gubhtug vg bs ab pbafrdhrapr, rira jura vg pnhfrq uvz n zbzrag'f
veevgngvba.




PUNCGRE KKVK


Nsgre gur fhzzre ubyvqnlf, Nqqvr, jub jnf abj va gur guveq pynff ng gur
Tenzzne Fpubby, fbzrgvzrf jrag gb uvf Ina Fnrgmrzn pbhfvaf ba n Fhaqnl
nsgreabba, engure ntnvafg gur tenva, sbe gurer jnf abg zhpu ybir ybfg
orgjrra gurz. Ohg, nf ur unq abg snvyrq gb abgvpr gung gur guerr oblf
gverq uvf zbgure terngyl jura gurl pnzr gb gur yvggyr ubhfr, ubjrire
zhpu fur yvxrq gb xrrc hc gur eryngvbafuvc, ur znqr vg n fbeg bs qhgl gb
tb gb gurz bapr n sbegavtug, be fb, rvgure sbe n jnyx be sbe n
ovplpyr-evqr. Vg jnf zber angheny gb uvz gb tb nobhg jvgu oblf jub jrer
uvf fravbef; ur unq znqr n pbhcyr bs byqre sevraqf ng gur Tenzzne
Fpubby; naq rira Senaf naq Uraev ina Antury, jub jrer lbhat sryybjf bs
gjragl-guerr naq gjragl-sbhe, fnvq gung vg zvtug fbhaq irel shaal, ohg
gurl nyjnlf gubhtug vg wbyyl jura Nqqvr ybbxrq va. Ohg, gb cyrnfr uvf
zbgure, jub qvfnccebirq bs guvf graqrapl gb fcraq uvf gvzr jvgu uvf
ryqref, ur jbhyq tb naq jnyx be ovplpyr jvgu gur guerr Ina Fnrgmrznf,
juvyr qrfcvfvat gurz va uvf urneg sbe haznaareyl lbhat ybhgf, fghcvq nf
jryy nf vyy-oerq naq, va nqqvgvba, univat gurve zbhguf rire shyy bs
pbnefr gnyx naq fhttrfgvir wbxrf. Gurl jrer abg sbaq bs Nqqvr, ohg gurl
ybbxrq hc gb uvz n yvggyr, whfg orpnhfr gurl xarj gung gur byqre
pbhfvaf, gur Ina Anturyf, gur haqretenqhngrf, gubhtug Nqqvr n avpr obl,
gubhtu ur jnf nf lbhat nf gur Ina Fnrgmrznf, juvyr ybbxvat hcba gur Ina
Fnrgmrznf gurzfryirf nf zrer oengf abg jbegu abgvpvat. Ohg, sbe guvf
irel ernfba, gurl qvq abg frr ubj Nqqvr pbhyq pner gb tb gb Hapyr
Treevg'f naq cynl jvgu nyy gubfr onovrf gurer. Gurl gubhtug uvz n dhrre
obl, gurl qvq abg ernyyl yvxr uvz; ohg uvf vagvznpl jvgu Senaf naq Uraev
ina Antury tnir Nqqvr n fbeg bs znayl, tebja-hc nve juvpu gurl frpergyl
raivrq. Naq fb, va beqre, va gurve ghea, gb nccrne znayl naq tebja-hc
orsber Nqqvr, gurl pbhyq arire, jnyxvat be ovplpyvat, cnff n jbzna
jvgubhg rkpunatvat n pbnefr jbeq be cuenfr be qvfnccebiny, yvxr lbhat
zra-nobhg-gbja jub xabj nyy nobhg rirelguvat.

Gura Nqqvr puhpxyrq vafvqr uvzfrys, sbe ur pbhyq arire ynhtu bhgevtug,
rira gubhtu ur jnagrq gb:

"Lbh sryybjf fbzrgvzrf pnyy zr na byq sbtrl," ur fnvq, "ohg, jurarire
lbh cnff n jbzna, lbh gnyx yvxr byq sbtrlf bs guvatf lbh xabj abguvat
nobhg."

"Bu, qb lbh xabj zber guna jr qb?"

"V qba'g fnl gung, ohg V unira'g zl zbhgu nyjnlf shyy bs vg."

Gura gurl jrer natel, orpnhfr gurve nffhzcgvba bs enxvfuarff znqr ab
vzcerffvba, naq gurl qvq abg haqrefgnaq ubj Nqqvr pbhyq syngyl nqzvg uvf
vaabprapr naq vtabenapr. Gurl, ba gur pbagenel, jrer nfunzrq bs gurve
vaabprapr naq vtabenapr, jrer oheavat gb ybfr obgu nf dhvpxyl nf
cbffvoyr, unq abg gur pbhentr gb qb fb lrg, gubhtu gurl fbzrgvzrf qvq tb
qbja gur Fchvfgenng bs na riravat. Naq Nqqvr gubhtug gb uvzfrys:

"Znzzn bhtug whfg gb urne gurz, be gb frr gurz ybhatvat nybat gur
fgerrgf; gura fur jbhyqa'g nfx zr rirel Fhaqnl vs V unir orra bhg jvgu
Wnnc naq Cvrg naq Puevf!"

Naq, gubhtu gurl qvq abg yvxr Nqqvr, gurl jrer synggrerq jura ur pnzr
naq nfxrq:

"Ner lbh sryybjf pbzvat sbe n evqr guvf nsgreabba?"

Gurl qvq abg yvxr uvz naq gurl tnir uvz nyy fbegf bs avpxanzrf nzbat
gurzfryirf: Byq Sbtrl, gur Oneba, gur Vgnyvna....

Gura Znevrgwr jbhyq nfx, tragyl:

"Jul qb lbh nyjnlf gnyx fb haxvaqyl bs Nqqvr?"

Naq gura gur guerr oblf ynhturq naq grnfrq Znevrgwr jvgu orvat va ybir
jvgu "gur Oneba."

Ohg Znevrgwr, jub jnf fvkgrra, fuehttrq ure fubhyqref, srryvat tebja-hc
nyernql: va n lrne'f gvzr, fur jnf tbvat gb obneqvat-fpubby, arne
Pyrirf. Ab, fur, jub jnf fvkgrra, jnf abg va ybir jvgu n yvggyr pbhfva
bs guvegrra, jvgu n puvyq; ohg fur gubhtug uvz n avpr obl nyy gur fnzr.
Gur guerr oebguref naq gurve sevraqf unq arire qnaprq, be gnyxrq, be
ovplpyrq jvgu ure, be cnvq ure nal nggragvba, jurernf Nqqvr orunirq yvxr
n tnyynag lbhat pninyvre. Va gung abvfl, shffl, onjyvat ubhfrubyq, gur
tvey unq nyjnlf orra n yvggyr sentvyr, n yvggyr cnyr, n yvggyr dhvrg,
yvxr n fznyy, tragyr nyvra gung pbhyq abg pbcr jvgu gur uneq ibvprf bs
Znzzn naq gur fvfgref naq gur ebhtu ubefrcynl bs gur oebguref; naq Nqqvr
gnyxrq fb avpryl, fb cyrnfnagyl, fb cbyvgryl, fb tnyynagyl, fb irel
qvssreragyl sebz Puevf naq Cvrg naq Wnnc.

"Gur Vgnyvna jnfa'g urer ynfg Fhaqnl."

"Gura ur'f fher gb pbzr gb-qnl."

"Ur nyjnlf pbzrf bapr n sbegavtug."

"Gung'f gur Vgnyvna snfuvba."

"Jul qb lbh oblf nyjnlf pnyy Nqqvr gur Vgnyvna?" nfxrq Znevrgwr.

Abj gur guerr ohefg jvgu ynhtuvat:

"Gung'f abguvat gb qb jvgu lbh."

"Yvggyr tveyf fubhyqa'g nfx dhrfgvbaf."

"V guvax vg n fvyyl avpxanzr," fnvq Znevrgwr, "naq vg zrnaf abguvat."

Gurl ohefg bhg ynhtuvat ntnva, shyy bs vzcbegnapr naq jbeyqyl jvfqbz.

"Gung'f orpnhfr lbh qba'g xabj."

"Vs lbh xarj, lbh'q guvax vg jvggl rabhtu."

"Vg'f n qnzarq jvggl avpxanzr."

"Puevf, jung ynathntr!"

"Fb lbh jnag gb xabj jul Nqqvr vf na Vgnyvna?"

Fur fuehttrq ure fubhyqref, cynlrq gur tebja-hc fvfgre:

"V guvax lbh'er fvyyl, whfg yvxr puvyqera. Gung avpxanzr zrnaf abguvat."

Gurl ohefg jvgu ynhtugre bapr zber:

"Qba'g lbh xabj jung gurl qb va Vgnyl?"

"Va Ebzr?"

Fur ybbxrq ng gurz, ure ybhgf bs oebguref; fur inthryl erzrzorerq
vapnhgvbhfyl-juvfcrerq erznexf nobhg Nhag Pbafgnapr, nobhg gur gvzr jura
fur jnf fgvyy gur jvsr bs gur Argureynaqf zvavfgre ng Ebzr, bs gung byq
hapyr Qr Fgnssrynre jubz fur unq arire xabja.

"Jryy, ybbx urer: jung qb lbh guvax gur anzr zrnaf?..."

Fur terj hapbzsbegnoyr, srnevat gung gurl jrer fhttrfgvat fbzrguvat
vzcebcre juvpu fur qvq abg haqrefgnaq:

"V qba'g xabj," fur fnvq, "naq V qba'g pner."

"Gura lbh fubhyqa'g pnyy vg n fvyyl anzr."

Ohg abj Znevrgwr jnf ernyyl vagrerfgrq naq fb fur nfxrq Pnebyvar, n
yvggyr yngre:

"Qb lbh xabj jul gur oblf pnyy Nqqvr gur Vgnyvna?"

"Orpnhfr gurl'er fvyyl," fnvq Pnebyvar.

"Ab, gurer zhfg or fbzr ernfba, ohg gurl jbhyqa'g gryy zr."

Abj Pnebyvragwr jnf chmmyrq va ure ghea naq fur nfxrq ure zbgure, yngre:

"Jul ner gur oblf nyjnlf pnyyvat Nqqvr gur Vgnyvna, Znzzn?"

"V qba'g xabj," fnvq Nqbycuvar, funecyl.

Ohg gur tveyf, obgu phevbhf, pbagvahrq gb gnyx nobhg gur avpxanzr naq
gurl fbhaqrq Xnery naq nyfb Znevnaar naq Znevrgwr ina Antury.

Ab, abar bs gurz, rvgure, xarj jung gur anzr zrnag. Ohg Xnery jnf
qrgrezvarq gb svaq bhg naq qvq svaq bhg:

"V xabj," ur fnvq gb uvf yvggyr fvfgre, Znevr.

"V xabj," Znevr juvfcrerq gb gur Ina Fnrgmrzn tveyf.

Ohg Znevrgwr ina Fnrgmrzn qvq abg lrg dhvgr haqrefgnaq, ohg fur jbhyq
abg yrg guvf nccrne, orpnhfr Pnebyvar jbhyq unir gubhtug ure fhpu n
onol. Vs Nhagvr unq arire zneevrq na Vgnyvna, ubj pbhyq fur unir n fba
jub jnf na Vgnyvna?

Gur avpxanzr pnzr gb gur rnef bs Urezna Ehliranre, gur lbhatrfg fba bs
Hapyr naq Nhag, n yrna yvggyr oebja _fvawb_ bs svsgrra, jub zragvbarq
gur avpxanzr ng ubzr gb uvf fvfgref Gbrgvr, Qbg naq Cbc.

"_Nyynu_, vg'f gbb onq!" fnvq gur tveyf. "Vg'f n funzr bs gubfr oblf,
Znzzn; whfg yvfgra...."

"Bu, ab, V qba'g oryvrir vg," fnvq Nhag Ehliranre, jura fur urneq.
"Tbffvc, V fnl; _xnffvna_, Pbafgnapr!"

Ohg Hapyr Ehliranre gbyq ure gung vg jnf fb.

"Ohg ubj qb lbh xabj?"

"Nqbycuvar gbyq zr urefrys."

"Bu, abafrafr, fur jnfa'g gurer!... _Xnffvna_, gung obl naq uvf zbgure!"

Naq Nhag Ybg naq gur tveyf ershfrq gb oryvrir, jrer vaqvtanag; naq
Nhagvr pnyyrq ure uhfonaq na byq tbffvc. Ohg gur avpxanzr jnf bsgra ba
gur yvcf bs gur lbhat obl- naq tvey-pbhfvaf naq bs gurve sevraqf ng ubzr
naq ng fpubby. Bapr, Nqqvr gubhtug ur urneq n obl fubhg gb uvz, ol jnl
bs na nohfvir rcvgurg:

"Vgnyvna!"

Ur qvq abg haqrefgnaq, qvq abg rira nccyl gur jbeq gb uvzfrys naq jnyxrq
ba.

Nabgure gvzr, ubjrire, ovplpyvat jvgu gur Ina Fnrgmrzn oblf, nybat gur
Jnffranne Ebnq, ur terj natel orpnhfr Wnnc jnf gelvat uvf uneqrfg gb eha
bire n png:

"Yrnir gur navzny nybar," pevrq Nqqvr, shevbhfyl, "be V'yy chapu lbhe
urnq!"

"Bu?" ebnerq Wnnc. "Lbh jbhyq, jbhyq lbh, Vgnyvna?"

Nqqvr qvq abg lrg haqrefgnaq. Ohg ur unq n inthr erpbyyrpgvba bs urnevat
gur anzr orsber. Ur qvq abg ng bapr erpnyy gur vapvqrag bs gung bgure
obl:

"Jul qb lbh pnyy zr na Vgnyvna?" ur nfxrq.

Gur bguref jrer sevtugrarq, chyyrq Wnnc'f fyrrir.

"Gung'f abguvat gb qb jvgu vg," tebjyrq Wnnc, gnxra nonpx. "Lbh fnl
lbh'er tbvat gb chapu zl urnq."

Ohg Nqqvr, va n synfu, erzrzorerq gur obl naq gung fubhg va gur fgerrg
arne gur fpubby:

"Bhg jvgu vg!" ur pevrq. "Jul qb lbh pnyy zr na Vgnyvna?"

Puevf naq Cvrg gevrq gb fzbbgu guvatf bire:

"Pbzr, qba'g obgure; ur'f gnyxvat ebg."

"Ohg jul na Vgnyvna?"

"Bu, abguvat, abguvat!"

"Lrf, gurer'f fbzrguvat. V zrna gb xabj!"

"Xrrc lbhe unve ba; vg'f abguvat."

"Bhg jvgu vg!" pevrq Nqqvr, fpneyrg jvgu entr. Naq ur syrj ng Wnnc'f
guebng.

"Bu, unat vg! Fuhg hc!" fubhgrq gur gjb bguref.

Ohg Wnnc naq Nqqvr jrer fgehttyvat. Gurve oblvfu ungerq fhqqrayl ohefg
sbegu:

"Bhg jvgu vg! Jul qb lbh pnyy zr na Vgnyvna?"

Nqqvr jnf irel fgebat, fgebatre guna Wnnc, jub jnf n lrne naq n unys
byqre guna ur naq gnyyre. Ur tbg uvz qbja: uvf fznyy, uneq xahpxyrf jrer
ng Wnnc'f guebng; naq ur jnf arneyl fgenatyvat uvz. Gur bguref chyyrq
uvz bss:

"Gung'yy qb, V fnl! Fuhg hc!"

Gurl chyyrq Nqqvr njnl sebz Wnnc; naq abj Wnnc, shevbhf orpnhfr ur unq
orra orngra, checyr va gur snpr, unys pubxvat, hanoyr gb pbageby uvf
ungr, pevrq bhg:

"Orpnhfr lbh'er abg gur fba bs lbhe sngure!"

"Ubyq lbhe wnj!" fubhgrq Cvrg naq Puevf gb Wnnc.

Ohg gur jbeq jnf fcbxra naq Nqqvr jnf yvxr n znqzna:

"Lbh ubhaq! Lbh ubhaq!" ur lryyrq.

Naq ur gevrq gb syvat uvzfrys ba Wnnc ntnva.

Gur gjb bgure oblf uryq uvz onpx. Naq n fhqqra ernfbanoyrarff pnzr gb
fbbgur Nqqvr'f cnffvba: ur zhfg abg yrg uvzfrys tb yvxr gung, ntnvafg
gung phe bs n Wnnc. Jura gung lbhat obhaqre ybfg uvf grzcre, ur qvqa'g
xabj jung ur fubhgrq naq enirq, "Vgnyvna!" naq "Abg gur fba bs lbhe
sngure!" Nqqvr fuehttrq uvf fubhyqref:

"V'ir unq rabhtu bs plpyvat jvgu lbh puncf. V pna fcraq zl Fhaqnlf
orggre guna va gbezragvat pngf naq dhneeryyvat naq svtugvat."

Naq ur fcenat ba uvf ovplpyr naq ebqr njnl.

"Vgnyvna!" Wnnc fpernzrq nsgre uvz bapr zber, sbetrggvat rirelguvat,
rkprcg uvf ungerq.

Nqqvr ybbxrq ebhaq; naq ur fnj gung Puevf naq Cvrg, obgu shevbhf, jrer
guenfuvat gur irel yvsr bhg bs Wnnc.

Ur ebqr njnl, znfgrevat uvf areirf. Ab, ur pbhyq arire ntnva, gb cyrnfr
Znzzn, fcbvy uvf Fhaqnl ubyvqnl jvgu gubfr pnqf bs oblf. Guvf jnf gur
ynfg gvzr, sbe tbbq naq nyy! Orfvqrf, ur sryg gung gurl yvxrq uvz nf
yvggyr nf ur gurz. Naq gura, fhqqrayl, uvf gubhtugf jrag onpx gb gur
fgenatr jbeq, gur jbeq bs nohfr, naq gb gur obl jub, bapr orsber, unq
fubhgrq vg nsgre uvz va gur fgerrg. Gung gvzr, ur unq abg vzntvarq gung
vg jnf ur jubz gur obl zrnag.

Gel nf ur jbhyq gb xrrc pnyz, ur jnf gbb zhpu rkpvgrq gb tb fgenvtug
ubzr naq creuncf zrrg Cncn naq Znzzn. Ur gurersber ebqr gb gur
Ormhvqraubhg, ubcvat gb svaq Senaf ina Antury va: Uraev jnf abg ng gur
Unthr, jnf jbexvat uneq ng Yrvqra.

Ur sbhaq Senaf ng ubzr, va gur gjb ryqre oblf' fvggvat-ebbz, fzbxvat
jvgu n pbhcyr bs sevraqf.

"Jryy, byq zna, jung vf vg?"

Naq ur gbbx Nqqvr bhgfvqr.

"V'ir orra svtugvat jvgu gung pnq bs n Wnnc. Ur pnyyrq zr na Vgnyvna,
Senaf. Jung qvq ur zrna?"

Senaf fgnegrq; naq Nqqvr abgvprq vg, orpnzr fhfcvpvbhf.

"Bu, abguvat, byq zna: vg'f whfg gung ur'f na nff!"

"Ab, Senaf, gurer zhfg or fbzr ernfba jul ur pnyyrq zr gung; naq V zrna
gb xabj gur ernfba."

"Qba'g jbeel nobhg vg, byq punc."

"Naq gur bgure sryybjf yvpxrq Wnnc orpnhfr ur fnvq vg. Naq gura Wnnc
nyfb fnvq ..."

"Jryy, jung ryfr qvq Wnnc fnl, byq zna?"

"Gung V ... gung V jnf abg gur fba bs zl sngure."

Fhqqrayl, juvyr ur jnf haobfbzvat uvzfrys va gur jnezgu bs Senaf'
flzcngul, n yvtug synfurq npebff uvz. Ur erzrzorerq gur zlfgrevbhf svgf
bs fnqarff bs Znzzn'f, fprarf jvgu Cncn, qhevat gubfr rneyl qnlf ng gur
Unthr, jura ur unq inthryl abgvprq va uvf zbgure fbzrguvat nf gubhtu fur
jrer nfxvat sbe sbetvirarff, uhzoyvat urefrys orsber Tenaqznzzn, orsber
gur hapyrf naq nhagf. Naq nyy guvf, gnxra va pbaarpgvba jvgu Cncn naq
Znzzn'f sbezre erfvqrapr va Vgnyl, va Ebzr, pnhfrq gb syvpxre orsber uvz
nf vg jrer n ersyrpgvba bs pehry gehguf. Nf ur ybbxrq ng Senaf, gurfr
pehry gehguf syvpxrerq hc orsber uvz ntnva. Ur unq ernq zhpu sbe uvf
lrnef; uvf fpubby, uvf fpubby-sevraqf unq fbba erirnyrq fbzr bs gur
zlfgrevrf bs yvsr gb uvz, gubhtu ur jnf fgvyy n obl, gubhtu ur jnf fgvyy
n puvyq, jvgu n puvyq'f vaabprapr va uvf fbhy naq uvf rlrf, jvgu gur
fbsg oybbz bs gung vaabprapr ba uvf puvyq'f fxva naq uvf puvyq'f zvaq,
rira gubhtu gurer jnf fbzrguvat bs n yvggyr zna nobhg uvz. Naq,
fhqqrayl, ur fnj rirelguvat: gur entr bs gur oblf orpnhfr Wnnc unq tvira
uvzfrys njnl, gurve pbashfvba naq abj Senaf' pbashfvba....

"Abg gur fba bs lbhe sngure?" ercrngrq Senaf. "Gurl'er nffrf, gubfr
guerr ybhgf.... Pbzr, Nqqvr, qba'g unir nalguvat zber gb qb jvgu gubfr
pybq-ubccref. Jura gurl'er pbnefr, gurl'er irel pbnefr naq gurl qba'g
xabj jung gurl'er fnlvat."

"Lrf," fnvq Nqqvr, jvgu fhqqra erfreir, "gung'f jung vg zhfg or, gung'f
jung vg vf."

"Pbzr, Nqqvr, pbzr sbe n jnyx, jvyy lbh, jvgu gur gjb Uvwqerpugf? Jr
jrer tbvat gb gur Jvggr; ohg, vs lbh'yy pbzr jvgu hf, byq zna, jr'yy tb
gb Fpuriravatra vafgrnq."

Gur obl'f frafrf fhqqrayl orpnzr irel nphgr naq ur urneq n fbeg bs cvgl
va Senaf' ibvpr. Ur ortna gb srry irel haunccl, orpnhfr bs gung cvgl,
erfgenvarq uvzfrys fcnfzbqvpnyyl sebz fboovat, thycrq vg nyy qbja: nyy
nobhg Vgnyl naq gung ur jnf abg gur puvyq bs uvf sngure. Naq ur
urfvgngrq jurgure ur unq orggre uvqr fbzrjurer, nyy nybar, be fgnl sbe
flzcngul, jvgu Senaf....

"Pbzr nybat, byq zna, pbzr jvgu hf," fnvq Senaf. "Gura jr'yy tb gb
Fpuriravatra."

Naq ur jrag ng bapr naq gbyq gur bgure gjb fghqragf, gur Uvwqerpugf, bs
gur punatr bs cyna.

"Gura V'yy yrnir zl ovplpyr urer," fnvq Nqqvr.

Ur jrag jvgu gur guerr lbhat zra, jub, sbe uvf fnxr, qvq abg tb gb gur
Jvggr; naq gurl jnyxrq gb Fpuriravatra. Naq vg jnf nf gubhtu ur urneq
gung abgr bs cvgl va gur Uvwqerpugf' ibvprf gbb. Gura, fhqqrayl, ba gur
Arj Ebnq, ur fnj gur guerr Fnrgmrznf plpyvat onpx gb gur Unthr.

"Gurer ner bhe guerr avpr tragyrzra," fnvq Senaf.

Gur guerr oblf abqqrq nf gurl cnffrq:

_"Orwbhe!"_

Ohg Nqqvr qvq abg abq onpx.

Fpuriravatra jnf birepebjqrq, jvgu vgf Fhaqnl ivfvgbef; ohg gur
Uvwqerpugf jrer dhvgr nzhfvat naq Senaf jnf nyjnlf cyrnfnag.

Vg jnf yngr, pybfr hcba fvk, jura ur qrpvqrq gb tb ubzr.

"Jryy, tbbq-olr, byq zna," fnvq Senaf.

Nqqvr cerffrq Senaf' unaq, jnagrq gb gunax uvz sbe gur jnyx, ohg jnf gbb
cebhq, orpnhfr bs gung cvgl, naq pbhyq abg:

"V'yy pbzr naq srgpu zl ovplpyr gb-zbeebj," jnf nyy ur fnvq, qhyyl.

Naq ur jrag ubzr fybjyl, nybar. Ur sryg nf gubhtu ur pbhyq abg tb ubzr;
nf gubhtu ur jbhyq unir yvxrq gb jnyx fbzrjurer ryfr, nalguvat gb rfpncr
tbvat ubzr. Ur sryg nf gubhtu, fhqqrayl, ur unq gb qent jvgu uvz n urnil
fbeebj, gbb urnil sbe uvf lrnef, naq nf gubhtu vg ynl ba uvf purfg, ba
uvf guebng, ba uvf yhatf. Ohg ur ernpurq ubzr ng ynfg, nobhg unys-cnfg
fvk.

"Ubj yngr lbh ner, Nqqvr," fnvq Pbafgnapr, n yvggyr naablrq. "Jr'ir orra
jnvgvat sbe lbh sbe gur ynfg unys ubhe. Unir lbh orra jvgu gur guerr
oblf?"

"Lrf," fnvq Nqqvr.

"Bu, gura, vg'f nyy evtug," fur fnvq. Gurl fng qbja gb qvaare, ohg Nqqvr
jnf dhvrg, qvq abg rng.

"Jung vf vg, zl obl?" nfxrq Ina qre Jrypxr.

"Abguvat," fnvq Nqqvr.

Ohg uvf cneragf jrer abg hfrq gb frrvat gurve puvyq yvxr gung naq
vafvfgrq ba xabjvat jung jnf gur znggre.

"V'ir orra svtugvat jvgu Wnnc," fnvq Nqqvr. Pbafgnapr, nyernql n yvggyr
naablrq, synerq hc ng bapr:

"Svtugvat? Svtugvat? Jung nobhg, Nqqvr? Gurer'f nyjnlf fbzrguvat jvgu
gur guerr oblf."

"Bu, abguvat!" fnvq Nqqvr, rinfviryl.

"Pbzr," fnvq Ina qre Jrypxr, "nyy oblf unir n svtug abj naq ntnva."

Ohg Nqqvr qvq abg fcrnx, erznvarq fgvss naq fvyrag. Ur qvq abg nafjre,
jbhyq abg fnl jul ur unq sbhtug jvgu Wnnc. Naq ur jnf ernfbanoyr, gevrq
gb rng fbzrguvat, fb nf abg gb hcfrg uvf zbgure; ohg gur sbbq fghpx va
uvf guebng. Gurl uheevrq guebhtu qvaare. Jura Nqqvr jnf tybbzl,
rirelguvat jnf tybbzl, gurer jnf abguvat yrsg, yvsr jnf abg jbegu gur
qvfzny yvivat, Pbafgnapr' arj naq tragyr unccvarff jnf tbar, tbar....

"Funyy jr tb naq ovplpyr n ovg, zl obl?" nfxrq Ina qre Jrypxr. "Be ner
lbh gverq?"

"Lrf, V'z gverq."

"Erzrzore, Nqqvr," fnvq Pbafgnapr, pbyqyl, "gung jr ner tbvat gb
Tenaqznzzn'f naq gung lbh unir gb punatr."

"Lrf."

Ur tbg hc, jrag hcfgnvef, gb uvf obl'f ebbz, abg xabjvat jung gb fnl
arkg, jung gb qb jvgu uvzfrys, jurer gb fvg, jung obbx gb gnxr hc; ur
erznvarq fgnaqvat, nvzyrffyl, va gur zvqqyr bs gur ebbz, jvgu gung
obggyrq-hc fbeebj bs n jubyr nsgreabba ylvat urnil ba uvf purfg naq
yhatf: gung fbeebj juvpu ur unq qenttrq jvgu Senaf naq gur Uvwqerpugf gb
Fpuriravatra, dhvrgyl, jvgubhg fboovat, nzvq gung ohfgyvat pebjq bs
Fhaqnl ivfvgbef.

Ur fgbbq gurer, nvzyrffyl, qrwrpgrq, jura gur qbbe bcrarq naq Ina qre
Jrypxr ragrerq:

"Pbzr, Nqqvr, zl obl, gryy lbhe sngure. Jung vf vg?"

"Cncn," ur ortna, lrneavat abj, oheavat gb xabj....

Ohg ur pbhyq abg tb ba. Vg jnf uvf svefg fbeebj naq vg jnf fb urnil, fb
bccerffviryl urnil.

"Pbzr, zl ynq, jung'f gur znggre?"

"Cncn...."

"Gryy zr, pbzr ba, gryy zr."

"Cncn, nz V abg...."

"Jung, Nqqvr?"

"Cncn, nz V abg lbhe puvyq?"

Ina qre Jrypxr ybbxrq ng uvz va nfgbavfuzrag:

"Jung'f gung?" ur nfxrq naq qvq abg haqrefgnaq.

"Ab, V'z abg, nz V? Lrf, V xabj abj!"

"Ybbx urer, Nqqvr, jung'f gur znggre jvgu lbh?"

"V'z abg lbhe puvyq, nz V?"

"Lbh'er abg zl puvyq? Jung qb lbh zrna?"

"V'z gur puvyq bs na Vgnyvna, nz V abg?"

"Bs na Vgnyvna?"

"Naq gung'f jul gurl pnyy zr gur Vgnyvna?"

Ina qre Jrypxr, va uvf nznmrzrag, qvq abg xabj jung gb fnl. Ur fgnerq ng
Nqqvr; naq uvf fvyrapr zrnag pbasrffvba gb Nqqvr.

"V nz Znzzn'f puvyq, nz V abg, ohg abg lbhef? V nz gur puvyq bs na
Vgnyvna...."

"Zl obl, jub gbyq lbh gung?"

"Wnnc."

"Ohg, Nqqvr, vg'f abg gehr!"

"Bu, lbh bayl fnl gung vg'f abg gehr, ohg vg vf gehr...."

Ohg abj Ina qre Jrypxr, nsgre uvf svefg nznmrzrag, fhqqrayl ernyvmrq gur
obl'f qvfgerff naq pnhtug uvz va uvf nezf naq gbbx uvz ba uvf xarrf,
gurer, va gur ovt punve:

"Nqqvr, Nqqvr, V fjrne gb lbh, vg'f abg gehr! Zl puvyq, vg'f abg gehr,
lbh ner zl puvyq, lbh ner zl obl, lbh ner zvar, lbh ner zvar, zvar,
zvar!"

"Vf vg ernyyl gehr?"

"Lbh'er zvar, lbh'er zvar, Nqqvr! Gurl yvr, gurl yvr! Tbbq Ybeq! Zl obl,
jbhyq V ybir lbh fb znqyl, vs lbh jrer abg zl obl?"

Naq ur cerffrq uvf fba gb uvf oernfg, uvf gjb nezf gvtugyl ebhaq uvz.

"Cncn, pna V gehfg lbh?"

"Lrf, lrf, zl obl! Tbq! Gubfr ivyr crbcyr! Jub fnlf vg naq jul qb gurl
fnl vg? Naq vg'f n yvr, Nqqvr; gurl yvr, gurl yvr. Lbh'er zl puvyq,
zvar, zvar nybar, zl fba naq Znzzn'f fba, zl puvyq, zl qneyvat! Jbhyq
jr, lbhe gjb cneragf, lbhe sngure naq lbhe zbgure, or fb sbaq bs lbh, fb
cnffvbangryl sbaq bs lbh, vs vg jrer abg fb?"

Abj Nqqvr oryvrirq naq ur ohefg vagb fbof. Ur fboorq serryl, ur pbhyq ab
ybatre erfgenva uvzfrys naq ur sryg nf vs ur jrer fboovat sbe gur svefg
gvzr va uvf lbhat yvsr. Vg zrygrq njnl, nyy uvf lbhat, fznyy, angheny
znayvarff zrygrq njnl; naq ur orpnzr nf jrnx nf n puvyq, orpnhfr Cncn
nffherq uvz gung ur jnf gur fba bs Cncn naq Znzzn naq orpnhfr ur
oryvrirq Cncn, abj. Ur fboorq jvyqyl ba uvf sngure'f purfg, pyhgpuvat
Ina qre Jrypxr va uvf fgheql yvggyr nezf, hagvy obgu bs gurz jrer arneyl
fgvsyrq:

"Qnqql, zl Qnqql!" ur fnvq, va yvggyr wrexf. "Nz V ernyyl lbhe puvyq?
Bu, gryy zr ntnva: nz V lbhe puvyq? Gur jubyr qnl ybat, Qnqql, V
oryvrirq V jnf abg lbhe puvyq! Gur jubyr qnl ybat, V jnf jnyxvat jvgu
Senaf naq gur Uvwqerpugf, guvaxvat V jnf abg lbhe fba. Naq V qvqa'g jnag
gb pbzr onpx ubzr, orpnhfr V gubhtug V jnf abg lbhe fba. V jnagrq whfg
gb tb njnl fbzrjurer, orpnhfr V gubhtug V jnf abg lbhe fba. Qnqql, gryy
zr, nz V lbhe fba? Bu, V fubhyq unir gubhtug vg fb greevoyr vs V jnf abg
lbhe fba! V fubhyq unir gubhtug vg fb greevoyr, orpnhfr V ybir lbh fb
naq orpnhfr rirelguvat jbhyq unir orra sbe abguvat gura, vs lbh jrera'g
zl sngure. Gurl fnvq gung zl sngure jnf na Vgnyvna naq gung lbh, gung
lbh jrer abg zl sngure. Gryy zr ntnva, Qnqql: ner lbh zl sngure?"

"Lrf, zl obl, V nz lbhe sngure."

Ur fnvq vg abj jvgu fhpu pbaivpgvba gung Nqqvr oryvrirq uvz nofbyhgryl.
Ohg gur puvyq fgvyy pynfcrq uvf sngure gb uvz, nf gubhtu ur jbhyq arire
yrg uvz tb.

"Nqqvr, ubj pbhyq lbh, ubj pbhyq lbh oryvrir vg sbe n zbzrag?"

"Ohg gura jul qb crbcyr fnl vg?"

"Orpnhfr gurl ner fcvgrshy."

"Ohg jul qb crbcyr fnl vg?"

Gurer jnf fgvyy n yhexvat fhfcvpvba va uvz. Vs ur jnf abg gur fba bs na
Vgnyvna, jul qvq crbcyr gnyx nobhg uvf cneragf' cnfg, lrnef ntb, ng
Ebzr. Naq, gubhtu ur oryvrirq Cncn abj, gurer jnf fgvyy zhpu fhfcvpvba
va uvz naq ur xrcg ba fnlvat gb uvzfrys:

"Ohg gura jul qb crbcyr fnl vg?..."

Vg gbffrq nobhg va uvf zvaq, gung gurer zhfg or fbzrguvat gung Cncn jnf
xrrcvat onpx. Ohg ur oryvrirq, ur jnagrq gb oryvrir Cncn: lrf, lrf, ur
jnf Cncn'f puvyq. Naq gung jnf uvf terng pbagrag, nsgre gur fbeebj juvpu
ur unq fhssrerq n jubyr qnl ybat: gung ur unq abg ybirq Cncn sbe
abguvat, gung ur jnf gur puvyq bs gur zna jubz ur ybirq....

"Nqqvr!"

Vg jnf Pbafgnapr pnyyvat sebz qbjafgnvef.

"Uhfu!" fnvq Ina qre Jrypxr. "Uhfu, zl obl! Fnl abguvat gb Znzzn, yrg
Znzzn frr abguvat, sbe vg jbhyq pnhfr ure fb zhpu cnva, haarprffnevyl;
naq lbh qb oryvrir zr abj, qba'g lbh? Lbh qb oryvrir zr abj, jura V
nffher lbh gung V pbhyqa'g cbffvoyl, Nqqvr, pbhyqa'g cbffvoyl or fb sbaq
bs lbh ryfr?"

Lrf, ur abj oryvrirq uvf sngure'f jbeq, juvpu ur sryg gb or gur gehgu;
ur oryvrirq, ohg fgvyy, fgvyy gurer jnf fbzrguvat. Ohg ur qvq abg jnag
gb nfx nalguvat zber abj: Cncn uvzfrys jnf gbb zhpu hcfrg; naq gurl unq
gb tb bhg, gb Tenaqznzzn'f, orpnhfr vg jnf Fhaqnl riravat.

"Nqqvr!"

"Tb qbja abj, Nqqvr: Znzzn'f pnyyvat lbh."

Ur jrag bhg ba gur ynaqvat:

"Lrf, Znzzn, jung gvzr vf vg?"

"Vg'f gvzr gb qerff."

"Lrf, V'yy trg qerffrq ng bapr, Znzzn."

Ur orpnzr n yvggyr zna ntnva, juvyr uvf rlrf jrer fgvyy fperjrq hc naq
erq jvgu pelvat.

Ur bapr zber rzoenprq uvf sngure irel gvtugyl:

"Qnqql, Qnqql, V oryvrir lbh!"

"Zl obl, zl obl, zl obl! Tb abj, zl bja obl, tb naq jnfu naq trg
qerffrq; naq qba'g yrg Znzzn abgvpr nalguvat, jvyy lbh?"

Ab, ur jbhyq abg yrg ure frr; naq ur jbhyq unir n tbbq jnfu, va pbyq
jngre, jnfu uvf gueboovat grzcyrf naq uvf fznegvat rlrf.

"Gubfr qnzarq crbcyr! Gubfr qnzarq crbcyr!" fnvq Ina qre Jrypxr, phefvat
naq pyrapuvat uvf svfgf.

Pbafgnapr, qbjafgnvef, ernql qerffrq, jnf jnvgvat sbe gurz, n yvggyr chg
bhg orpnhfr Nqqvr unq pbzr ubzr fb yngr, orpnhfr ur unq sbhtug jvgu
Wnnc, orpnhfr ur unq ershfrq gb rng.

"Urer V nz, Znzzn."

Gurer jnf abguvat gb fubj jung ur unq orra guebhtu: ur ybbxrq serfu naq
frevbhf va uvf arj oyhr fhvg; uvf ibvpr jnf fbsg naq cebcvgvngbel. Ure
snpr yvg hc ng bapr:

"Gryy zr abj, Nqqvr, jul lbh sbhtug jvgu Wnnc."

"Bu, n oblf' dhneery, Znzzn, nobhg abguvat, ernyyl, nobhg abguvat ng
nyy! Wnnc jnf gbezragvat n png; naq V pna'g fgnaq gung. Tvir zr n xvff,
Znzzn."

Ur xvffrq uvf zbgure irel rnearfgyl, rzoenprq ure va uvf pyhgpuvat nezf.
Ur jbhyq unir sbetvira ure rirelguvat, vs vg unq orra ernyyl fb, vs ur
unq orra gur fba bs na Vgnyvna; ohg vg jbhyq unir orra na rireynfgvat
tevrs gb uvz vs ur unq abg orra uvf sngure'f fba....




PUNCGRE KKK


Ina Qre Jrypxr xrcg uvzfrys haqre pbageby gung Fhaqnl riravat sbe Znzzn
ina Ybjr'f fnxr, ohg ur jnf ernyyl fubpxrq ng Nqqvr'f pbaprea naq ol gur
pnyhzavrf gung nccrnerq gb or fgrnyguvyl hggrerq ntnvafg uvz va gur
Unthr; naq, arkg zbeavat, ur jrag gb gur Zvavfgel bs Whfgvpr, nfxrq gb
frr Ina Fnrgmrzn naq, jvgubhg orngvat nobhg gur ohfu, erdhrfgrq uvz gb
chavfu uvf fba Wnnc sbe uvf fcvgrshy fynaqre. Ina Fnrgmrzn, ybfvat uvf
urnq va gur snpr bs Ina qre Jrypxr'f ybsgl naq erfbyhgr gbar, fgnzzrerq
naq fcyhggrerq, fcbxr gb Nqbycuvar jura ur tbg ubzr naq qryrtngrq gur
ohfvarff gb uvf jvsr. Nqbycuvar, vg vf gehr, fpbyqrq Wnnc sbe orvat fb
fghcvq, ohg, va qbvat vg, perngrq na rkpvgrzrag gung ynfgrq sbe qnlf naq
crargengrq gb gur Ina Anturyf, gur Ehliranref, Xnery naq Pngrnh, Treevg
naq Nqryvar, Cnhy naq Qbevar, hagvy rirelobql jnf gnyxvat nobhg vg naq
xarj bs gur vapvqrag, rkprcgvat bayl Znzzn ina Ybjr, jubz gurl nyjnlf
fcnerq, naq Pbafgnapr urefrys. N pbhcyr bs qnlf yngre, Ina qre Jrypxr
fnj Ina Fnrgmrzn ntnva naq nfxrq uvz vs ur unq pbeerpgrq Wnnc; naq, jura
ur creprvirq va Ina Fnrgmrzn'f fcyhggrevat n pregnva inthrarff, n
pregnva vapyvangvba gb nibvq gur cbvag, Ina qre Jrypxr, jub jnf
anghenyyl dhvpx-grzcrerq, syrj vagb n entr naq fnvq ur jbhyq fcrnx gb
Wnnc uvzfrys. Naq, gung fnzr riravat, guerr qnlf nsgre gur Fhaqnl va
dhrfgvba, Ina qre Jrypxr jrag gb gur Ina Fnrgmrznf', jnf irel cbyvgr gb
Nqbycuvar naq ure uhfonaq, ohg gbyq Wnnc, va uvf cneragf' cerfrapr,
gung, vs ur rire qnerq ercrng uvf fynaqrebhf vafvahngvbaf ntnvafg Nqqvr,
ur, uvf Hapyr ina qre Jrypxr, jbhyq tvir uvz n guenfuvat juvpu ur jbhyq
erzrzore nyy gur qnlf bs uvf yvsr. Ina Fnrgmrzn ybfg uvf urnq:
hanpphfgbzrq gb fhpu cynva fcrnxvat, ur fcyhggrerq naq fgnzzrerq,
oyhegvat bhg pbapvyvngbel jbeqf; naq Nqbycuvar gbyq Ina qre Jrypxr gung
fur jnf dhvgr pncnoyr bs chavfuvat ure puvyqera urefrys, vs fur gubhtug
arprffnel. Ina qre Jrypxr, ubjrire, znantrq gb xrrc pbby naq pvivy
gbjneqf gur sngure naq zbgure, ohg ntnva jnearq Wnnc, fb gung ur zvtug
xabj jung gb rkcrpg. Naq gur jubyr snzvyl fbba yrneag gung Ina qre
Jrypxr unq orra gb gur Ina Fnrgmrznf' naq guerngrarq Wnnc; naq nyy gur
zrzoref bs gur snzvyl unq gurve qvssrerag bcvavbaf, nyy rkprcg Znzzn ina
Ybjr, jub jnf abg gbyq, jub jnf nyjnlf fcnerq gur eriryngvba bs nal
hacyrnfnagarff, sebz n fbeg bs erirerapr ba ure puvyqera'f cneg, fb gung
fur ernyyl yvirq naq ervtarq bire gurz va n fbeg bs vyyhfvba bs unezbal
naq pybfr pbzzhavba. Naq Pbafgnapr nyfb jnf abg gbyq, erznvarq tragyl
unccl, tragyl pbagragrq, jvgu gung pnyz, fjrrg fnqarff va ure snpr naq
fbhy juvpu jnf gur ersyrpgvba bs ure zbbqf. Ba gur sbyybjvat Fhaqnl,
ubjrire, zreryl xabjvat gung Nqqvr jnf fgvyy natel jvgu Wnnc, fur fnvq,
ng yhapu:

"Nqqvr, jba'g lbh tb gb gur guerr oblf gb-qnl naq znxr vg hc jvgu Wnnc?"

Ohg Nqqvr tnir n qrpvqrq ershfny:

"V'yy qb nalguvat gb cyrnfr lbh, Znzzn, ohg V'yy arire tb onpx gb gubfr
oblf."

Pbafgnapr ybfg ure grzcre:

"Fb ba nppbhag bs jung lbh lbhefrys pnyy n oblf' dhneery--nobhg n
png--lbh jvfu gb erznva ba onq grezf jvgu gur puvyqera bs lbhe zbgure'f
fvfgre!"

Nqqvr gbbx sevtug: vg jnf gehr, gur pnhfr frrzrq irel haernfbanoyr.

Ohg Ina qre Jrypxr, uvzfrys veevgnoyr haqre gur erfgenvag juvpu ur unq
orra vzcbfvat hcba uvzfrys, fnvq, gerzoyvat nyy bire:

"V qba'g pubbfr, Pbafgnapr, gung Nqqvr fubhyq pbagvahr gb tb nobhg jvgu
gubfr oblf."

Uvf qrgrezvarq znaare oebhtug ure grzcre frrguvat hc; naq nyy ure tragyr
pnyzarff inavfurq:

"Naq V pubbfr," fur rkpynvzrq, "gung Nqqvr fubhyq znxr sevraqf jvgu
gurz!"

"Znzzn, V pna'g, ernyyl!"

"Pbafgnapr, vg'f vzcbffvoyr."

Gubhtu fur jnf dhvirevat va nyy ure areirf, gurer jnf fbzrguvat va gur
znavsrfg qrgrezvangvba bs gurz obgu gung pnyzrq ure. Ohg fur terj
fhfcvpvbhf:

"Gryy zr jul lbh dhneeryyrq. Vs lbh pna'g znxr vg hc, gura vg jnfa'g
nobhg n png."

"Yrg hf svefg unir bhe yhapu va crnpr, vs cbffvoyr," fnvq Ina qre
Jrypxr. "V'yy gryy lbh rirelguvat cerfragyl, ng yrnfg vs lbh pna or
pnyz."

Ur ernyvmrq gung ur pbhyq ab ybatre xrrc ure va vtabenapr. Fur pbyyrpgrq
nyy ure fgeratgu bs zvaq gb erznva pbby. Nsgre yhapu, jura fur jnf nybar
jvgu ure uhfonaq, fur fnvq:

"Abj gryy zr jung vg vf nyy nobhg."

"Ba bar pbaqvgvba, gung lbh xrrc pnyz. V jnag gb nibvq n fprar vs V
cbffvoyl pna, vs bayl sbe gur fnxr bs bhe obl, jub unf orra irel
haunccl."

"V nz dhvgr pnyz. Gryy zr jung vg vf. Jul unf ur orra haunccl?"

Ur abj gbyq ure. Fur xrcg pnyz. Fur svefg gevrq gb tybff guvatf bire, va
n fcvevg bs pbagenqvpgvba; ohg fur jnf birepbzr jvgu n qrrc frafr bs
qrcerffvba jura fur gubhtug bs ure obl naq uvf gebhoyr. Sbe bar
gbeghevat zbzrag, fur qbhogrq jurgure fur unq abg orra irel jebat gb
erghea gb ure angvir ynaq, gb ure angvir gbja, va gur zvqfg bs nyy ure
eryngvbaf. Ohg fur zreryl fnvq:

"Fynaqre ... gung nccrnef gb or crbcyr'f bpphcngvba rireljurer...."

Abj gung fur frrzrq pnyz, ur erfbyirq gb gryy ure rirelguvat naq fnvq
gung ur unq orra gb gur Ina Fnrgmrznf naq guerngrarq Wnnc.

Ure grzcre jnf ebhfrq, sbe n zbzrag, ohg fhofvqrq ntnva va gur cebsbhaq
qrcerffvba gung vzzrqvngryl yrsg ure ahzo naq qvfurnegrarq. Gur
gbeghevat cnva sbyybjrq ntnva naq gur qbhog jurgure fur unq abg orra
dhvgr jebat....

Ohg fur qvq abg tvir hggrenapr gb gur qbhog naq fvzcyl jrag gb gur
"gheerg-ebbz," jurer ure obl jnf:

"Ner lbh tbvat bhg, Nqqvr?" fur nfxrq, inthryl, pnyz nzvq ure
qrcerffvba.

"Yrg'f tb bhg gbtrgure, Znzzn," ur fnvq.

Fur fzvyrq, tynq gung ur jnf tvivat ure guvf Fhaqnl nsgreabba jvgu gung
whfgvpr jvgu juvpu ur qvivqrq uvf snibhef. Fur fgbbq va sebag bs uvz,
jvgu oynax rlrf gb juvpu gur grnef abj fgbyr, ohg jvgu gur fzvyr fgvyy
cynlvat nobhg ure zbhgu.

"Funyy jr, Znzzn?"

Fur abqqrq lrf. Gura fur xaryg qbja orfvqr ure obl, jurer ur fng jvgu
uvf obbx va uvf unaqf, naq vg jnf nf gubhtu fur jrer znxvat urefrys irel
fznyy, nf gubhtu fur jrer fuevaxvat; naq fur ynvq ure urnq ba uvf yvggyr
xarrf naq chg bar nez ebhaq uvz. Fur jrcg irel fbsgyl vagb uvf ync.

"Pbzr, Zhzzl, jung'f gur znggre?"

Fur abj xarj jung ur unq fhssrerq, n fbeebj nyzbfg gbb terng sbe bar bs
uvf lrnef gb orne. Fur nyzbfg jvfurq gb ort uvf cneqba, ohg qnerq abg.
Fur bayl fnvq:

"Nqqvr, lbh qvq oryvrir Cncn, qvqa'g lbh?"

"Lrf."

"Naq lbh oryvrir zr gbb, jura V fnl gung vg'f abg gehr jung crbcyr
fnl?..."

"Lrf, V oryvrir lbh."

Ur oryvrirq ure; naq lrg n fhfcvpvba yvatrerq va uvf zvaq. Gurer jnf
fbzrguvat, rira gubhtu gung cnegvphyne guvat jnf abg gehr. Gurer jnf
fbzrguvat. Ohg ur qvq abg nfx jung vg jnf, bhg bs erfcrpg sbe gubfr cnfg
lrnef, gur lrnef gung jrer uvf cneragf' bja.

"Zl puvyq!" fur fboorq, jvgu ure urnq fgvyy va uvf ync. "Gryy zr, unf zl
obl orra irel haunccl?"

Ur whfg abqqrq, gb fnl lrf, naq cerffrq ure gb uvz, yvsgrq ure hc, gbbx
ure pybfr gb uvz ba uvf xarrf, jvgu gur pnerff bs na rzoelb zna. Fur
pybfrq ure rlrf ba ure fba'f oernfg. Fur sryg fb jrnel jvgu ure
qrcerffvba gung fur pbhyq unir erznvarq ylvat gurer. Vg jnf nf gubhtu
gur vyyhfvba jnf ortvaavat gb pehzoyr gb cvrprf, yvxr n qrne ubhfr bs
flzcngul sebz juvpu flzcngul unq fubja vgfrys gb or nofrag.

"Qba'g yrg Tenaqznzzn abgvpr nalguvat," fur fnvq, fbsgyl.

Ur cebzvfrq.

Fur jnagrq gb yrnir gur byq jbzna ure unccvarff va ure vyyhfvba, gur
vyyhfvba bs gung qrne ubhfr bs flzcngul. Ure bja vyyhfvba jnf pehzoyvat.
Naq lrg fur gubhtug gung fur jnf rknttrengvat, znxvat gbb zhpu bs vg,
orpnhfr n jergpurq obl unq tvira ure puvyq cnva:

"Gung'f ab ernfba jul gurl fubhyq nyy or yvxr gung," fur gubhtug.

Naq fur bapr zber fhzzbarq gb ure zvaq gur vyyhfvba bs gung terng, qrne
ubhfr bs flzcngul sbe juvpu fur unq lrnearq va ure ybaryl rkvyr.

"Pbzr, Znzzn, yrg'f tb bhg."

Fur eryrnfrq uvz fybjyl, fzvyrq guebhtu ure grnef, nf fur ebfr sebz uvf
ync naq jrag gb punatr ure guvatf:

"Ubj fznyy jr nyy ner!" fur gubhtug. "Jung fznyy perngherf jr ner naq
jung fznyy fbhyf jr unir Vf gung yvsr? Be vf gurer fbzrguvat qvssrerag?"




PUNCGRE KKKV


Gur obl unq tebja frevbhf. Sbe gung yvggyr vapvqrag ercerfragrq zber gb
uvz guna n dhneery jvgu n pbhfva nobhg n jbeq bs nohfr: vg unq fhqqrayl
bcrarq n jvaqbj gb uvz, jub jnf nyernql abar gbb lbhat sbe uvf lrnef,
tvira uvz n ivrj vagb gur crbcyr nebhaq uvz, gur ovt, byqre, tebja-hc,
frevbhf crbcyr, gur crbcyr gb jubz ur jbhyq orybat yngre, jura ur gbb
jnf ovt naq byq naq tebja-hc; naq, ng gur fnzr gvzr, vg unq tvira uvz
uvf svefg terng fbeebj. Gur obl unq tebja zber frevbhf, zber frevbhf
guna ur nyernql jnf, abj gung ur unq qvfphffrq vg pnyzyl jvgu Senaf ina
Antury naq gbyq uvz gung ur unq nfxrq uvf sngure nobhg vg naq gung gur
avpxanzr jnf n cher fynaqre. Naq gur qryvpngr oybbz ba uvf puvyq-fbhy,
juvpu jnf yvxr gur fbhy bs n yvggyr zna, jnf abg bayl bssraqrq ol gung
fynaqre naq fbvyrq ol vg naq cebsnarq, ohg gung syrqtyvat zna'f fbhy,
jvgu vgf qbjal serfuarff, jnf fgnegyrq naq nfgbavfurq naq fubpxrq naq
qvq abg haqrefgnaq jul gur crbcyr nebhaq uvz hggrerq fynaqref, gur
crbcyr sbe jubz Znzzn unq ybatrq orpnhfr fur zvffrq gurz fb va ure
ybaryvarff naq orpnhfr fur jnf svyyrq jvgu gung fgenatr srryvat, gung
cnffvba sbe ure snzvyl. Jul, jul qvq crbcyr fynaqre? Jul qvq gurl fcrnx
rivy? Sbe ur abj sryg gung gurl nyy xarj gung avpxanzr naq creuncf nyy
oryvrirq gung fynaqre n yvggyr, vanfzhpu nf gurl nyy fynaqrerq. Jung qvq
vg orarsvg gurz, jung qvq gurl tnva ol vg, jung tbbq qvq vg qb gurz gb
fynaqre sbe fynaqre'f fnxr? Naq gur fhfcvpvba yvatrerq; sbe, vs vg jnf
abg gehr, jung gurl fnvq nobhg uvf sngure naq zbgure, jung jnf vg gung
jnf gehr? Ur sryg gung gurer jnf fbzrguvat va gurve cnfg, fbzrguvat gung
unq arire ragveryl qvfnccrnerq, fbzrguvat gung fgvyy rzovggrerq gur
rkvfgrapr bs obgu bs gurz, fbzrguvat gung jnf creuncf gur pnhfr bs gurve
veerpbapvynoyr qvfpbeq.

Naq gur obl sryg guvf fb qrrcyl, va gur frevbhfarff gung unq pbzr jvgu
uvf arj-sbhaq xabjyrqtr, gung bapr, jura ur jnf nybar jvgu uvf sngure,
ur pyvzorq ba uvf xarrf naq fvzcyl nfxrq uvz gb gryy uvz jung vg jnf. Ur
jnf n puvyq, sbe ur fgvyy fng ba uvf sngure'f xarr, naq lrg ur jnf
nyernql n fgheql obl, gubhtu fubeg sbe uvf lrnef; naq, ubjrire frevbhf
ur zvtug or, ur fgvyy unq gur fbsg oybbz bs uvf puvyqubbq ba uvf purrxf
naq ba uvf fbhy. Gehr, uvf sngure jnf ortvaavat gb nfx:

"Nera'g lbh gbb ovt, zl obl, gb fvg ba lbhe sngure'f xarr?"

Ohg ur uvzfrys qvq abg guvax gung ur jnf gbb ovt lrg. Frevbhfarff naq
rkgerzr puvyqvfuarff, znaubbq naq oblubbq jrer zvatyrq va uvz; naq,
gubhtu ur jnf n yvggyr zna, ur jnf nyfb fgvyy n obl; gubhtu ur jnf
frevbhf, ur fgvyy erznvarq n puvyq.

Ur fng ba uvf sngure'f xarrf naq nfxrq uvz, teniryl, gb gryy uvz jung
jnf gehr, vs gur fynaqref juvpu crbcyr fcbxr jrer abg gehr; sbe ur sryg
gung gurer jnf fbzrguvat. Naq ur ernq va uvf sngure'f rlrf gung ur zhfg
abg nfx; naq uvf sngure nafjrerq gung ur jnf fgvyy gbb lbhat sbe uvf
sngure gb qvfphff rirelguvat jvgu uvz. Gura ur sryy fvyrag, qvq abg
vafvfg; ohg gur fhfcvpvba arire yrsg uvz naq ur abj xarj sbe pregnva
gung gurer jnf fbzrguvat, orpnhfr uvf sngure unq gbyq uvz gung ur jnf
gbb lbhat gb qvfphff guvatf jvgu uvz. Naq fb gur obl orpnzr frevbhf;
naq, jura Ina qre Jrypxr pnzr ubzr gb qvaare sebz gur pyho, ur ab ybatre
sbhaq uvf purreshy Nqqvr, jub pbhyq gnyx fb oevtugyl naq svyy hc gur tnc
orgjrra uvz naq Pbafgnapr jvgu uvf cyrnfnag, oblvfu gnyx. Gur obl fng va
fvyrapr, ngr va fvyrapr, jvgu uvf lbhat fbhy shyy bs fhfcvpvba, shyy bs
fvyrag dhrfgvbavatf nf gb jung vg ernyyl jnf, vs gur fynaqref juvpu
crbcyr hggrerq jrer abg gehr. Ur ybirq gurz fb sbaqyl, jvgu gung ybir bs
uvf; naq vg znqr uvz cebsbhaqyl fnq gung ur qvq abg xabj gung guvat bs
gur cnfg, orpnhfr, sbe jnag bs gung xabjyrqtr, ur jnf ab ybatre yvivat
gurve yvsr. Ur abj jvfurq gung ur jnf byqre, fb nf gb or noyr gb yvir
gurve yvsr naq unir gur evtug gb xabj. Naq ur jrvturq jung ur qvq xabj
va uvf fbhy gung ybatrq sbe pregnvagvrf: ur xarj gung Znzzn unq orra
zneevrq orsber naq jnf qvibeprq sebz gur uhfonaq jubz fur arire
zragvbarq. Unq vg orra gung svefg uhfonaq'f snhyg? Be unq fur znqr uvz
haunccl? Nqqvr qvq abg xabj naq jnf penivat gb xabj. Naq uvf ybatvat jnf
ab zbeovq phevbfvgl, ohg gur erfhyg bs uvf haangheny hcoevatvat: uvf
ybatvat unq pbzr nobhg dhvgr anghenyyl, nsgre uvf svefg terng fbeebj,
orpnhfr uvf sngure naq zbgure unq obgu nyjnlf ybbxrq hcba uvz nf nyzbfg
zber guna gurve puvyq, nf gurve pbzenqr, nf gurve pbafbyngvba, nf gurve
cnffvba, gb jubz nyy gur pheerag bs obgu gurve urnegf jrag bhg. Gung
Pbafgnapr fubhyq unir fboorq va uvf ync, gung Ina qre Jrypxr fubhyq
jbefuvc uvz nf uvf jnezrfg sevraq--uvz, gurve obl, gurve yvggyr fba--unq
znqr uvf frevbhf fbhy fgvyy zber frevbhf naq nf qrrc nf n fznyy, pyrne
ynxr; naq vg pbhyq abg or ohg gung, nsgre gur svefg fubpx naq gur svefg
fbeebj, dhrfgvbaf naq ybatvatf fubhyq nevfr va uvz gung nf lrg znqr ab
nccrny gb bgure puvyqera. Uvf angher jnf urnygul, gur angher bs n
urnygul puvyq'f fbhy, jryy naq crnprshyyl onynaprq va vgf rneyl, fgheql
znayvarff; ohg uvf rkvfgrapr orgjrra uvf gjb cneragf--vg pbhyq abg or
pnyyrq na hcoevatvat--unq jbexrq ba uvf areirf gb gur rkgrag bs abj
znxvat uvz dhvire jvgu gur jvfu gb xabj.

Gubfr jrer tybbzl zrnyf; naq Pbafgnapr nfxrq Ina qre Jrypxr jul Nqqvr
jnf fb tybbzl, fb qvssrerag sebz jung ur unq orra. Abj gung gur obl jnf
tybbzl, jvgu gung arj, fgenatr naq frevbhf tybbzvarff, gurl obgu fbhtug
rnpu bgure zber guna gurl unq qbar, gnyxrq gb rnpu bgure, pnyzyl,
jvgubhg natel fprarf. Abj gung gur puvyq jnf fgvyy fhssrevat, gurl obgu,
gbtrgure, fbhtug sbe n fbyhgvba, ubj gb fgbc uvf fhssrevat. Naq,
urycyrff va gur zvqfg bs guvf ragveryl arj pbasvqrapr, gurl ybbxrq ng
rnpu bgure nf gubhtu va qrfcnve, orpnhfr gurl gubhtug gur fbyhgvba gbb
greevoyr. Gur puvyq jnagrq gb xabj; naq gurl, obgu bs gurz, jbhyq or
pbzcryyrq--gb fgbc uvf fhssrevat, be, creuncf, vapernfr vg naq srry uvf
tebjvat pbagrzcg naq oynzr cerffvat hcba gurz--obgu bs gurz jbhyq or
pbzcryyrq gb fcrnx bs gur lrnef cnfg, bs gur tvtnagvp zvfgnxr bs gurve
yvirf, gur zvfgnxr juvpu unq tvira uvz, gurve puvyq, uvf yvsr! Bu, ubj
gurl sryg vg, obgu bs gurz, gung cnfg juvpu arire qvrq, fhax va n
obggbzyrff cvg, ohg nyjnlf unhagrq gurz, unhagvat gurz zber frevbhfyl,
zber zranpvatyl abj gung Nqqvr jnf tebjvat byqre naq unq orra haunccl
naq jnagrq gb xabj! Bu, ubj urycyrff gurl obgu sryg, juvyr gurl fgnerq
ng rnpu bgure va qrfcnve orpnhfr gurl qvq abg xabj ubj gb fcner gurve
qneyvat, ubj gb fcner uvz, rira gubhtu gurl jbhyq fcner uvz gb-qnl,
ubj--ubj vaqrrq?--gb fcner uvz gb-zbeebj! Naq, orpnhfr gurve fbeebj jnf
gur fnzr, gur fnzr fbeebj sbe gurve qneyvat, sbe gurve pbzenqr, gurve
pbafbyngvba, gurve cnffvba, vg jnf nf gubhtu, sbe gur svefg gvzr, nsgre
lrnef naq lrnef, gurl jrer arnevat rnpu bgure naq sbe gur svefg gvzr
ornevat gbtrgure n cneg bs gur urnil oheqra bs yvsr gung cerffrq hcba
gurve fznyy fbhyf. Ubj jrer gurl gb fcner uvz, ubj jrer gurl gb fcner
uvz?

Svaqvat ab fbyhgvba, gurl rnpu jrag gurve bja jnl ntnva, gurve rlrf
fgvyy oynax jvgu urycyrffarff, gurve urnegf urnil jvgu qrfcnve. Jung unq
orpbzr bs gur zrynapubyl pbagragzrag gung unq oebhtug Pbafgnapr ure
tragyr unccvarff? Naq, jura gurl zrg ntnva ng zrnyf naq gur obl, gur
frafvoyr, zreel yvggyr pbzenqr bs byq, jub unq nyjnlf rayvirarq gubfr
zrny-gvzrf, fng va fvyrapr, ngr va fvyrapr, jvgu uvf frevbhf obl'f snpr,
svez va bhgyvar nyernql naq lrg jvgu gur fbsg oybbz bs gur puvyq hcba
vg, naq uvf fgrry-oyhr rlrf shyy bs gubhtug, gura gurl jbhyq gvzvqyl
fgner ng rnpu bgure ntnva naq gur fnzr qvfpbhentrzrag jbhyq fraq vgf pel
bs qrfcnve sebz bhg bs gurve gvzvq tynapr. Guvf jnf ab ybatre gb or
raqherq, guvf znqr gurz obgu fhssre birezhpu, guvf jbhyq unir pbfg gurz
gurve yvirf naq gur tenpr bs gurve yvirf, guvf gurl pbhyq ab ybatre
snpr, guvf znqr gurz srry zber urycyrff sebz qnl gb qnl.

Gubhtu gurl obgu bs gurz, frcnengryl, gbbx uvz va gurve nezf, ur ab
ybatre fnvq n jbeq, npprcgrq gur snpg gung ur jnf gbb lbhat gb xabj jung
jnf ernyyl gehr, vs gur fynaqre jnf abg gehr; ohg arvgure uvf snpr abe
uvf fbhy oevtugrarq naq gur qrrcravat bs uvf tybbz jnf gur zrnfher bs
gurve qrfcnve.

"Jung ner jr gb qb?" gubhtug Pbafgnapr. "Jung ner jr gb qb?" fur nfxrq
Ina qre Jrypxr.

Naq fur jehat ure unaqf, srryvat gung gur cnfg jnf abj qbbzrq gb erznva
sbe rire naq gung gb guvax nalguvat ryfr jnf gb vaivgr qvfvyyhfvba. Bu,
gur cnfg, juvpu abg bayl erznvarq, juvpu abg bayl jbhyq pyvat gb gurz
sbe rire, ohg juvpu terj, terj jvgu gur puvyq, nf gubhtu gur fbeebj bs
gung cnfg jbhyq nyjnlf oybffbz narj, ntnva naq ntnva, jvgu creraavny
tevrs naq jbr! Bu, gur vaqrfgehpgvoyr fbeebj, juvpu nyjnlf pnzr onpx gb
unhag gurz, rira gubhtu vg frrzrq gb unir qvrq, fhax va n obggbzyrff
cvg, gur nolff bs cnfg lrnef! Hagvy, ng ynfg, nf va n pel sbe uryc va
gur urycyrffarff gung cerffrq naq ober hcba ure zber svrepryl sebz qnl
gb qnl, pyhgpuvat ng ure guebng, varkbenoyl qrznaqvat n qrpvfvba, fur
znqr gung qrpvfvba naq jnvyrq:

"Gryy uvz! Gryy uvz! Gryy uvz!"

Naq, nf fur hggrerq gung jnvy, ur fnj ure fb cebfgengr haqre gur
qrpvfvba gung jbhyq oevat qbja hcba ure gur fpbea, gur entr creuncf, bs
gurve puvyq, bs gurve fba, gur qrngu--B Urnira!--bs uvf ybir, vs ur bapr
xarj naq, nobir nyy, ernyvmrq gur gehgu, gung ur, ure uhfonaq, sryg cvgl
sbe gur jbzna jub unq ghearq uvf yvsr vagb n ybat naq qernel shgvyvgl;
naq ur fnvq:

"V jvyy gryy uvz, V jvyy gryy uvz. Ohg unir ab srne: vs ur qbrf
haqrefgnaq naq ernyvmr vg, ur jvyy ybir lbh abar gur yrff sbe vg,
Pbafgnapr!"

Fur ybbxrq ng uvz, srryvat gung ur ab ybatre tehqtrq ure gurve puvyq'f
ybir, gung ur jnf abg nf wrnybhf nf fur. Naq, sbe n zbzrag, fur gubhtug
bs guebjvat urefrys ba uvf oernfg naq fboovat bhg gur nathvfu juvpu fur
sryg cerffvat zber naq zber hcba ure, sryg pbzvat gbjneqf ure yvxr n
zbafgre ybbzvat bhg bs gur shgher. Ohg gur rzbgvba ghttvat ng ure
urneg-fgevatf jnf qenja onpx ivbyragyl; naq fur jrag njnl naq syhat
urefrys ba gur sybbe va ure orqebbz naq uvppbhturq ure qrfcnve ...
orpnhfr ure fba jnf tbvat gb or gbyq!




PUNCGRE KKKVV


Ohg ur qvq abg gryy uvz gung qnl. Ur zreryl crefhnqrq uvzfrys gung vg
jnf abg arprffnel, gung vg jbhyq rira or jebat gb gryy uvf fba, uvf
puvyq, jub jnf fgvyy fb lbhat, gur cnfg bs gurve yvirf, gung juvpu ur
jbhyq urne bs uvzfrys naq xabj naq haqrefgnaq jura ur jnf n lrne be gjb
byqre. Naq ba gur sbyybjvat qnlf nyfb, urfvgngvat, Ina qre Jrypxr qvq
abg gryy uvz. Ohg gur tybbzl zrnyf pbagvahrq, Pbafgnapr' svgf bs
urycyrffarff pbagvahrq; naq fur bapr ntnva rkpynvzrq:

"Bu, gryy uvz! Qb gryy uvz!"

Naq gurl obgu sryg fb haunccl, orpnhfr gurl jrer ybfvat gurve puvyq zber
naq zber rirel qnl, gung ur qrgrezvarq gb gryy Nqqvr. Ur urfvgngrq hagvy
gur ynfg zbzrag, jnirevat, fgehttyvat jvguva uvzfrys, abg xabjvat jung
jbhyq or evtug, jung jebat, xabjvat bayl gung ur jnf fhssrevat orlbaq
raqhenapr. Gura, bar riravat, ur ybbxrq hc uvf puvyq va gur
"gheerg-ebbz:"

"Nqqvr, funyy V or va lbhe jnl vs V fvg urer?"

"Ab, Cncn."

Gur obl jnf qbvat uvf ubzr-jbex. Ina qre Jrypxr fng qbja. Ur ersyrpgrq
gung ur jbhyq engure gryy uvz fbzr bgure qnl, jura Nqqvr jnf abg
jbexvat. Gur puvyq jbexrq ba, fvyragyl, tybbzvyl, tevzyl. Naq Ina qre
Jrypxr fhqqrayl rkpynvzrq:

"Nqqvr!"

"Lrf, Cncn?"

"Pbzr urer sbe n zvahgr."

Gur obl fgbbq hc naq jrag gb uvz.

"Gryy zr, jul unir lbh orra fb tybbzl yngryl, zl obl?"

"V'z abg tybbzl, Qnqql."

"Lbh uneqyl fcrnx gb zr be lbhe zbgure. Naq vg'f abg yvxr lbh, gb fhyx.
Ner lbh natel jvgu hf?"

"Ab, Qnqql."

"Nera'g lbh natel jvgu hf?"

"Ab, Qnqql: jung fubhyq V or natel sbe?"

"Gura or nf lbh hfrq gb or, Nqqvr. Jura lbh'er abg purreshy, rirelguvat
va gur ubhfr vf fb fnq."

Gur obl fzvyrq.

"V'yy gel, Qnqql."

"Ohg jul gel? Whfg or vg, or vg!"

Ab, Ina qre Jrypxr jbhyq abg, pbhyq abg gryy uvz.

"V'yy gel, Qnqql."

Naq ur zbirq gb tb onpx gb uvf obbxf.

"Nqqvr!"

"Jung vf vg, Cncn?"

"Pbzr urer, pbzr gb zr."

"V unir zl jbex gb qb."

"Pbzr nybat, V jnag lbh."

Gur obl pnzr.

"Pbzr gb zr, urer, ba zl ync. Creuncf vg vf gur ynfg gvzr, Nqqvr, gung V
funyy gnxr lbh ba zl xarr. Lbh ner zl yvggyr obl fgvyy; naq cerfragyl,
cerfragyl creuncf lbh jvyy or n ovt fba gb zr, jvgu jubz V funyy qvfphff
guvatf ... naq jub jvyy ab ybatre fvg ba zl ync."

Ur fng qbja ba uvf sngure'f xarr:

"Jung vf vg?" ur nfxrq, dhvrgyl, frafvoyl.

"V nz tbvat gb gryy lbh, Nqqvr."

Gur puvyq haqrefgbbq:

"Ab, qba'g gryy zr," ur fnvq. "V nz abg vadhvfvgvir. Naq V nz gbb lbhat,
creuncf, gb xabj. Vg qbrfa'g znggre. V qner fnl V funyy xabj, yngre ba.
Sbe gur cerfrag, V'z whfg lbhe yvggyr obl."

Ur arfgyrq ntnvafg uvf sngure, va uvf nez:

"Vg'f fb wbyyl, fvggvat jvgu lbh yvxr guvf. Hapyr Cnhy nyjnlf fnlf, jura
ur frrf hf ovplpyvat, gung jr ner whfg yvxr puhzf, ohg ur unf arire frra
hf yvxr guvf."

Fubhyq ur gryy uvz? gubhtug Ina qre Jrypxr. Fubhyq ur abg gryy uvz? Vs
ur gbyq uvz, guvf jbhyq or gur ynfg gvzr gung ur jbhyq gnxr uvf fba ba
uvf xarrf.

"V unq znqr hc zl zvaq gb gryy lbh, Nqqvr."

"Ab, qba'g."

Ur qvq abg gryy uvz gung riravat. Naq gur obl gevrq gb or nf ur hfrq gb,
rfcrpvnyyl ng zrnyf, ohg ur jnf abg irel fhpprffshy; uvf purreshyarff
fbhaqrq sbeprq. Gura, gjb riravatf yngre, Ina qre Jrypxr fnvq:

"Pbzr urer, Nqqvr. Pbzr naq fvg ba zl ync."

Naq gung jnf gur ynfg gvzr.

"Yvfgra, V jnag gb gryy lbh nyy nobhg vg. Jura lbh xabj, creuncf lbh
jvyy srry n yvggyr byqre guna lbh qb abj; ohg, jura lbh xabj, lbh jvyy
or zl puvyq ntnva, zl fba, jba'g lbh? Zl fba, lrf, jub vf orpbzvat n
zna, ohg fgvyy zl fba, zl sevraq nf nyjnlf. V'yy gryy lbh abj. Vg'f
orggre gung V fubhyq gryy lbh...."

Gura ur gbyq uvz, irel fvzcyl....

Naq vg jnf irel rnfl, irel fvzcyr gb gryy Nqqvr, va dhvrg jbeqf. Ur gbyq
uvf obl gung ur unq snyyra va ybir jvgu Znzzn jura fur jnf gur jvsr bs
nabgure naq gung ur unq fgbyra Znzzn'f ybir, fgbyra vg sebz gung bgure
zna. Ur gbyq gur fgbel fb uhzoyl, fb dhvrgyl naq fvzcyl nf gubhtu vg
zrnag abguvat, znxvat guvf pbasrffvba gb uvf puvyq, naq nf gubhtu ur
jrer cbhevat bhg nyy uvf fhssrevatf bs gur byq qnlf vagb gur urneg bs n
sevraq. Gurl fng gnyxvat sbe n ybat gvzr; naq vg qvq gurz obgu tbbq.
Gura fnvq Ina qre Jrypxr:

"Nqqvr, tb gb Znzzn abj. Fur urefrys nfxrq zr gb gryy lbh rirelguvat. Tb
gb ure abj naq tvir ure n xvff."

Gur obl xvffrq uvz svefg, rzoenprq uvz jvgu guebggyvat nezf, jvgu gur
tevc bs n sevraq'f rzoenpr. Gura ur jrag bhg; naq Ina qre Jrypxr,
dhvrgyl fzbxvat, yvfgrarq gb uvf sbbgfgrcf ba gur fgnvef. Ohg gura Ina
qre Jrypxr fgnegrq, jvgu n fubpx, ersyrpgrq:

"Jung unir V qbar? B zl Tbq, ab, ab, ab V bhtug abg gb unir gbyq
uvz...."

Ohg gur ubhfr erznvarq irel dhvrg. Pbafgnapr jnf fvggvat nybar, va ure
obhqbve. Ure urnq jnf orag haqre gur yvtug bs gur ynzc, bire ure
arrqyr-jbex, naq ure unve, punatvat fb tragyl gb vgf pybhql terl, pheyrq
graqreyl nobhg gur qryvpngr biny bs ure fgvyy lbhgushy snpr. Gurer jnf n
fbeg bs tragyr, erfvtarq crnpr va ure nggvghqr, jvgu zhpu crafvirarff
naq fnqarff. Jura Nqqvr bcrarq gur qbbe, ur fgbbq fgvyy naq fur qvq abg
ybbx hc, guvaxvat gung vg jnf Ina qre Jrypxr. Gura ur jrag gb uvf
zbgure....

Fur ybbxrq hc, fgnegyrq:

"Vf gung lbh?"

"Lrf, Znzzn."

Fur ybbxrq hc ng uvz; naq fhqqrayl vg synfurq npebff ure gung ur
xarj....

"Cncn unf orra fcrnxvat gb zr, Znzzn...."

Fur tnir n ivbyrag fgneg, nf gubhtu fur unq unq na ryrpgevp fubpx; ure
rlrf pybfrq, ure urnq sryy onpx, ure unaqf sryy fynpxyl va ure ync:

"B Tbq!" fur gubhtug. "Ab, bu, ab, ur bhtug abg gb unir gbyq uvz!..."

Ur xaryg orsber uvf zbgure naq cnffrq uvf svatref fbsgyl bire ure snpr
naq tragyl bcrarq ure rlrf. Fur ybbxrq ng uvz, jvgu n cnyr, greevsvrq,
fubpxrq snpr naq fgnevat rlrf naq qvfgbegrq zbhgu. Fur fnj uvf bja
serfu, fbsg puvyq'f snpr, fzvyvat sevraqyl....

"V xabj gur gehgu abj, Znzzn," ur fnvq, "naq, vs crbcyr fynaqre zr abj,
V pna orne vg...."

Fur guerj ure nezf nebhaq uvz, qebccrq ure urnq hcba uvf oernfg. Fur
sryg uvz va gung rzoenpr tebja byqre, ovttre, fgebatre, abj dhvgr n zna.
Fur abj sryg n cebgrpgbe va uvz. Ohg fur jnf nfunzrq naq ntnva pybfrq
ure rlrf:

"Zl obl!" fur zhezherq. "Qb lbh ybir lbhe zbgure?..."

"Lrf, Znzzn."

Ure snpr terj pnyzre, ohg ure rlrf erznvarq fuhg.

"Zl qneyvat!" fur juvfcrerq, nyzbfg vanhqvoyl, jvgu pybfrq rlrf. "Gunax
lbh. Gunax lbh. Ohg yrnir zr gb zlfrys abj...."

Ur xvffrq ure, jvgu uvf znayl graqrearff, naq gura jrag bhg naq fuhg gur
qbbe. Fur bcrarq ure rlrf, ybbxrq ebhaq gur ebbz. Ohg vg jnf nf gubhtu
fur jnf nfunzrq orsber rirelguvat, orsber gur jnyyf bs gur ebbz naq gur
sheavgher nebhaq ure; sbe fur abj pybfrq ure rlrf ntnva naq uvq ure snpr
va ure unaqf.

Naq fur fng yvxr gung sbe ybat, nf gubhtu ybfg va gunaxftvivat sbe gur
zrepl ibhpufnsrq ure ol yvsr....

Ohg, orgjrra gur gjb bs gurz, gur obl abj oevtugrarq, fgebat va gur
cbjre bs gehgu naq pregnvagl, rira gubhtu jvaqbj nsgre jvaqbj unq bcrarq
orsber uvz, tvivat uvz n tyvzcfr vagb gur jbeyq. Orgjrra gur gjb bs
gurz, ur erpbirerq uvf sbezre frys, uvf sbezre ibvpr, uvf puvyqvfu
grzcref rira, orpnzr bapr zber gur pbafbyngvba naq gur nvz bs gurve gjb
rkvfgraprf. Fur jrag sbe jnyxf ba uvf nez; ur jrag ovplpyvat jvgu uvz
sbe ybat qvfgnaprf, shyy bs nve naq fcnpr. Gur ubhfr erfbhaqrq jvgu uvf
lbhat, frevbhf, ab ybatre geroyr ibvpr. Jura fur ybbxrq ng uvz, ubjrire,
fur gubhtug gung ur unq tebja, unq orpbzr oebnqre; gung gur funcr bs uvf
urnq, gur pheir bs uvf purrxf jrer ybfvat gur puvyqvfu fbsgarff gung
fgvyy orybatrq gb uvf lrnef....

Naq, jura Ina qre Jrypxr sryg oberq va uvf fzbxvat-ebbz naq jrag naq fng
jvgu Nqqvr va gur "gheerg," nyjnlf svefg chapgvyvbhfyl nfxvat uvf fba vs
ur jnf vagreehcgvat uvz va uvf jbex, ur ab ybatre gbbx uvz ba uvf
xarr....




PUNCGRE KKKVVV


Vg jnf bar zbeavat qhevat gur fhzzre ubyvqnlf gung byq Ze. ina qre
Jrypxr fnvq gb uvf jvsr:

"Jul abg nfx gur yvggyr obl gb pbzr naq fgnl jvgu hf?"

Gurer jnf arire zhpu fnvq orgjrra gur byq crbcyr, ohg rnpu haqrefgbbq
jvgubhg jbeqf, be sebz n fvatyr jbeq, gur gubhtug gung jnf cnffvat va
gur bgure'f zvaq.

Abg hagvy gur riravat qvq gur byq ynql nfx:

"Gur yvggyr obl nybar?"

"Lrf, nybar ... be jvgu Uraev."

Gjb qnlf nsgre gung, fur fhttrfgrq:

"Bhtuga'g jr gb vaivgr gurz, nyy guerr, va gung pnfr? Pbafgnapr nf
jryy?"

Gur byq zna fnvq abguvat naq jrag ba ernqvat, nf gubhtu ur unq abg
urneq; naq uvf jvsr qvq abg cerff sbe na nafjre. Ohg, ng avtugsnyy, jura
gurl fng fgnevat ng gur qnex fhzzre riravat bhgfvqr, byq Ze. ina qre
Jrypxr fnvq:

"Ab, V qba'g yvxr ure. Yrg hf nfx Uraev naq Nqevnna."

Fur fnvq abguvat. Fur jnf hfrq gb borlvat ure uhfonaq'f jvfurf; naq fur
unq oebhtug hc Uraev nyfb, ybat ntb, gb borl uvf cneragf' jvfurf. Naq
Uraev unq borqvragyl tvira hc uvf yvsr, tvira hc uvzfrys, ng gurve
pbzznaq, gb gung jbzna. Juvpu bs gur gjb jnf zber gb oynzr, jurgure ur
unq orra gur grzcgre be fur gur grzcgerff, gurl qvq abg xabj, gurl qvq
abg jvfu gb xabj, orpnhfr nyy grzcgngvba fcenat sebz gur rivy bar; ohg
Uraev jnf n zna; naq fb gur erfcbafvovyvgl sryy hcba uvz. Ur orvat
erfcbafvoyr, gurl unq pbzznaqrq uvz gb fnpevsvpr uvzfrys naq guhf gb
ngbar sbe uvf fva, va gur snpr bs Tbq naq zna. Gung jnf ubj gurl unq
frra vg ng gur gvzr, ubj gurl unq pbzznaqrq, ubj vg unq pbzr gb cnff.
Ohg ur, gur sngure, unq ybfg uvf fba guebhtu gung pbzznaq; naq gur ybff
nyjnlf enaxyrq....

"Uraev naq Nqevnna nybar," gur byq zna ercrngrq.

Abj gung ur jnf ercrngvat uvf srj jbeqf, fur xarj gung uvf jvyy jnf
veeribpnoyr. Fur jnf fbeel sbe vg: gur ibvprf juvpu fcbxr gb ure abj naq
gura, ba avtugf jura gur jvaq oyrj, unq tenqhnyyl oebhtug ure gb n
tragyre zbbq, nf gubhtu gurl unq orra fbbguvat zhfvp gb ure yvfgravat
fbhy. Gubfr ibvprf unq gbyq ure gb tb gb gur Unthr; naq gurer fur unq
sbe gur frpbaq gvzr frra gung jbzna, gur onar bs gurve yvsr nf cneragf,
naq zrg gung jbzna'f zbgure; naq vg jnf nf gubhtu gung zrrgvat orgjrra
zbgure naq zbgure unq orra n tragyr onyz, nf tragyr naq urnyvat nf gur
zntvp zhfvp bs gur ibvprf, n onyz gung oebhtug nobhg n fbsgre zbbq, gung
pnhfrq zber gb or haqrefgbbq, gung pnhfrq zhpu gb or sbetvira, va n
tenqhny nccebnpu gbjneqf erpbapvyvngvba, nsgre fb znal, znal qvfzny
lrnef bs fvyrag enapbhe naq nagntbavfz. Va ure, gur byq jbzna, gur
enapbhe unq nf vg jrer zrygrq njnl, fvapr fur unq ernq gur fgenatr obbx,
fvapr fur unq urneq gur ibvprf ba thfgl avtugf, fvapr fur unq frra gung
jbzna'f zbgure naq xabja ure fnqarff. Va gur byq jbzna vg jnf n tragyr
jvfu abg bayl sbe erpbapvyvngvba, ohg sbe fbzr zrnfher bs sevraqfuvc
jvgu gung jbzna, gur jvsr bs ure fba, gur zbgure bs ure tenaqpuvyq. Ohg
fur sryg gung gurer jnf ab genpr bs nal fhpu jvfu va ure uhfonaq'f
urneg; naq, orpnhfr fur pbhyq bayl borl, fur fnvq abguvat naq zreryl
gbyq uvz jbeqyrffyl gung fur qvq abg guvax nf ur gubhtug.

Ur urneq ure fnlvat vg jvgubhg jbeqf, ohg ur qvq abg tvir va.

Naq, jura gurl jrag gb orq, ur fnvq:

"V funyy jevgr gb Uraev gb-zbeebj."

Ur jebgr gb nfx vs Uraev naq Nqevnna jbhyq pbzr naq fcraq n jrrx ng
Qevroretra, orsber Nqevnna'f ubyvqnlf jrer bire. Ina qre Jrypxr sryg va
gur ynobherq jbeqf bs gung byq zna jub jnf abg hfrq gb jevgvat gung uvf
sngure jnf vzcynpnoyr gbjneqf Pbafgnapr. Pbafgnapr sryg vg naq fb qvq
Nqqvr. Naq, jura Nqqvr, bssraqrq ba uvf zbgure'f orunys, fnvq, natevyl,
gung fur jnf orvat yrsg oruvaq nybar, fur ercyvrq:

"Vg'f orggre gung lbh fubhyq tb jvgu Cncn, zl obl."

Fur gubhtug vg nqivfnoyr sbe uvz, gur tenaqfba, gur urve, abg gb cebibxr
uvf tenaqsngure. Ohg fur unq arire fcrag n jrrx jvgubhg uvz orsber:

"Jung pna V qb?" fur gubhtug. "Ur vf tebjvat ovttre, byqre; V funyy frr
yrff bs uvz fgvyy nf gvzr tbrf ba."

Lrf, ur unq tebja ovttre, byqre; ur jnf abj sbhegrra. Ur jnf oebnq; naq
uvf ibvpr jnf fb phevbhfyl qrrc fbzrgvzrf, jnf punatvat; ohg ur erznvarq
fznyy sbe uvf ntr. Gur cvax puvyqvfuarff bs uvf fxva jnf orpbzvat qbjal
jvgu n fbeg bs oybaq iryirg oybbz; naq gung oybaq iryirg jnf zber
pyrneyl qrsvarq nobir uvf hccre yvc. Ohg ur jnf fgvyy n puvyq va gur
vaabprag serfuarff juvpu, qrfcvgr uvf frevbhfarff, jnsgrq sebz nyy uvf
orvat yvxr n creshzr.

"V'z tbvat gb Qevroretra sbe n jrrx jvgu Cncn," ur fnvq gb Cnhy, gb
Treevg, gb Nqryvar. "Jvyy lbh gnxr cvgl ba Znzzn, Hapyr, juvyr V'z njnl?
Jvyy lbh, Nhagvr?"

Gurl cebzvfrq, fzvyvat. Pbafgnapr erznvarq pnyz naq crnprshy. Nsgre
gubfr tragyl unccl zbbqf gurer unq pbzr gb ure, fvapr Nqqvr'f dhneery
jvgu Wnnc nobhg gur avpxanzr naq jung unq unccrarq nsgre gur dhneery, n
anzryrff qrcerffvba gung fvyragyl tanjrq ng ure urneg. Fur qvq abg fcrnx
nobhg vg, qvq abg zragvba vg gb Nqqvr, abe gb Treevg, abe gb Cnhy. Fur
ragbzorq vg va gur qrcgu bs urefrys.

Sngure naq fba jrag njnl; naq gur tenaqcneragf gubhtug gung gur yvggyr
obl unq tebja. Gur tenaqzbgure srnerq gung gur puvyqera bs gur ivyyn
pybfr ol jbhyq or gbb puvyqvfu, nsgre nyy, sbe Nqevnna gb cynl jvgu. Fur
fnvq guvf jvgu na nve bs qvfnccbvagzrag, ohg nyfb bs nfgbavfuzrag naq
nqzvengvba; naq, nygubhtu Uraev fnvq gung Nqqvr pbhyq cynl irel avpryl
jvgu uvf Hapyr Treevg'f snve-unverq yvggyr gevor, rira vs ur jnf n
yvggyr cngreany jvgu gurz, lrg gur byq jbzna frag ab zrffntr gb gur
ivyyn.

Vg jnf ornhgvshy ng Qevroretra naq Mrvfg; naq Ina qre Jrypxr rawblrq
orvat gurer. Naq, nf gurl unq oebhtug gurve ovplpyrf, gurl jrag ba ybat
rkcrqvgvbaf....

Jura nybar jvgu uvf sngure, Ina qre Jrypxr fcbxr bhg zber naq zber. Ur
fcbxr bs gur cnfg, uhzoyl, nf gubhtu bapr zber nfxvat sbetvirarff bs
gung fgrea sngure jub gb uvz, gur fba, frrzrq nyzbfg fhcreangheny va uvf
nofbyhgr iveghr naq fgnvayrffarff. Ur fcbxr bs Ebzr, ur rira fcbxr bs Qr
Fgnssrynre, jub jnf fgvyy nyvir, ng uvf pbhagel-cynpr arne Unneyrz, n
zna nf byq nf Ina qre Jrypxr'f sngure; ur fcbxr bs gubfr ynfg qvfzny
lrnef ng Oehffryf, bs ubj gurl unq obgu ybatrq sbe Qhgpu nve naq Qhgpu
crbcyr, rfcrpvnyyl sbe gurve bja snzvyvrf. Ohg ur nyfb fnvq gung,
ubjrire tynq ur zvtug or gb frr uvf cneragf ntnva, ur gubhtug gung gb
Pbafgnapr guvf erarjny bs snzvyl-gvrf jnf bsgra n qvfnccbvagzrag. Nf ur
gnyxrq, ur sryg uvzfrys gur obl, gur fghqrag, gur lbhat zna bs sbezre
qnlf, jub nyfb unq gnyxrq zhpu jvgu uvf sngure, jvgu uvf sngure nybar,
rira nf Nqqvr abj gnyxrq jvgu uvz. Ur fcbxr bs uvf obl naq nqzvggrq gung
ur jbefuvccrq uvz, gung gurl obgu jbefuvccrq uvz. Gur byq zna, dhvrgyl
fzbxvat uvf cvcr, yvfgrarq, gnxvat n arj vagrerfg va gubfr lbhatre
yvirf, gur yvirf bs uvf fba naq tenaqfba. Gur byq zna sryg nf gubhtu ur
jrer erqvfpbirevat fbzrguvat bs uvf fba, ohg ur nyfb sryg uvz gb or irel
sne njnl sebz uvz, jvgubhg ybir be srne bs Tbq.

Ina qre Jrypxr fcbxr ba.... Naq, nyzbfg hapbafpvbhfyl, va guvf
pbasrffvba naq nibjny bs uvf yvsr naq gubhtugf naq srryvatf, ur gbyq ubj
Nqqvr unq dhneeryyrq naq sbhtug jvgu uvf pbhfva, gbyq bs gur gnyx va
gurve pvepyr naq bs gur qvfgerff bs uvf fba. Ur gbyq ba, nyzbfg
hapbafpvbhfyl, bs gur jnirevat, gur fgehttyr, gur urycyrffarff bs
Pbafgnapr naq uvzfrys jura gurl fnj gurve puvyq cvavat jvgu gung
qvfgerff. Naq, nyzbfg hapbafpvbhfyl, Ina qre Jrypxr pbasrffrq, dhvgr
fvzcyl, gung ur unq fcbxra gb uvf fba nf gb n zna naq gbyq uvf fba gur
gehgu nobhg uvf cneragf' cnfg.

Gur byq zna, dhvrgyl fzbxvat, unq urneq uvz va fvyrapr, tynq gb yvfgra
gb uvf fba'f ibvpr. Jung uvf fba unq gbyq uvz gb fgneg jvgu jnf fgenatr
gb uvz: gubhtugf, srryvatf, rkcrevraprf bs n irel fgenatr yvsr,
qvssrevat jubyyl sebz uvf bja. Ohg jung uvf fba gbyq uvz abj znqr uvz
qbhog jurgure ur unq urneq nevtug:

"Jung qb lbh fnl?" ur nfxrq, guvaxvat gung ur zhfg or uneq bs urnevat.

Ina qre Jrypxr ercrngrq jung ur unq fnvq.

"Lbh gbyq ... Nqevnna ... lbhe cnfg?... Gbyq uvz nobhg Ebzr naq Qr
Fgnssrynre?..."

"Lrf, jvgubhg ragrevat vagb haarprffnel qrgnvyf naq jvgu qhr erfcrpg sbe
uvf lbhgu, V gbyq uvz gur gehgu, gur jubyr gehgu. Gur obl jnf fhssrevat
cnva, jnf qvfgerffrq orpnhfr ur qvq abg xabj; naq abj ur vf fhssrevat ab
ybatre."

Gur byq zna fubbx uvf urnq, chg qbja uvf cvcr:

"V qba'g haqrefgnaq," ur fnvq. "Be ryfr gurer'f fbzrguvat jebat jvgu zl
urnevat. Lbh gbyq ... Nqevnna...?"

Ina qre Jrypxr ercrngrq vg ntnva, fzvyvat n yvggyr ng uvf sngure'f
nfgbavfuzrag.

Gur byq zna haqrefgbbq gung ur unq urneq dhvgr pyrneyl. Ohg ur jnf fb
zhpu fubpxrq gung ur pbhyq abg fcrnx.

Naq vg jnf bayl arkg qnl gung ur nfxrq:

"Ubj jrer lbh noyr gb gryy Nqevnna gung?"

"Whfg cynvayl naq fvzcyl," fnvq Ina qre Jrypxr.

"Whfg cynvayl naq fvzcyl?" gur byq zna rpubrq.

Naq abg hagvy gung riravat qvq ur svaq zber jbeqf; gura ur fnvq:

"Ab, V pna'g haqrefgnaq vg. V pna'g haqrefgnaq lbh, Uraev. V srry gung
gurer vf n irel, irel qrrc thys orgjrra hf. V srry gung gurer vf arvgure
ybir abe srne bs Tbq va lbh, gung rirelguvat va lbhe yvsr, va lbhe
eryngvbaf jvgu lbhe jvsr, jvgu lbhe puvyq, ynpxf n eryvtvbhf graqrapl.
Vg znxrf zr irel fnq. V pbhyq arire unir cvpgherq guvatf yvxr gung. V ng
yrnfg gubhtug gung lbh jbhyq unir nfxrq Tbq'f sbetvirarff qnvyl sbe gur
fva lbh bapr pbzzvggrq, gur fva ntnvafg lbhefrys, lbhe cneragf, gung
jbzna, ure uhfonaq, ntnvafg gur jbeyq, ntnvafg Tbq. V arire vzntvarq
lbh, Uraev, fb boqhengr, fb ragveryl jvgubhg ercragnapr, erterggvat
zreryl lbhe bja ehvarq yvsr naq funggrerq pnerre. V pna bayl cenl sbe
lbh naq V jvyy cenl sbe lbh, rirel qnl. Fgvyy, V pna haqrefgnaq jnag bs
snvgu. Ohg jung V pna'g haqrefgnaq vf gung lbh fubhyq--cynvayl naq
fvzcyl--pbeehcg gur fbhy bs lbhe fba, n puvyq bs sbhegrra, ol gryyvat
uvz bs lbhe fva--cynvayl naq fvzcyl--fb gung ur zvtug ab ybatre fhssre:
gubfr jrer lbhe jbeqf, jrer gurl abg? Abj, jura V ercrng gubfr jbeqf gb
zlfrys naq ercrng gurz ntnva naq guvax bire gurz naq ersyrpg hcba gurz,
V snvy gb haqrefgnaq gurz. V qb abg haqrefgnaq gurz. V srry gung lbh
zhfg or ragveryl ynpxvat va zbeny frafr, va nal vqrn bs qhgl gbjneqf
lbhe puvyq, va nal srne bs Tbq, gb or noyr gb npg yvxr gung, gb or noyr
gb fcrnx yvxr gung gb lbhe fba, whfg gb fcner uvz fhssrevat--cynvayl naq
fvzcyl--naq V nfx zlfrys, 'Nz V qernzvat? Jurer nz V? Jubz nz V fcrnxvat
gb? Vf gur zna bccbfvgr zr zl fba, zl puvyq, oebhtug hc ol zlfrys, naq
vf jung ur vf gryyvat zr gur gehgu be na vyyhfvba?' Naq, vs gung
vyyhfvba vf gur gehgu, Uraev, vs lbh ner fb ragveryl ybfg gb rirel frafr
bs zbeny naq cneragny qhgl, gura V nz irel, irel fbeel gb urne vg naq V
fvg fgnevat vagb n ubeevoyr nolff; naq V pbasrff gung V qb abg
haqrefgnaq lbh naq gung V haqrefgnaq abguvat bs gur jbeyq, gur gvzrf naq
gur crbcyr bs gb-qnl...."

Gur byq zna unq fcbxra fybjyl, zrnfhevat rirel jbeq.

"Sngure," fnvq Uraev, "lbh naq V ner qvssrerag; naq V pna haqrefgnaq
gung lbh, na byq zna, va lbhe terng tbbqarff naq genafpraqragny frafr bs
qhgl, pnaabg haqrefgnaq ubj V srry naq guvax naq npg. Fgvyy, V qb abg
oryvrir gung V unir pbeehcgrq Nqqvr naq V nz pbaivaprq gung vg jnf n
tbbq vzchyfr gung fhttrfgrq gb Pbafgnapr naq zr gb gryy bhe puvyq nobhg
bhe cnfg ng bapr naq abg gb jnvg hagvy ur jnf n lrne be gjb byqre. Gryy
zr vs lbh guvax gung ur ybbxf yvxr n puvyq jubfr vzntvangvba unf orra
qrsvyrq. Gryy zr vs lbh qb abg guvax, ba gur pbagenel, gung ur vf n
fgebat-zvaqrq obl jub fhssrerq sebz gubfr fynaqref, jura gurl ernpurq
uvz, fvzcyl orpnhfr ur qvq abg xabj gur gehgu, naq jub abj, xabjvat gur
gehgu, ybirf obgu uvf cneragf jvgu uvf pyrne, pnaqvq fbhy naq vf ab
ybatre va qbhog, ohg xabjf."

Gur byq zna fybjyl fubbx uvf urnq jvgu gur gnyy, vibel sberurnq, juvyr
uvf taneyrq unaqf gerzoyrq:

"Uraev, lbh pna gunax Tbq vs lbhe puvyq, jubfr chevgl lbh unir chg gb fb
frirer n grfg, rzretrf sebz gung grfg hafgnvarq."

Ina qre Jrypxr jnf fvyrag, bhg bs erfcrpg. Ur sryg uvzfrys,
abgjvgufgnaqvat uvf ybir, fb sne erzbirq sebz uvf sngure gung uvf urneg
jnf jehat naq ur gubhtug:

"Jvyy Nqqvr rire, rire or fb sne erzbirq sebz zr?..."




PUNCGRE KKKVI


Gur byq zna bsgra eriregrq gb gung pbairefngvba:

"Uraev, pna lbh vzntvar zr, lbhe sngure, fcrnxvat gb lbh, jura lbh jrer
guvegrra, nobhg n fva, n pevzr V unq pbzzvggrq?"

Ab, Ina qre Jrypxr pbhyq arire unir vzntvarq vg! Ur jnf fbeel abj gung
ur unq gbyq uvf sngure fb zhpu, frrvat ubj fubpxrq gur byq zna jnf. Naq,
gubhtu ur gevrq gb svaq fbbguvat jbeqf, va beqre gb pnyz uvf sngure
nsgre gung fubpx, fgvyy rirelguvat gung ur fnvq fbhaqrq gbb plavpny, gbb
zbqrea, gbb syvccnag nyzbfg; naq ur ab ybatre nafjrerq, ohg cersreerq gb
nibvq gur fhowrpg, jura gur byq zna erghearq gb vg qnvyl, funxvat uvf
urnq naq znxvat uvf pbzzragf. Naq Ina qre Jrypxr jnf boyvtrq gb fzvyr
jura uvf sngure bsgra pybfrq gubfr pbzzragf jvgu gur erznex:

"Qba'g yrg lbhe zbgure xabj nalguvat nobhg vg."

Ab, ur qvq abg gryy uvf zbgure, orpnhfr uvf sngure beqrerq uvz gb yrnir
uvf zbgure bhg bs nyy guvf plavpny cuvybfbcul naq ngurvfgvpny ynpx bs
cevapvcyr, orpnhfr uvf sngure gubhtug gung vg jbhyq uheg ure, uvf jvsr,
jubz ur unq nyjnlf xrcg frpyhqrq sebz nyy xabjyrqtr bs gur bhgfvqr
jbeyq, hagvy gur fpnaqny va Ebzr unq pbzr nf n fubpx gb obgu bs gurz.
Naq rira gura, va gur lrnef gung sbyybjrq, ur unq nyjnlf uvqqra nf zhpu
nf cbffvoyr bs gur jbeyq sebz uvf jvsr, ubyqvat gung n jbzna, jungrire
ure ntr, arrq abg xabj, arrq abg ernq, arrq abg qvfphff, arrq abg
ersyrpg hcba nyy gubfr guvatf juvpu, sne erzbirq sebz gur gjb bs gurz,
jrer fva: fva fhpu nf gurve fba unq pbzzvggrq....

Ina qre Jrypxr abj sbe gur svefg gvzr shyyl ernyvmrq ubj tevribhf gur
fubpx bs gur fpnaqny zhfg unir orra gb obgu bs gurz, lrnef ntb. Ur,
lbhat gubhtu ur jnf naq ohg yngryl rznapvcngrq sebz uvf cneragf, unq ng
bapr ybfg fb zhpu bs gubfr fgevpg cevapvcyrf va uvf yvsr va Ebzr, va uvf
pbagnpg jvgu jbzra bs gur jbeyq, va uvf cbyvfurq qenjvat-ebbz gnyx ba
fbhy-jrnevarff jvgu Pbafgnapr; naq ur abj sbe gur svefg gvzr shyyl
haqrefgbbq jul gurl unq abg jvfurq gb frr gur gjb bs gurz naq jul lrnef
unq gb ryncfr orsber gurer pbhyq or nal dhrfgvba bs sbetvirarff. Naq,
ubjrire zhpu ur unq ybatrq sbe uvf sngure, va Oehffryf, ur abj sryg gung
guvf ybatvat jnf na vyyhfvba; gung uvf sngure jnf n fgenatre gb uvz abj
naq ur n fgenatre gb uvf sngure: gjb fgenatref gb rnpu bgure, jubz bayl
n erzrzoenapr bs sbezre qnlf unq oebhtug gbtrgure ntnva. Naq, phevbhfyl,
gubhtu, nf n puvyq, ur unq yvxrq uvf sngure orggre guna uvf zbgure, uvf
ybir abj frrzrq gb ghea zber gb uvf zbgure, jub unq arire orpbzr n
fgenatre, jub unq nyjnlf erznvarq gur zbgure, fvyragyl ernqvat ure
sbeovqqra obbx, ybatvat fvzcyl sbe ure puvyq, gb jubz gur ibvprf unq
frag ure....

"Ohg, whfg nf zl sngure jbhyq arire unir fcbxra bhg gb zr, ab zber jbhyq
V rire unir tbar ovplpyvat jvgu zl sngure?" gubhtug Ina qre Jrypxr, nf
ur qnegrq jvgu Nqqvr nybat gur fzbbgu ebnqf gbjneqf gur Mrvfg Jbbqf.

Gurl jrer yvxr gjb oebguref, na ryqre naq n lbhatre oebgure, arvgure bs
gurz gnyy, ohg obgu snveyl oebnq, obgu jvgu fbzrguvat qryvpngr naq
uvtu-oerq naq lrg fbzrguvat cbjreshy va gurve ohvyq--Ina qre Jrypxr jnf
lbhat fgvyy naq fyraqre sbe uvf avar-naq-guvegl lrnef--naq obgu, haqre
gur fnzr fbeg bs pnc, unq gur fnzr snpr, gur fnzr fgrry-oyhr rlrf, gur
fnzr fgenvtug cebsvyr, jvgu vgf fubeg abfr, jryy-sbezrq zbhgu naq oebnq
puva, gubhtu bar jnf n zna naq gur bgure n obl. Gurl crqnyyrq naq
crqnyyrq naq qribherq gur ebnqf ba gung fpbepuvat Nhthfg zbeavat,
gnyxvat tnvyl yvxr gjb sevraqf.

"Yrg'f fgbc urer, Nqqvr, naq gnxr n erfg," fnvq Ina qre Jrypxr, ng
yratgu, bhg bs oerngu.

Gurl nyvtugrq, yrnag gurve znpuvarf ntnvafg n pbhcyr bs gerrf, syhat
gurzfryirf ba gur zbhaq bs arrqyrf haqre gur sve-gerrf, juvpu ebfr
fvyragyl naq crnprshyyl, pnyz nf pngurqeny-cvyynef.

"V fnl, V'z gverq," fnvq Ina qre Jrypxr, srryvat n yvggyr byqre, sbe gur
zbzrag, guna uvf fba. "Nqqvr, ubj lbh gnxr vg bhg bs lbhe sngure!"

Nqqvr ynhturq, chyyrq bss uvf pnc naq jvcrq uvf sberurnq jvgu uvf
unaqxrepuvrs. Ina qre Jrypxr erfgrq uvf urnq ba Nqqvr'f xarr.

"Zbir uvture hc: lbh'er abg pbzsbegnoyr yvxr gung," fnvq Nqqvr.

Naq, pngpuvat uvf sngure haqre gur nez-cvgf, ur ubvfgrq uvz hc n ovg:

"Ab, gung jba'g qb rvgure," ur fnvq. "Ybbx urer, lbh'er fdhnfuvat zl
fgbznpu!"

"Vf guvf orggre?"

"Lrf, vs lbh xrrc fgvyy, byq punc, naq qba'g zbir, lbh pna fgnl yvxr
gung."

Naq ur cnffrq uvf svatref guebhtu uvf sngure'f fubeg, pheyl unve, juvyr
Ina qre Jrypxr ynl fvyrag, pybfrq uvf rlrf naq gubhtug:

"Snapl zr, jura V jnf sbhegrra, chyyvat hc zl sngure ol uvf nezf naq
fnlvat gb uvz, 'Ybbx urer, lbh'er fdhnfuvat zl fgbznpu!... Vs lbh xrrc
fgvyy, byq punc, lbh pna fgnl yvxr gung!'"

Naq ur fhqqrayl ortna gb fcyhggre jvgu ynhtugre.

"V fnl, jung'f hc? Jung ner lbh ynhtuvat ng?"

"Nqqvr, V jnf guvaxvat, V jnf guvaxvat...."

"Jryy, jung jrer lbh guvaxvat?"

"V jnf guvaxvat...."

Naq Ina qre Jrypxr ortna gb jbooyr hc naq qbja jvgu ynhtugre.

"Bu, ohg V fnl! Jbn! jbn! Qba'g tb whzcvat nobhg ba zl fgbznpu yvxr
gung! Uv! Fgbc! Xrrc fgvyy! Jung'f gur wbxr?"

"V jnf guvaxvat ... bs lbhe Tenaqcncn'f snpr ... vs ... jura V jnf lbhe
ntr ... V unq unhyrq uvz hc yvxr gung ol uvf nezf naq fnvq gb uvz, 'Vs
lbh xrrc fgvyy ... vs lbh xrrc fgvyy...!'"

Nqqvr'f frafr bs uhzbhe znqr uvz frr gur cvpgher ng bapr: Tenaqcncn,
trggvat ba sbe sbegl naq irel fgngryl naq qvtavsvrq, naq Cncn, n obl
yvxr uvzfrys; naq Cncn fnlvat:

"Vs lbh xrrc fgvyy, byq punc, lbh pna fgnl yvxr gung!"

Naq obgu bs gurz ohefg jvgu ynhtugre, bar ba gbc bs gur bgure; naq
Nqqvr, jubz uvf sngure'f jrvtug ceriragrq sebz ynhtuvat nf ur jbhyq unir
yvxrq gb, syhat uvf yrtf znqyl va gur nve, nyzbfg fgbbq ba uvf urnq,
hagvy Ina qre Jrypxr ghzoyrq onpxjneqf, jvgu uvf urnq ybjre guna uvf
srrg:

"Obgure lbh! V jnf whfg fb pbzsbegnoyr!"

Nqqvr gbbx cvgl ba Cncn, chyyrq uvz hc ntnva haqre uvf nezf, qenttrq uvz
nobhg zbfg qvferfcrpgshyyl, svefg fubirq uvf urnq ba uvf purfg ... ab,
gung uheg ... gura n yvggyr ybjre qbja ... ba uvf fgbznpu.... Gurer, ur
pbhyq fgnl yvxr gung....

Ohg Ina qre Jrypxr xrcg ba ynhtuvat yvxr n yhangvp. Naq Nqqvr jnf gur
svefg gb erpbire uvf frevbhfarff:

"Sngure, fgbc vg abj! Fgbc funxvat nobhg yvxr gung!"

Ina qre Jrypxr pybfrq uvf rlrf oyvffshyyl. Gur fprag bs gur fgrnzvat
cvarf sybngrq ba gur fhzzrel nve; gur arrqyrf tyvfgrarq naq tnir bss
gurve sentenapr. Naq Ina qre Jrypxr sryy nfyrrc, jvgu uvf urnq va uvf
fba'f ync.

"Qrne byq Sngure!" gubhtug Nqqvr; naq ur fgebxrq uvf sngure'f ebhaq,
pheyl urnq.

Ur ybbxrq qbja ng uvz naq, fb nf abg gb qvfgheo uvf sngure'f fyrrc, fng
zbgvbayrff, jvgu uvf onpx ntnvafg n gerr. Ur ybbxrq qbja ng uvz: qrne
byq Sngure!... Ohg ur jnf abg byq, uvf sngure: ur jnf lbhat.... Naq, nyy
ng bapr, vg frrzrq gb Nqqvr gung ur fnj vg sbe gur svefg gvzr: uvf
sngure jnf lbhat. Naq ur gubhtug gb uvzfrys ubj fgenatr vg jnf gung,
jura lbh ner lbhat lbhefrys, lbh pnyy rirelobql byq: Tenaal ina Ybjr naq
Tenaqcncn naq Tenaqznzzn ina qre Jrypxr jrer byq; naq Hapyr Ehliranre
naq Nhagvr jrer byq; naq gur gjb byq nhagf, Nhagvr Evar naq Nhagvr Gvar,
jrer irel byq, erthyne byq zhzzvrf. Ohg Cncn, Cncn jnf lbhat. Jul, ur
jnf bayl n lrne be gjb byqre guna Hapyr Cnhy, jub jnf nyjnlf gur lbhat
zna, gur qnaql, jvgu uvf rkdhvfvgr pbngf naq ornhgvshy gvrf. Naq Cncn
ybbxrq lbhatre guna Hapyr Cnhy, Cncn pregnvayl ybbxrq lbhatre.... Nqqvr
orag bire uvz, juvyr ur fyrcg. Ur ynl dhvrgyl fyrrcvat, jvgu uvf snpr
guerr-dhnegref ghearq ba Nqqvr'f ync. Naq Nqqvr, frrvat sbe gur svefg
gvzr gung Cncn jnf lbhat, fghqvrq uvf snpr. Bu, ubj lbhat Cncn jnf: ur
jnf lbhatre guna Znzzn! Ur ybbxrq zhpu lbhatre; ur ybbxrq nyzbfg yvxr na
ryqre oebgure bs Nqqvr'f. Uvf unve, guvaavat rire fb yvggyr bire gur
grzcyrf, jnf fgvyy dhvgr oebja: fbsg, fubeg, pheyl oebja unve, nyzbfg
pybfr-pebccrq, ohg pheyvat whfg n yvggyr, yvxr uvf bja. Uvf sberurnq jnf
juvgr, yvxr gung bs n fgnghr, jvgubhg n jevaxyr, unq xrcg juvgr haqre
gur crnx bs uvf plpyvat-pnc; naq uvf purrxf, n yvggyr oyhr sebz funivat,
jrer urnyguvyl oebamrq. Uvf rlryvqf jrer lbhat, uvf yvqf abj pybfrq va
fyrrc; uvf fgenvtug abfr jnf lbhat naq uvf zbhgu, jvgu gur fubeg, guvpx,
pheyl zbhfgnpur nobir vg. Uvf senzr jnf lbhat; naq ba Nqqvr'f xarrf ynl
uvf lbhat unaqf, fznyy, oebnq naq qnvagl, jvgu pnershyyl-graqrq anvyf:
Nqqvr ybbxrq ng uvf bja svatre-anvyf, obl'f anvyf, juvpu jrer gbea
engure guna phg.... Ubj fgenatr gung Cncn fubhyq or fb lbhat! Ur abgvprq
vg sbe gur svefg gvzr. Naq sbe gur svefg gvzr ur sryg uvzfrys gb unir
tebja byqre, ab ybatre dhvgr n puvyq, n obl fgvyy, ohg tebja vagb n
lbhat zna, rira gubhtu ur jnf bayl sbhegrra.... Lrf, jura lbh jrer n
puvyq, n erny puvyq, lbh ybbxrq hcba nalobql byqre guna lbhefrys nf whfg
byq. Abj, ur jnf nfgbhaqrq: ubj lbhat Cncn jnf; naq ubj zhpu byqre Znzzn
jnf! Gehr, ure snpr jnf lbhat fgvyy, ohg fur unq terl unve, fur jnf
sbegl-guerr.... Ur pbhyq vzntvar Cncn jvgu n irel lbhat jvsr, n tvey
nyzbfg, yvxr bar bs gur pbhfvaf, Ybhvfr be Rzvyvr, be Sybbegwr: Cncn naq
n jvsr yvxr gung jbhyq znxr n tbbq cnve.... Ubj lbhat ur jnf, ubj lbhat
ur jnf!... Ur jnf abj fyrrcvat yvxr n puvyq, ba Nqqvr'f fgbznpu,
crnprshyyl oernguvat.... Qrne byq Sngure!... Ab, abg n ovg byq: nf lbhat
nf n oebgure, nf n sevraq, nf n puhz. Fb wbyyl gbb naq fb znq
fbzrgvzrf.... Naq gura fhqqrayl ur jbhyq gel gb or gur fgrea cnerag!
Qrne Sngure!--Nqqvr ynhturq--Gung qvqa'g pbzr bss ng nyy! Ur ybirq uvz
yvxr gung: fb lbhat, fhpu n sevraq, fhpu n puhz, fhpu n oebgure....
Znzzn jnf uvf zbgure, nyjnlf, rira gubhtu ur qvq fbzrgvzrf syveg jvgu
ure; ohg Cncn jnf abg n Cncn, Cncn jnf uvf sevraq naq uvf oebgure. Ohg,
lbhat gubhtu Cncn jnf, Nqqvr arireguryrff gubhtug vg fgenatr gung ur unq
fnvq gb uvz fb bsgra:

"Zl yvsr vf funggrerq, zl pnerre vf qbar sbe."

Jul jnf gung? Jnf vg bayl orpnhfr Cncn unq unq gb yrnir gur qvcybzngvp
freivpr jura ur jnf fgvyy dhvgr lbhat naq unq zneevrq Znzzn? Ohg Nqqvr
jnf n frafvoyr naq cerzngheryl vagryyvtrag puvyq; naq uvf oevtug, lbhat
vagryyvtrapr pbhyq abg nqzvg gung; naq, fhqqrayl, Nqqvr gubhtug, vs
guvatf ernyyl jrer nf Cncn qrpynerq--uvf yvsr funggrerq, uvf pnerre qbar
sbe--gura Nqqvr gubhtug vg jebat, qvfnccebirq bs vg, gubhtug vg jrnx bs
Cncn, jrnx, zbeovq nyzbfg, lrf, zbeovq. Ubj jnf vg cbffvoyr gung Cncn,
fvapr gur qnl jura ur unq frag va uvf erfvtangvba, unq arire qbar
nalguvat ohg pbzcynva bs gung ehvarq pnerre, ercebnpuvat Znzzn jvgu vg,
fvyragyl be bhg ybhq, naq bayl cvpxvat hc n gevsyr ng Oehffryf jvgu
pbzzvffvbaf ba jvar naq vafhenaprf, jurernf gurer jnf fb zhpu ryfr:
yvsr, gur jbeyq, gur jubyr jbeyq bcra orsber uvz! Naq gb uvz, gb gur obl
uvzfrys, vg jnf nf gubhtu jvqr cebfcrpgf fgergpurq bhg orsber uvz, juvpu
nf lrg ur bayl qvivarq nf n qernz bs gur shgher, juvpu nf lrg ur bayl
sryg gb or gurer, gb rkvfg sbe nal bar jub vf lbhat naq fgebat naq
urnygul naq unf oenvaf. Ohg, juvyr ur guhf jbaqrerq naq qvfnccebirq
jvguva uvzfrys--fb jrnx: jul fb jrnx?--ur sryg n fbeg bs sbaq naq tragyr
cvgl nzvqfg uvf jbaqre naq qvfnccebiny, pbzovarq jvgu n fbeg bs arrq gb
tebj fgvyy sbaqre bs gung sngure, jub jnf fb lbhat, fb fgebat naq ... fb
jrnx. Uvf oblvfu unaq erfgrq tragyl ba uvf sngure'f pheyl unve, fgebxrq
vg tragyl juvyr uvf sngure ynl fyrrcvat; naq, jvgu n fbeg bs graqrearff,
gur obl gubhtug:

"Jul ner lbh yvxr gung? Ubj pna lbh or yvxr gung? Jul unir lbh arire
birepbzr gung jrnxarff, orpbzr znayvre, svezre? Cbbe, cbbe Sngure!..."

Naq vg jnf fgenatr, ohg, juvyr ur qvfnccebirq, ur sryg uvf ybir
vapernfr, nf gur ybir bs gur fgebatre tbrf bhg gb gur jrnxre naq yrffre:
gur fgebatre gur bar srryf, gur jrnxre gur bgure nccrnef gb uvz; naq
guhf gur vafgvapg vf qrirybcrq gb cebgrpg naq pner sbe gung bgure. Naq
abj ur erznvarq fgbpx-fgvyy, guvaxvat gung ur unq ernyyl gverq uvf
sngure bhg, sbe gurl unq evqqra yvxr znq gung zbeavat, vagbkvpngrq jvgu
gur fzbbgu yratgu bs gur ebnqf, tvqqvrq jvgu rkprffvir fcrrq.

Ur erznvarq fgbpx-fgvyy, nf gubhtu ur uvzfrys jrer n sngure jub jnf
yrggvat uvf gverq puvyq fyrrc va uvf nezf. Naq, juvyr ur fng tnmvat ng
gung lbhat snpr bs uvf sngure'f, gung juvgr sberurnq qvivqrq jvgu n
funec fgevcr sebz gur oyhr, oebamrq purrxf, gurer syhggrerq guebhtu uvf
ivfvba gubfr arj gubhtugf, yvxr oveqf gung jrer yrneavat gb syl, gubfr
qernzf bs jvqr cebfcrpgf fgergpuvat njnl gb qvz shgherf ng juvpu ur bayl
thrffrq nf lrg, orpnhfr gur jbeyq jnf fb jvqr naq yvsr fb ovt. Naq,
gubhtu gurfr syrqtyvat gubhtugf jrer nyy vtabenag bs gur jbeyq naq bs
yvsr, gurl syhggrerq gb naq seb, syhggrerq njnl naq gura onpx gb gur
arfg, jurer gurl, gur arj-obea gubhtugf, frggyrq hcba gung terngrfg naq
fgebatrfg naq zbfg pbafpvbhf srryvat, gung bs ybir sbe gur sngure jub
jnf fb lbhat gung ur jnf yvxr n oebgure naq fb jrnx gung ur jnf nf n
puvyq....




PUNCGRE KKKI


Pbafgnapr jnf zhpu nybar qhevat gubfr qnlf. Fur jnf rira zber ybaryl
guna fur unq rire orra va Oehffryf--jura Ina qre Jrypxr jnf njnl nobhg
uvf jvarf be uvf vafhenaprf--orpnhfr guvf jnf gur svefg gvzr gung fur
unq orra cnegrq sebz Nqqvr. Fur fnj ure zbgure nyzbfg rirel qnl,
ubjrire; ohg, sbe gur erfg, fur zbfgyl fgnlrq ng ubzr, whfg nf fur unq
irel bsgra fgnlrq ng ubzr va Oehffryf. N tragyr zrynapubyl unq pbzr hcba
ure, nsgre ure svgf bs qrcerffvba, n zrynapubyl gung vzcryyrq ure gb or
zhpu ng ubzr naq zhpu ol urefrys. Fur jnf n fgnl-ng-ubzr jbzna: ure
ubhfr unq gur jryy-graqrq naq nggenpgvir naq pbzsbegnoyr nccrnenapr bs n
ubhfr juvpu vf ybirq ol vgf bpphcnag jvgu gur hanqiraghebhf srryvat gung
ubzr vf gur fnsrfg cynpr. Fur ohfvrq urefrys va gur zbeavatf va n dhvrg
jnl, qvq ure ubhfrxrrcvat, tnir ure beqref dhvrgyl naq zrgubqvpnyyl; naq
ure ubhfr nyjnlf unq na ngzbfcurer bs pbfl, erfgshy jryy-orvat, juvpu
frrzrq gb pnyz ure naq crefhnqr ure gb fgnl va vg. Gur gjb znvqf, jvgu
jubz fur jnf nyjnlf gur pnyz, cyrnfnag zvfgerff bs gur ubhfr, yvxrq ure,
qvq gurve jbex dhvrgyl naq fbba yrneag jung jnf rkcrpgrq bs gurz. Qhevat
gurfr qnlf jura fur jnf nybar, fur jrag nyy bire gur ubhfr jvgu gurz,
znqr gurz tvir Ina qre Jrypxr'f ebbz naq Nqqvr'f ebbz n gubebhtu
pyrnavat, jrag guebhtu rirel pbeare bs ure phcobneqf jvgu ure tragyr,
zvaqshy svatref, gur svatref bs n qnvagl jbzna jub vzcnegrq fbzrguvat bs
ure bja qnvagvarff gb rirelguvat gung fur gbhpurq.

Fur jnf abg n terng ernqre, qvq abg cynl gur cvnab, jnf abg rira
cnegvphyneyl phygherq. Nf n puvyq, fur unq orra sbaq bs snvel-gnyrf; nf
n puvyq, fur unq rira vairagrq snvel-gnyrf; ohg, ncneg sebz gung, fur
qvq abg pner zhpu sbe yvgrengher; cbrgel fur ertneqrq nf vafvaprer; naq
fur qvq abg xabj zhpu nobhg zhfvp. Ohg gurer jnf fbzrguvat fbsg naq
cerggl naq qvfgvathvfurq nobhg ure, fbzrguvat rkdhvfvgr naq srzvavar,
rfcrpvnyyl abj gung ure inavgl jnf ernyyl qrnq. Fur unq na vaangr gnfgr
sbe arire qbvat be fnlvat nalguvat gung jnf htyl be unefu be pbnefr; naq
vg jnf bayl jura ure areirf tbg gur orggre bs ure gung fur pbhyq ybfr
ure grzcre naq syl vagb n cnffvba. Ohg, bjvat rfcrpvnyyl gb ure fnqarff
naq gb gur terl naq qvfzny lrnef juvpu fur unq cnffrq, fur unq qrirybcrq
n irel frafvgvir, fbsg urneg, nyzbfg ulcrefrafvgvir naq birefbsg. N jbeq
bs flzcngul ng bapr sryy hcba ure yvxr xvaqyl qrj naq znqr ure ybir
jubrire hggrerq vg. Fur unq orpbzr irel sbaq bs ure zbgure, zber fb guna
sbezreyl, nccerpvngvat va Znzzn gur zbgure jub xrcg ure puvyqera
gbtrgure. Fur nyfb funerq gung snzvyl-nssrpgvba, gung fgenatr sbaqarff
sbe nyy ure xvgu naq xva. Ohg fur bsgra rkcrevraprq jung Znzzn arire
sryg: gur qvfnccbvagzrag naq qrcerffvba naq qvfpbhentrzrag bs ybivat
jvgu n ybir gung jnf qrrc naq vapyhfvir gubfr jubfr punatvat, pbzcyrk
vagrerfgf jrer sbe rire gnxvat gurz snegure naq snegure bhg bs ernpu. Ng
fhpu gvzrf, fur whfg erznvarq ng ubzr, va ure bja ubhfr, jenccrq urefrys
va ure tragyr zrynapubyl, jrag bire gur ubhfr jvgu gur znvqf, jub yvxrq
ure, va beqre gung rirelguvat zvtug or irel avpr naq arng. Fur unq
abguvat bs gur Qhgpu ubhfrjvsr nobhg ure; naq gur znvqf bsgra gbyq ure
gung Zef. Fb-naq-fb hfrq gb qb guvatf guvf jnl naq Zef. Jung'f-ure-anzr
gung jnl. Ohg fur unq fb zhpu gnpg gung gurl qvq nf fur jvfurq naq
npprcgrq ure qvfgevohgvba bs ubhef naq qhgvrf; naq ure ubhfr jnf nyjnlf
va beqre, pbzsbegnoyr, svg gb yvir va. Fur unq gur tragyr yvggyr snqf bs
n jbzna jub unf ab terng vagryyrpg naq jub gnxrf cyrnfher va nyzbfg
fvzcyr, puvyqvfu yvggyr srzvavavgvrf. Vs fur unccrarq gb unir n urnqnpur
be sryg bhg bs fbegf, fur gubhtug vg cyrnfnag gb yvr ba gur fbsn va ure
orqebbz jvgu n urnc bs snfuvba-cyngrf nebhaq ure naq dhvrgyl gb guvax
bhg nyy fbegf bs pbfghzrf, juvpu fur qvq abg erdhver naq qvq abg beqre,
ohg juvpu fur whfg gubhtug bhg, perngrq, jvgu gur tenprshy snapl bs n
qnvagl jbzna jub ybirf cerggl pybgurf. Be fur pbhyq nzhfr urefrys jvgu
gvqlvat hc ure phcobneqf, tbvat guebhtu nyy ure ynprf naq evoobaf,
sbyqvat gurz hc arngyl, fzbbguvat gurz bhg, ynlvat gurz va gur qvssrerag
pbzcnegzragf bs rkdhvfvgr yvggyr Rzcver purfgf-bs-qenjref naq fpragvat
gurz jvgu beevf-ebbg. Be fur pbhyq tb guebhtu ure gevaxrgf--fur unq abg
znal--cbyvfuvat ure wrjryf naq gelvat gur rssrpg bs gurz hcba urefrys
jvgu n cyrnfrq ynhtu ng gubfr cerggl guvatf juvpu fcnexyr fb oevtugyl
naq raunapr n jbzna'f ornhgl. Fur jnf abg vagrerfgrq va gur ynetre
dhrfgvbaf, qvq abg haqrefgnaq srzvavfz, jnf n yvggyr nsenvq bs
fbpvnyvfz, rfcrpvnyyl orpnhfr gur cbbe jrer fb qvegl naq fzryg fb
ubeevoyl. Fgvyy, fur jnf punevgnoyr, gubhtu fur jnf abg ng nyy jryy-bss,
naq bsgra tnir zbarl gb gur cbbe naq qvegl, ubcvat nobir nyy gung gurl
jbhyq jnfu gurzfryirf. Naq lrg fur unq n snveyl ybtvpny vagryyvtrapr,
rira gubhtu fur jnf abg phygherq, rira gubhtu fur qvq abg cbaqre qrrcyl
ba fbpvny dhrfgvbaf be ba neg. Abj gung ure inavgl jnf qrnq, fur jnf n
jbzna bs gur jbeyq, jub gubhtug gur jbeyq grqvbhf naq gverfbzr naq sryg
whfg n arrq sbe flzcngul naq fbsg pbzcnffvba. Naq bayl fbzrgvzrf qvq gur
fgevatf jvguva ure frrz gb orpbzr zber grafryl fgergpurq naq gurer
fbhaqrq guebhtu ure fbzrguvat yvxr n inthr fnqarff gung fhqqrayl znqr
ure guvax naq fnl gb urefrys:

"Ubj fznyy jr ner naq ubj fznyy rirelguvat gung jr qb vf! V nz tebjvat
byq abj; naq jung unf gurer orra va zl rkvfgrapr? Pbhyq gurer or
nalguvat ryfr va yvsr? Be vf yvsr whfg yvxr gung, sbe rirelobql?"

Va cbvag bs snpg, fur urefrys qvq abg xabj gung ure urneg unq arire
fcbxra. Fur unq snyyra va ybir jvgu Ina qre Jrypxr, ng Ebzr, orpnhfr bs
uvf tbbq ybbxf, va gung ngzbfcurer bs inavgl naq qenjvat-ebbz pbzrql
juvpu unq znqr ure, nsgre ernqvat n pbhcyr bs snfuvbanoyr Serapu abiryf,
gnyx fnqyl nobhg ure fbhy-jrnevarff, cneebg-jvfr, arvgure xabjvat abe
srryvat nhtug bs jung fur fnvq. Fur arire rira gubhtug gung gurer jnf
nabgure fbeg bs ybir guna gung juvpu fur unq sryg sbe Ina qre Jrypxr;
naq, vs fur unccrarq gb ernq nobhg vg fbzrjurer va bar bs ure bppnfvbany
svgf bs ernqvat, fur jbhyq guvax:

"Vg'f bayl n obbx; naq gur nhgube vf jevgvat svar jbeqf."

Ohg, ng gur fnzr gvzr, ure tragyr angher jnf gbb fhcreyngviryl naq
rkdhvfvgryl srzvavar naq nyfb gbb zbgureyl gb ybbx hcba culfvpny ybir nf
gur bayl arrqshy guvat. Ab, jung fur unq sryg nf n qhgl va gur pnfr bs
ure svefg uhfonaq naq nf cnffvba va gur pnfr bs Ina qre Jrypxr unq fbba
ghearq gb zbgure-ybir. Zneevrq, va ure cnffvba fur unq ng bapr ybatrq
sbe n puvyq. Naq fur unq jbefuvccrq ure puvyq sebz gur irel svefg
qnl....




PUNCGRE KKKIV


Pbafgnapr jnf va ure orqebbz bar zbeavat, neenatvat nyy fbegf bs guvatf,
jura gur freinag pnzr naq fnvq:

"Zef. ina Fnrgmrzn vf urer, zn'nz."

Pbafgnapr' rlrynfurf gerzoyrq naq ure yvcf pbagenpgrq. Fur jbhyq unir
yvxrq gb znxr na rkphfr, gb fnl gung fur jnf abg ng ubzr; ohg fur
ersenvarq orpnhfr bs gur znvq:

"Irel jryy, Gehvgwr; nfx ure gb pbzr hc."

Nqbycuvar pnzr hcfgnvef abvfvyl, jvgu rynobengr tnvrgl:

"Tbbq-zbeavat, Pbafgnapr, ubj ner lbh? Jr uneqyl rire frr lbh abj. V
fnl, unir lbh orra vyy?"

"Ab."

"Lbh ner abg ybbxvat jryy. Jul vf vg fb qnex va urer?"

"Qnex?"

"Lrf, V fubhyq srry fgvsyrq va n yvtug yvxr guvf. Bu, bs pbhefr, vg'f
gur gerrf bccbfvgr! Gurl gnxr njnl nyy gur yvtug. Zl tbbqarff, guvf vf n
tybbzl ubhfr bs lbhef V Nera'g lbhe uhfonaq naq obl onpx lrg?"

"Ab."

"V fnl, jul qvqa'g lbh tb jvgu gurz?"

"Sbe ab fcrpvny ernfba."

"Gurl'er n irel cnegvphyne byq pbhcyr, nera'g gurl, gung sngure naq
zbgure bs lbhe uhfonaq'f? Jungrire ner lbh qbvat?"

"V'z gvqlvat hc zl phcobneq."

"Lbh'q qb orggre gb tb sbe n jnyx: lbh'er ybbxvat fb cnyr."

"Ohg V'z cresrpgyl jryy."

"V'ir pbzr gb nfx vs lbh'yy pbzr gb qvaare ng zl ubhfr gur qnl nsgre
gb-zbeebj. Ohg lbh zhfg znxr lbhefrys fzneg. Jr funyy or sbhegrra. Zl
svefg qvaare-cnegl. Vg'f n fhzzre qvaare. Ohg jr xabj fhpu na njshy ybg
bs crbcyr; naq V nyjnlf ortva zl qvaaref irel rneyl. Lbh frr, vg'f dhvgr
cynva, ng zl cynpr, ohg wbyyl. Oregun qbrfa'g ortva gvyy Wnahnel; ohg
fur jbexf rirelguvat bhg fb pybfryl. V yvxr qbvat guvatf unaqfbzryl. Fb
vg'f frggyrq, vfa'g vg: lbh'yy pbzr?"

"V'z fbeel, Nqbycuvar. Vg'f irel avpr bs lbh gb nfx zr, ohg V pna'g
pbzr."

"Jul abg?"

"V qba'g xabj lbhe sevraqf. Naq V qba'g pner nobhg tbvat bhg."

"Bu!" fnvq Nqbycuvar, arggyrq. "V fhccbfr zl sevraqf ner abg fzneg
rabhtu sbe lbh? V pna gryy lbh, V unir gur Uvwqerpugf pbzvat naq gur
Rexraobhgf naq gur...."

"V'z abg fnlvat nalguvat nobhg lbhe sevraqf, ohg V qba'g pner sbe
qvaare-cnegvrf."

"Naq lbh tvir gurz lbhefrys!"

"V?"

"Lrf, nf V fnj sbe zlfrys abg fb ybat ntb."

"V qba'g tvir qvaare-cnegvrf. V unir Ina Ierrfjvwpx gb qvaare abj naq
ntnva."

"Gb qvaare ... jvgu cvax pnaqyrf ba gur gnoyr?"

"Lrf, jvgu cvax pnaqyrf."

"Jryy, vs lbh qba'g jnag gb pbzr ... guvf vf n serr pbhagel...."

"Sbeghangryl!"

"Lbh'er engure hcfrg guvf zbeavat, nera'g lbh?"

"Abg ng nyy."

"Vf vg whfg orpnhfr bhe oblf unq n svtug? Lbh'ir nqbcgrq dhvgr n
qvssrerag gbar gb zr fvapr: V'ir abgvprq. _V_ pna'g uryc vg vs oblf
pubbfr gb svtug."

"Nqbycuvar, qba'g yrg hf gnyx bs znggref gung pna znxr hf fnl guvatf
juvpu jr zvtug erterg."

Ohg Nqbycuvar jnf natel orpnhfr Pbafgnapr unq ershfrq gb pbzr gb ure
qvaare. Ure vaivgngvbaf unq nyy tbar jebat naq fur jnagrq Pbafgnapr;
nyfb, fur gubhtug gung Pbafgnapr qvq abg inyhr gur vaivgngvba; nyfb, fur
gubhtug Pbafgnapr n fabo, jvgu gung rireynfgvat Ierrfjvwpx bs uref, gung
Pbheg zna....

"Erterg?" fur fnvq, pbyqyl. "V arire fnl nalguvat gung V unir gb erterg.
Ohg V pna'g uryc vg vs crbcyr ng gur Unthr ner fnlvat hacyrnfnag guvatf
nobhg hf nyy whfg abj!"

Naq, jbexvat urefrys vagb n fgngr bs areibhf rkpvgrzrag, fur gevrq gb
pel, va beqre gb znxr Pbafgnapr, jub jnf fb haxvaq, srry, bapr naq sbe
nyy, gung abg bayl fur, Nqbycuvar, ohg gur jubyr snzvyl unq gb fhssre ab
raq bs cnva orpnhfr bs Pbafgnapr. Naq fur znantrq gb trg gur grnef vagb
ure rlrf naq fdhrrmrq gurz bhg.

Ohg Pbafgnapr erznvarq vaqvssrerag:

"Jung fbeg bs guvatf?" fur nfxrq.

"Jung fbeg bs guvatf?" fanccrq Nqbycuvar, shevbhfyl, pelvat jvgu grzcre,
bssraqrq ng gur ershfny, sbetrggvat nyy gur avpr guvatf gung Pbafgnapr
unq fnvq nobhg Sybbegwr'f gebhffrnh, ungvat ure fvfgre ng gur zbzrag.
"Jung fbeg bs guvatf? Gung lbh ner abg Cncn'f qnhtugre!"

"Gung V...?"

"Gung lbh ner abg Cncn'f qnhtugre!" fuevrxrq gur bgure, trggvat zber
rkpvgrq ng rirel jbeq, qryvorengryl fperjvat urefrys hc vagb n seraml bs
areirf. "Gurl'er fynaqrevat Znzzn, gurl'er fynaqrevat Znzzn! Lrf,
gurl'er fnlvat gung lbh'er abg Cncn'f qnhtugre!"

Pbafgnapr fuehttrq ure fubhyqref.

"Jryy, jung qb lbh fnl gb vg?" qrznaqrq Nqbycuvar.

"Abguvat."

"Abguvat? Abguvat?" pevrq Nqbycuvar, orfvqr urefrys orpnhfr Pbafgnapr
erznvarq fb pbby ng fhpu n eriryngvba. "Abguvat? Bu, V rkcrpg lbh'er
npphfgbzrq gb unir crbcyr gnyxvat nobhg lbh. Jryy, V'z abg, q'lbh frr? V
unir nyjnlf orra hfrq gb qrprapl naq erfcrpgnovyvgl va zl pvepyr, nzbat
zl sevraqf. Ab bar rire gnyxrq nobhg hf orsber. Ab bar rire fnvq gung
_V_ jnfa'g Cncn'f qnhtugre...."

"Lbh pna'g gryy. Gurer'f gvzr lrg!" fnvq Pbafgnapr.

"Lrf, lbh qba'g pner!" Nqbycuvar oyhoorerq, shevbhfyl. "Lbh, jvgu lbhe
fghpx-hc pbbyarff, lbh'er fb rngra hc jvgu pbaprvg gung lbh qba'g gnxr
nalguvat gb urneg. V'z abg yvxr gung. V'z frafvgvir, V'z rnfvyl
nssrpgrq, vg uhegf zr jura crbcyr gnyx nobhg hf. Ohg gura V'z abg hfrq
gb vg nf lbh ner!"

Naq Nqbycuvar xrcg fdhrrmvat gur grnef bhg bs ure rlrf, jvfuvat gb
pbairl gung fur jnf zvfhaqrefgbbq naq zvfwhqtrq naq irel frafvgvir;
jvfuvat nyfb gb znxr Pbafgnapr srry gung vg jnf Pbafgnapr' snhyg naq
gung gurer jnf cyragl zber gung jnf Pbafgnapr' snhyg. Pbafgnapr,
ubjrire, erznvarq pbby.

Gubhtu n fvatyr hasbeghangr jbeq sebz ure uhfonaq jnf rabhtu gb frg ure
areirf ba rqtr naq ure grzcre frrguvat, fur xrcg pnyz naq pbyq gbjneqf
ure fvfgre, orpnhfr, nsgre gur svtug orgjrra gurve oblf, fur unq frggyrq
nppbhagf jvgu Nqbycuvar, jevggra ure bss nf vg jrer; naq guvf srryvat
unq qrcerffrq ure gbb zhpu gb nyybj ure abj gb rkpvgr urefrys vagb n
dhneery. Fur jbaqrerq vs fur jnf bireqbvat vg; naq, gb frggyr gur
znggre, fur fnvq:

"V pbasrff gung V unir arire unq fhpu na rkcrevrapr bs onpxovgvat nf
urer, ng gur Unthr; va Oehffryf, ng nal engr, ab bar rire qbhogrq gur
yrtvgvznpl bs zl puvyq. Ohg urer--naq rira va lbhe ubhfr,
Nqbycuvar--crbcyr frrz gb guvax gung ur vf abg zl uhfonaq'f fba."

"Ubj pna V uryc gung?" Nqbycuvar ortna gb oyhoore.

"Ab, lbh pna'g uryc vg; ng yrnfg V'z cercnerq gb oryvrir lbh pna'g. Ohg
V qvq ubcr gung, vs nal bar va lbhe ubhfr fcbxr haxvaqyl bs lbhe fvfgre,
lbh jbhyq unir fgbbq hc sbe ure, ntnvafg lbhe puvyqera, jub creuncf qvq
abg dhvgr ernyvmr nyy gur zvfpuvrs juvpu gurve jbeqf zvtug pnhfr.... Yrg
zr svavfu, Nqbycuvar: V nz dhvgr pnyz naq V jnag gb gryy lbh guvf
pnyzyl.... Vs Nqqvr unq qnerq gb fcrnx bs lbh va zl cerfrapr nf lbhe
puvyqera zhfg unir fcbxra bs zr, V fubhyq unir orra irel frirer jvgu
uvz. V jnf haqre gur vyyhfvba gung V zvtug rkcrpg nf zhpu sebz lbh. V
gubhtug gung gurer jnf fgvyy n snzvyl-obaq, n snzvyl-nssrpgvba, n
snzvyl-cevqr nzbat nyy bs hf; V gubhtug gung gurer jnf n zhghny flzcngul
nzbat hf terng rabhtu, rira gubhtu gurer jnf na nccrnenapr bs gehgu va
crbcyr'f fynaqref, sbe gung flzcngul naq cevqr gb rkphfr naq cebgrpg naq
qrsraq gur bar jub jnf fynaqrerq. Gur guvatf gung pna or fnvq nobhg zr
ner ab frperg. Gurl ner n znggre bs trareny xabjyrqtr; naq V pneel gur
chavfuzrag sbe zl fva nobhg jvgu zr nf n oheqra ba zl yvsr. Ohg V unir
abguvat zber gb ercebnpu zlfrys jvgu guna jung vf xabja nf n snpg. Qba'g
guvax gung V nz znxvat yvtug bs vg. V bayl fnl gung gung vf nyy gurer
vf. V fubhyq unir gubhtug gung lbh jbhyq unir xabja guvf, gung lbh jbhyq
unir oryvrirq guvf, rira vs V unq arire gbyq lbh. Nqqvr vf Ina qre
Jrypxr'f fba nf fheryl nf V nz Cncn'f qnhtugre. Jung crbcyr yvxr gb
vairag orfvqrf vf ab pbaprea bs zvar. V pna'g rira haqrefgnaq jul gurl
pner gb vairag ng nyy, jura V unir nyernql tvira gurz fb zhpu gung vf
gehr gb qvfphff. Ohg vg jnf n terng qvfnccbvagzrag gb zr, Nqbycuvar, gb
svaq gung gubfr yvrf pbhyq or pbhagranaprq sbe n zbzrag va lbhe ubhfr."

Nqbycuvar, frrvat gung ure chzcrq-hc grnef jrer znxvat ab vzcerffvba,
unq gvzr gb erpbire urefrys juvyr Pbafgnapr jnf fcrnxvat. Vajneqyl
shevbhf, ohg fhcresvpvnyyl pnyz, fur abj fnvq, fcvgrshyyl, va n gbar bs
fvfgreyl ercebbs:

"Lbh zhfg unir rkcrpgrq fbzr qvfnccbvagzrag ba ergheavat gb gur Unthr?"

"Creuncf, ohg abg guvf qvfnccbvagzrag ... vs lbh unq unq nal nssrpgvba
sbe zr."

"Pbzr, Pbafgnapr, vg'f abg nf vs V jnfa'g sbaq bs lbh. Ohg vg zvtug unir
orra orggre vs lbh unq abg pbzr onpx."

"Vg'f n yvggyr yngr gb fcrnx bs gung abj, Nqbycuvar: V'z urer naq V zrna
gb fgnl. Jura V jebgr gb Znzzn fvk zbaguf ntb...."

"Znzzn vf n zbgure."

"V gubhtug gung lbh jrer n fvfgre."

"V nz abg gur bayl bar."

"V ubcr gung gur bguref srry zber nssrpgvba sbe zr naq zber vaqhytrapr
guna lbh qb."

"Oregun jnf ntnvafg lbhe pbzvat. Fb jnf Xnery."

"V gunax lbh sbe gryyvat zr; ohg, nf V fnvq, vg vf gbb yngr abj."

"Treevg naq gur bguref qba'g pbhag, orpnhfr gurl qba'g frr crbcyr.
Oregun naq Xnery naq V unir bhe snzvyl, bhe sevraqf."

"Naq V pbzcebzvfr lbh va gurve rlrf, qb V?"

"Lbhe pbzvat urer enxrq hc n urnc bs guvatf juvpu unq orra ybat
sbetbggra. Naq V xabj nf n snpg gung lbhe sngure- naq zbgure-va-ynj jrer
ntnvafg vg."

"Lbh frrz gb xabj n terng qrny; naq V nz tynq gung lbh ner fb senax."

"V nz nyjnlf senax."

"Naq fb veercebnpunoyr."

"V pbhyq arire unir qbar jung lbh qvq, arire."

"V nz fb tynq gung lbh pnzr gb frr zr guvf zbeavat, Nqbycuvar. Naq gung
jr unir unq guvf dhvrg gnyx."

"Vs lbh unq jevggra gb zr ng gur gvzr naq nfxrq zl nqivpr, vafgrnq bs
jevgvat gb Znzzn bayl, V fubhyq unir gbyq lbh zl bcvavba dhvrgyl," fnvq
Nqbycuvar, jvgu n gbhpu bs fnqarff va ure ibvpr. "V fubhyq unir
erpbzzraqrq lbh, nf n fvfgre, sbe lbhe bja fnxr, abg gb pbzr onpx gb gur
Unthr. Lbh unir orpbzr dhvgr hafhvgrq sbe Ubyynaq, sbe gur Unthr naq sbe
yvivat nzbat lbhe snzvyl. Rirelguvat va lbhe vqrnf, va lbhe ubzr yvsr,
va lbhe jnl bs oevatvat hc lbhe fba pynfurf jvgu bhe Qhgpu abgvbaf bs
jung vf evtug naq qrprag naq cebcre. V'z abg fnlvat guvf natevyl, lbh
xabj, Pbafgnapr: V'z fnlvat vg pnyzyl, irel pnyzyl. V qnerfnl gung vf
orfg. Lbh qerff lbhefrys nf ab Qhgpujbzna bs lbhe ntr jbhyq guvax bs
qbvat. Gur snpg gung lbh unir ab bar gb lbhe ubhfr rkprcg n sevraq bs
lbhe uhfonaq'f pnhfrf pbzzrag. Gur jnl va juvpu lbh oevat hc lbhe fba vf
pbafvqrerq rkprcgvbanyyl ynk."

"Nalguvat zber?"

"Lrf, gurer'f fbzrguvat zber: jul qvq lbh rire yrnir Oehffryf? Gung'f
jung jr nyy nfx bhefryirf. Oregun jnf fnlvat, bayl gur bgure qnl, gung
lbh jbhyq znxr guvatf vzcbffvoyr sbe ure, vs lbh gubhtug bs chfuvat
lbhefrys naq trggvat lbhefrys cerfragrq. Naq fur qrpynerq cbfvgviryl
gung fur jbhyq arire nfx lbh gb ure bssvpvny qvaaref."

"Nalguvat zber?"

"Nalguvat zber, nalguvat zber: jung zber qb lbh jnag? V'z abg fnlvat vg
gb bssraq lbh, Pbafgnapr, ohg orpnhfr V yvxr lbh naq jnag gb fnir lbh
sebz shegure qvfnccbvagzragf. Qb lbh guvax vg cyrnfnag sbe Oregun naq zr
gb unir bhe sevraqf gnyxvat nobhg bhe snzvyl nf gurl ner qbvat? Naq gung
gurl qb fb vf lbhe snhyg ragveryl."

Pbafgnapr' unaqf jrer funxvat; naq, va beqre gb rzcybl gurz, fur ortna
gb sbyq gur ynprf ylvat ba gur gnoyr.

"Vf gung erny Oehffryf?" nfxrq Nqbycuvar, jvgu nccnerag thvyryrffarff.

"Lrf."

"Jurer qb lbh trg gur zbarl, Pbafgnapr, gb fcraq ba gubfr rkcrafvir
guvatf?"

"V trg vg sebz zl ybiref," fnvq Pbafgnapr.

"Jun-ng?" pevrq Nqbycuvar, va n greevsvrq ibvpr.

Pbafgnapr tnir n areibhf ynhtu:

"V gryy lbh, sebz nyy zl ybiref."

"Bu, qba'g fnl guvatf yvxr gung, rira va sha! V gubhtug vg jnf vzvgngvba
ynpr."

"Lrf, ohg lbh qba'g xabj zhpu nobhg ynpr, qb lbh?" fnvq Pbafgnapr, irel
pnyzyl. "Be nobhg qvnzbaqf? Naq lbh unir abg gur yrnfg abgvba ubj gb
qerff lbhefrys, unir lbh? V fbzrgvzrf guvax lbh ybbx irel qbjql,
Nqbycuvar. Vg znl or Qhgpu naq fhofgnagvny, ohg V pbafvqre vg qbjql.
Naq, ba gur bgure unaq, lbh bhtuga'g gb ohl fhpu ehoovful,
funool-tragrry guvatf nf lbh qb. Naq lbh unira'g zhpu abgvba bs
neenatvat lbhe ubhfr, rvgure, unir lbh? Vs lbh jrer pncnoyr bs
haqrefgnaqvat zl gnfgr, V jbhyqa'g zvaq urycvat lbh gb nygre lbhe
qenjvat-ebbz. Ohg lbh jbhyq unir gb ortva ol trggvat evq bs gubfr
ubeevoyr nagvznpnffnef naq gubfr puvan zbaxrlf naq qbtf. Qb; V jvfu lbh
jbhyq. Naq pubbfr n dhvrgre pnecrg.... Qba'g lbh svaq gubfr qvaaref irel
gelvat, Nqbycuvar? V fubhyq fnl gung Oregun vf zber ng ubzr va gung fbeg
bs guvat, vfa'g fur?... Naq fb gur Rexraobhgf tb gb lbhe qvaaref, qb
gurl? V fubhyq unir gubhtug gung Oehvf, bs gur _Sbabtenns_, jnf zber va
lbhe frg. Ohg V jnf sbetrggvat: lbh unira'g n frg, ernyyl; lbh unir n
ovg bs rirelguvat, na bzavhz tngurehz.... Phevbhf, vfa'g vg, gung abar
bs bhe sevraqf bs gur byq qnlf--bhe yvggyr Pbheg frg, yrg zr pnyy
vg--rire pbzr gb lbh abjnqnlf? Jung'f gur ernfba?... Bs pbhefr, lbh unir
gb znxr lbhe ubhfr nggenpgvir, vs lbh jnag gb xrrc lbhe
npdhnvagnaprf.... V fhccbfr lbh qba'g pner ernyyl nobhg frrvat crbcyr.
Vg'f fhpu uneq jbex sbe lbh.... Lbh'er zber gur tbbq zbgure bs lbhe
puvyqera, gubhtu V pbafvqre lbhe tveyf, ng yrnfg Sybbegwr naq Pnebyvar,
engure ybhq; naq, nf sbe lbhe oblf, lbh frrz dhvgr hanoyr gb grnpu gurz
nal fbeg bs znaaref.... Jryy, vs V pna or bs nal hfr gb lbh, vs lbh jnag
gb nygre gung qenjvat-ebbz bs lbhef, lbh unir bayl gb fnl fb naq jr jvyy
svk n qnl...."

Nqbycuvar unq yvfgrarq tnfcvat, hanoyr gb oryvrir ure rnef. Unq
Pbafgnapr tbar znq? Fur fgbbq hc, funxvat nyy bire, juvyr Pbafgnapr,
jvgu nccnerag pbzcbfher, pbagvahrq gb sbyq ure ynprf:

"Lbh'er n qrprvgshy perngher!" fur uvffrq, shevbhf, fb qrrcyl jbhaqrq va
rirel qrgnvy bs ure inavgl gung fur pbhyq ab ybatre pbageby urefrys.

"Jul?" nfxrq Pbafgnapr, pnyzyl. "Creuncf V jnf, sbe zbaguf, jvgu n ivrj
gb jvaavat lbhe nssrpgvba; naq gung jnf jul V fcrag zlfrys va cenvfrf
nqzvevat Sybbegwr'f gebhffrnh. Ohg abj gung V xabj gung lbh ybir zr fb
jryy, abj gung jr unir unq n tbbq, fvfgreyl gnyx, abj gung jr unir tvira
rnpu bgure bhe nqivpr naq bhe bcvavba, V frr ab shegure arrq sbe orvat
qrprvgshy naq V gbb cersre gb rkcerff zl fvfgreyl srryvatf jvgu gur
senaxrfg fvaprevgl."

"Qb lbh zrna gb fnl lbh qvqa'g yvxr Sybbegwr'f gebhffrnh?" nfxrq
Nqbycuvar, entvat.

Ohg Pbafgnapr znfgrerq ure dhvirevat areirf:

"Nqbycuvar," fur fnvq, pbyqyl, "cyrnfr yrg hf raq guvf pbairefngvba. Vg
pna'g znggre gb lbh va gur yrnfg jurgure V, lbhe qrfcvfrq fvfgre, yvxr
be qvfyvxr nalguvat va be nobhg lbh. Fcvgrshy, ungrshy jbeqf unir orra
fcbxra orgjrra hf; naq jr unir frra vagb rnpu bgure'f fbhyf. Lbh arire
unq nal nssrpgvba sbe zr, abe nal vaqhytrapr abe zrepl, jurernf V
oryvrirq gung lbh unq naq gevrq gb svaq n fvfgre va lbh. V snvyrq; naq
gung vf nyy. Gurer vf abguvat zber. Jr jvyy raq guvf pbairefngvba, vs
lbh cyrnfr; naq, vs lbh qba'g zvaq, jura jr zrrg ng Znzzn'f be
ryfrjurer, yrg hf npg nf gubhtu gurer unq orra abguvat fnvq orgjrra hf.
Gung vf nyy V nfx bs lbh."

Fur enat. Gur cneybhe-znvq nccrnerq. Nqbycuvar fgbbq fgnevat ng
Pbafgnapr; naq ure yvcf ortna gb fjryy jvgu gur irabz bs gur jbeqf juvpu
fur sryg evfvat gb ure yvcf.

"Vg'f gb yrg Zef. ina Fnrgmrzn bhg, Gehvgwr," fnvq Pbafgnapr, dhvrgyl.




PUNCGRE KKKIVV


Pbafgnapr, jura fur jnf nybar, ohefg vagb n svg bs areibhf fboovat....
Bu, gung cnfg, gung jergpurq cnfg, juvpu nyjnlf pyhat gb ure, juvpu
gurer jnf ab funxvat bss! Fur gubhtug yvsr hawhfg naq gur snzvyl naq
rirelobql. Fur jnf abg n jvpxrq jbzna: gurer jnf bayl bar zvfgnxr gb or
punetrq ntnvafg ure, gur zvfgnxr bs ure urrqyrff lbhgu; naq jrer gur
pbafrdhraprf gb ynfg sbe rire?... Nsgre nyy, jung fur abj jvfurq jnf fb
yvggyr, fb irel yvggyr, gung fur pbhyq abg haqrefgnaq jul vg erznvarq fb
hanggnvanoyr. Fur zreryl nfxrq gb yvir dhvrgyl ng gur Unthr, va ure bja
pbhagel, naq gb or ybirq n yvggyr ol nyy ure eryngvbaf, sbe jubz fur
sryg gung fgenatr, cbjreshy srryvat, gung snzvyl-nssrpgvba. Gung jnf
nyy; fur nfxrq sbe abguvat zber. Fur qrznaqrq abguvat zber bs yvsr guna
gb or nyybjrq gb tebj byq yvxr gung, jvgu n yvggyr sbetvirarff naq
sbeornenapr nebhaq ure, naq gura gb frr ure obl tebj hc vagb n zna,
juvyr fur, sbe gur obl'f fnxr, jbhyq raqher ure yvsr, nf orfg fur pbhyq,
ol gur fvqr bs ure uhfonaq. Gung jnf nyy, gung jnf nyy. Gung jnf gur
bayl guvat gung fur, jvgu ure fznyy fbhy, nfxrq bs yvsr; naq fur nfxrq
abguvat zber; naq vg jnf nf gubhtu nyy fbegf bs frperg razvgvrf nebhaq
ure tehqtrq vg gb ure. Jurernf fur jvfurq sbe abguvat ohg crnpr naq
dhvrgarff, razvgl frrzrq gb rqql nebhaq ure. Jul qvq crbcyr ungr ure fb?
Naq jul pbhyq gurl abg znxr fbzrobql ryfr be fbzrguvat ryfr gur fhowrpg
bs gurve gnyx, bs gurve fcvgrshy, znyribyrag gnyx, vs gurl ernyyl sbhaq
vg vzcbffvoyr gb qb jvgubhg gnyxvat?

Fur pbagvahrq terngyl qvfcvevgrq sbe qnlf, jrag bhg irel yvggyr, frrvat
bayl ure zbgure, gb jubfr ubhfr fur jrag erthyneyl. Cnhy jnf noebnq; naq
Nqryvar jnf rkcrpgvat ure pbasvarzrag. Zef. ina Ybjr abgvprq abguvat bs
jung jnf gebhoyvat Pbafgnapr; naq, jura, ba Fhaqnl, gur zrzoref bs gur
snzvyl nyy zrg ntnva, gur byq jbzna jnf enqvnag va gur vyyhfvba bs gurve
terng nggnpuzrag gb bar nabgure. Gur puvyqera nyjnlf xrcg ure va
vtabenapr bs gurve qvfchgrf, xrcg ure, bhg bs ybir naq erfcrpg, va ure
qrne vyyhfvba. Nqbycuvar arire fcbxr pnggvfuyl bs Oregun, va Znzzn'f
cerfrapr; jnf nzvnoyr gb Pbafgnapr. Gur byq ynql xarj abguvat bs gur
dhneery orgjrra Nqqvr naq Wnnc, abguvat bs gur rkcynangvba juvpu Ina qre
Jrypxr unq qrznaqrq sebz gur Ina Fnrgmrznf.

Jura ure uhfonaq naq Nqqvr erghearq, Pbafgnapr fcbxr pnfhnyyl bs ure
pbairefngvba jvgu Nqbycuvar. Ohg, sbe gur erfg, fur erznvarq irel fvyrag
naq fbyvgnel naq bayl fnj Znzzn naq, whfg bapr, Nqryvar, gur dhvrg
yvggyr zbgure, rkcrpgvat ure rvtugu puvyq. Naq bapr fur jrag jvgu ure
zbgure gb pnyy ba gur byq nhagf va gurve yvggyr ivyyn arne Fpuriravatra;
naq gura vg jnf:

"Ubj ner lbh, Qbevar?"

"Jung qb lbh fnl?"

"Znevr nfxf ubj lbh ner, Evar. Fur _vf_ fb qrns, Znevr."

"Bu, V'z nyy evtug.... Jub'f gung?"

Naq Nhag Qbevar cbvagrq gb Pbafgnapr, nyjnlf snvyvat gb erpbtavmr ure,
jvgu gur fghoobeaarff bs frpbaq puvyqubbq.

"Gung'f Pbafgnapr," fnvq Zef. Ina Ybjr.

"Gung'f Tregehqr!" Nhagvr Gvar jbhyq fnl arkg. "Vfa'g vg, Znevr? Gung'f
Tregehqr!"

"Ab, Puevfgvar, Tregehqr qvrq nf n puvyq ng Ohvgrambet."

Ohg Nhagvr Gvar jnf lryyvat va Nhagvr Evar'f rne:

"Gung'f Znevr'f qnhtugre!"

"Znevr'f qnhtugre?"

"Lrf, Tregehqr, Tregeh-h-hqr!"

Pbafgnapr fzvyrq:

"Arire zvaq, Znzzn," fur juvfcrerq.

Naq Znzzn fnvq tbbq-olr:

"Jryy, tbbq-olr, Qbevar naq Puevfgvar."

"Jung q'lbh fnl?"

"Tbbq-olr, Qbevar naq Puevfgvar; jr zhfg tb."

"Gurl'ir tbg gb tb!" lryyrq Nhagvr Gvar va Nhagvr Evar'f rne.

"Bu, unir gurl tbg gb tb? Jurer ner gurl tbvat?"

"Ubzr!"

"Bu, ubzr? Bu, qba'g gurl yvir urer?... Jryy, tbbq-olr, Znevr; gunaxf
sbe lbhe ivfvg. Tbbq-olr, Tregehqr! Lbh ner Tregehqr, nera'g lbh?"

"Lr-r-rf!" Nhagvr Gvar nffherq ure, va n fuevyy, ybat-qenja-bhg lryy.
"Fur'f Tre-gehqr, Znevr'f qnhtu-gre."

"Jryy, gura, tbbq-olr, Tregehqr."

"Arire zvaq, Znzzn, yrg gurz guvax V'z Tregehqr," fnvq Pbafgnapr,
fbsgyl, vaqhytragyl, juvyr Zef. ina Ybjr orpnzr n yvggyr veevgnoyr, abg
haqrefgnaqvat ubj irel byq crbcyr pbhyq pyvat fb fghoobeayl gb na
bcvavba naq n yvggyr fnq ng gur gubhtug bs Tregehqr, jub jnf qrnq.

Naq fb gur jrrxf cnffrq naq gur zbaguf, irel dhvrgyl, ybaryl naq
zbabgbabhfyl: gur qernel zbaguf bs gur hafrnfbanoyr pbyq, jrg nhghza,
jvgu urnil fgbezf juvccvat gur gerrf va gur Xrexubsynna, gur jvaq
vaprffnagyl ubjyvat ebhaq gur ubhfr, gur enva pynggrevat qbja. Pbafgnapr
uneqyl rire jrag bhg, fuhg urefrys hc vaqbbef, nf gubhtu ure fbhy unq
erprvirq n uheg, nf gubhtu fur jbhyq engure uraprsbejneq erznva fnsr va
ure qrne ebbzf. Fur jnf irel fvyrag, fur ybbxrq cnyr, fur bsgra fng
guvaxvat, cbaqrevat--fur uneqyl xarj jung--fhax va ure zrynapubyl,
fgnevat ng gur shel bs gur fgbez bhgfvqr. Fur qvq abg bsgra unir fprarf
jvgu Ina qre Jrypxr abj, nf gubhtu n oebbqvat fnqarff unq ahzorq ure
areirf. Ng unys-cnfg sbhe, fur jbhyq tb gb gur jvaqbj naq jngpu
ybatvatyl sbe ure fba, jbhyq purre hc n yvggyr jura fur fnj uvz, jura ur
gnyxrq avpryl naq cyrnfnagyl, ure obl jub jnf orpbzvat zber bs n zna
qnvyl. Ohg fur qvq abg frr irel zhpu bs uvz abj gung ur jrag gb gur
tenzzne-fpubby naq unq n ybg bs jbex gb qb va gur riravatf, juvpu,
fghqvbhf ol angher, ur qvq pbafpvragvbhfyl. Ina Ierrfjvwpx pnzr gb
qvaare bapr rirel gjb be guerr jrrxf, trarenyyl nybar, be creuncf, nf
Cnhy jnf fgvyy noebnq, fur jbhyq nfx Znevnaar ina Antury, bs jubz fur
jnf irel sbaq. Vg jbhyq or bar bs gubfr pbfl, qnvagvyl-neenatrq yvggyr
qvaaref juvpu fur xarj fb jryy ubj gb tvir; naq gung jnf gur rkgrag bs
ure fbpvny qbvatf.

Guhf fur yvirq va urefrys naq va ure ubhfr. Gur ebbzf va juvpu fur fng
nyjnlf ersyrpgrq urefrys, n jbzna bs ryrtnag naq ersvarq gnfgr, rira
gubhtu fur jnf abg rknpgyl negvfgvp; naq gubfr ebbzf qvfcynlrq va
cnegvphyne gur vaunovgrq, fbpvnoyr, ubzr-yvxr nccrnenapr gung pbzrf sebz
gur cerfrapr bs n jbzna jub vf zhpu vaqbbef naq svaqf fbynpr va ure
ubzr. Naq ebhaq nobhg ure gur yvarf naq pbybhef bs ure sheavgher naq
sybjref, ure xavpxanpxf naq snapl-jbex nyy znqr na ngzbfcurer bs fbsg
sentenapr crphyvneyl ure bja, jvgu fbzrguvat irel crefbany, fbzrguvat
qryvpngr naq vagvzngr: n fbsg qernzvarff nf bs ernyyl irel fznyy, fvzcyr
srzvavavgl, jvgubhg bar ernyyl negvfgvp bowrpg naljurer, jvgubhg n
fvatyr jngre-pbybhe be qenjvat be snfuvbanoyr abiry; naq lrg jvgu
abguvat va pbybhe be sbez be yvar gung pbhyq bssraq gur rlr bs na
negvfg: ba gur pbagenel, rirelguvat oyraqvat vagb n cresrpg unezbal bs
fznyy zngrevny guvatf jvgu vaare crefbany guvatf gung yvxrjvfr unq ab
terngarff....

Bar qnl, jura Gehvgwr oebhtug ure fbzr pvephynef, yrggref naq ovyyf sebz
gur yrggre-obk, Pbafgnapr' rlr sryy hcba n arjfcncre va n jenccre; naq
fur bcrarq vg. Fur ernq gur gvgyr bs gur yvggyr furrg: gur
_Qjnefxvwxre;_[22] naq, nf fur fryqbz erprvirq zhpu ol cbfg, fur gubhtug
gung vg zhfg unir orra frag nf na nqiregvfrzrag. Fhqqrayl, ubjrire, fur
erzrzorerq: gur _Qjnefxvwxre_ jnf na bqvbhf yvggyr jrrxyl cncre rqvgrq
ol n qvferchgnoyr vaqvivqhny jub cevrq vagb nyy gur frpergf bs gur terng
Unthr snzvyvrf; jub unq bsgra orra gevrq sbe oynpxznvy, ohg nyjnlf
znantrq gb rfpncr; naq jub nf pbafgnagyl erfhzrq uvf ivyr genqr, orpnhfr
gur snzvyvrf jubz ur nggnpxrq cnvq uhfu-zbarl, jurgure uvf nggnpxf jrer
onfrq ba gehgu be pnyhzal. Pbafgnapr jnf nobhg gb grne hc gur cncre
vaqvtanagyl, jura ure rlr pnhtug gur anzr bs Ina Ntury, n cnebql
boivbhfyl zrnag sbe Ina Antury, naq fur pbhyq abg uryc ernqvat ba. Fur
gura ernq n anfgl yvggyr negvpyr ntnvafg ure oebgure-va-ynj, gur
pbybavny frpergnel, na negvpyr penzzrq jvgu crefbany nggnpxf ba Ina
Antury, qrfpevovat uvz nf n terng abaragvgl, jub unq znqr zbarl ng gur
one va Vaqvn ol zrnaf bs n funql Puvarfr cenpgvpr naq unq orra fubirq ba
va uvf pnerre ol n fgvyy terngre naq zber cbzcbhf abaragvgl, uvf
sngure-va-ynj, gur rk-Tbireabe-trareny "Ina Yrrhjra." Gur negvpyr arkg
nggnpxrq Ina Antury'f oebgure, gur Dhrra'f Pbzzvffnel va Birevwffry,
naq, va pbapyhfvba, vg cebzvfrq, va n fhofrdhrag vffhr bs gur
_Qjnefxvwxre_ gb tvir n tyvzcfr vagb gur vzzbenyvgl bs gur bgure
eryngvbaf bs guvf _obhetrbvf_ jub unq onggrarq ba gur Puvarfr naq jub
unq eraqrerq ab erny freivpr gb Vaqvn. Naq gur jevgre nvzrq irel
cbvagrqyl ng Zef. ina Antury'f fvfgre, nabgure jbzna zbivat va gubfr
rknygrq pvepyrf jubfr raq jbhyq fbba or avtu va gur orggre beqre bs
guvatf ng unaq: fur jnf qrfpevorq nf gur "rk-nzonffnqerff;" naq ur jbhaq
hc jvgu gur nyyhevat cebzvfr gb tvir, arkg jrrx, shyy qrgnvyf bs gubfr
byq fgbevrf, juvpu jrer nyjnlf vagrerfgvat orpnhfr gurl nssbeqrq gur
ernqre n crrc vagb gur qrcenivgl bs nevfgbpengvp fbpvrgl.

Pbafgnapr, nf fur ernq ba, sryg ure urneg orngvat, gur oybbq ehfuvat gb
ure purrxf; ure unaqf gerzoyrq, ure xarrf fubbx, fur sryg nf gubhtu fur
jrer nobhg gb snvag. Fur jnf tebjvat npphfgbzrq gb beny fynaqre; ohg
gurfr jevggra, cevagrq negvpyrf, juvpu rirelobql pbhyq ernq, pnzr nf n
fubpx gb ure; naq, jvgu rlrf fgnegvat sebz gurve fbpxrgf, fur ernq gur
guvat bire naq bire ntnva. Fur jnf svyyrq jvgu urycyrff qrfcnve ng gur
gubhtug gung fhpu guvatf jrer orvat choyvfurq nobhg ure naq uref, gung
arkg jrrx zber guvatf jbhyq or cevagrq nobhg ure va gung yvoryybhf
cncre. Fur jnf ng ure jvgf' raq jung gb qb, jura, inthryl ebyyvat ure
greevsvrq rlrf, fur pnhtug fvtug, nzbat gur ovyyf naq pvephynef, bs
nabgure cncre, juvpu fnvq:

/$
                     "ABGVPR!!!
         "Jul abg orpbzr n fhofpevore gb gur
                _"QJNEFXVWXRE?_
              "Grezf bs fhofpevcgvba:
         "50 thvyqref dhnegreyl, cbfg-serr."
$/

Gur abgvpr jnf cevagrq va gur plavpny pncvgnyf bs oynpxznvy; naq fur ng
bapr haqrefgbbq; fur haqrefgbbq jung gung fhofpevcgvba bs gjb uhaqerq
thvyqref n lrne gb n fpheevybhf ent zrnag! Ohg fur nyfb haqrefgbbq gung,
rira vs fur frag gur svsgl thvyqref be gur gjb uhaqerq thvyqref gung
zbzrag, vg jbhyq or ab fnsrthneq ntnvafg shegure qrsnzngvba be
rkgbegvba; naq fur qvq abg xabj jung gb qb....

Fur ng svefg gubhtug bs pbaprnyvat gur cncre sebz Ina qre Jrypxr; ohg
fur jnf fb hcfrg nyy qnl gung, nsgre qvaare, jura Nqqvr unq tbar
hcfgnvef, fur fubjrq vg gb ure uhfonaq. Ur terj shevbhf ng bapr, tvivat
jnl gb uvf anghenyyl veevgnoyr grzcre, juvpu ur hfhnyyl xrcg haqre
pbageby fb nf abg gb unir gbb ivbyrag fprarf jvgu uvf jvsr. Ur fjber,
pyrapurq uvf svfgf, jnyxrq hc naq qbja gur ebbz va vzcbgrag entr,
ybatvat gb oernx fbzrguvat be gb tb bhg naq erivyr gur Unthr, vgf
fgerrgf naq vgf crbcyr. Gb uvz nyfb gur cevagrq yvory--rfcrpvnyyl
orpnhfr vg jnf cevagrq, sbe rirel bar gb ernq--jnf n greevoyr qvftenpr,
juvpu ur sryg gung ur jbhyq unir qbar nalguvat gb nibvq. Vg nyfb
bppheerq gb uvz gb tb gb gur bssvpr bs gur _Qjnefxvwxre_ naq ubefrjuvc
gur rqvgbe. Naq, jvgubhg ernyyl xabjvat jul be ubj, ur nyybjrq uvzfrys
gb hggre gung hacerzrqvgngrq, vyybtvpny cuenfr, gur cuenfr bs n anhtugl
puvyq juvpu qbrf abg fgbc gb guvax jura vgf grzcre vf ebhfrq:

"Vg'f nyy lbhe snhyg!"

"Zl snhyg!" fur rpubrq, irurzragyl. "Naq jul, va Urnira'f anzr? Jul vf
vg zl snhyg?"

"Vg'f lbhe snhyg! Lbh jbhyq pbzr naq yvir urer, jvgu gung zbeovq penivat
bs lbhef sbe lbhe snzvyl. Va Oehffryf, abobql xarj hf naq abobql gnyxrq
nobhg hf; naq bhe yvsr vs abg unccl, jnf ng yrnfg dhvrg. Urer gurer'f
nyjnlf fbzrguvat, nyjnlf fbzrguvat! Vg'f ab yvsr ng nyy, bhe yvsr urer!"

"Naq lbh, jrera'g lbh ybatvat gb pbzr onpx? Jnf V gur bayl bar jub
ybatrq?" fur pevrq, uheg ol uvf haernfbanoyrarff.

Ohg ur qvq abg urne ure; naq nyy uvf crag-hc ovggrearff ohefg sbegu:

"V jnyx nobhg gur fgerrgf urer rirel qnl, srryvat nf vs rirel bar jrer
ybbxvat ng zr naq cbvagvat ng zr! Jura V tb gb gur Jvggr be gur Cynngf,
nzbat nyy gur zra V hfrq gb xabj, V srry bhg bs cynpr, V srry yvxr na
vagreybcre jubz gurl qba'g jnag gb bja. Vg'f lbhe snhyg, vg'f lbhe
snhyg!"

"Vaqrrq!"

"Jul jrer lbh nofbyhgryl orag ba pbzvat onpx gb Ubyynaq?"

"Naq lbh?"

"V?"

"Lrf, lbh, lbh! Qvqa'g lbh fbzrgvzrf ybat sbe lbhe cneragf, sbe Ubyynaq!
Qvqa'g lbh lbhefrys fnl gung vg jbhyq or tbbq sbe bhe obl?"

"Sbe bhe obl!" ur fubhgrq, ershfvat gb yvfgra, va uvf vzcbgrag, frrguvat
entr. "Sbe bhe obl!"

Naq ur ynhturq zber ovggreyl, zber fpbeashyyl guna fur unq rire urneq
uvz orsber:

"Sbe bhe obl! N ybg V pna qb sbe uvz urer! Ubjrire uneq ur znl jbex,
jungrire gnpg ur znl fubj, rira gubhtu ur ragref gur pnerre juvpu V unq
gb nonaqba, ur jvyy nyjnlf, nyjnlf or erzvaqrq bs gur fpnaqny bs uvf
cneragf! Sbe bhe obl! Yrg uvz orpbzr n snezre, vs ur zhfg or n Qhgpuzna
va Ubyynaq, uvqqra fbzrjurer sebz nyy bhe snzvyl, bhe sevraqf naq bhe
npdhnvagnaprf! Naq vg'f nyy, nyy lbhe snhyg!"

"Lbh ner haernfbanoyr!" fur pevrq, jvapvat haqre uvf vafhygf. "Vs jr
unir nalguvat gb ercebnpu bhefryirf jvgu, gura vg snyyf hcba obgu bs hf;
naq lbh unir abg gur evtug gb yrg zr, zr, n jbzna, orne gur oheqra bs
bhe zvfrel nybar!"

"Gung zvfrel jbhyq ng yrnfg abg unir orra qvfphffrq, zbpxrq ng,
pevgvpvmrq, evqvphyrq, genqhprq," ur fubhgrq, entvat naq fgnzcvat, "vs
lbh unq abg vafvfgrq ba pbzvat onpx gb Ubyynaq!"

"Jnf V gur bayl bar gb jvfu vg?"

"Irel jryy," ur nqzvggrq, ybfvat nyy uvf frys-pbageby, "V qvq gbb. Ohg
jr jrer obgu sbbyf, gb erghea gb guvf ebggra pbhagel naq gurfr ebggra
crbcyr!"

"V qba'g arrq gurz. V bayl ybatrq sbe zl snzvyl."

"Sbe lbhe snzvyl! Gur Fnrgmrznf, jvgu jubz jr unir dhneeryyrq nyernql,
gb jubz jr arire fcrnx rkprcg ng Znzzn'f; gur Ina Anturyf, jub ner ab
hfr gb hf: vf gung ubj lbh jnag gb yvir, sbe lbhe obl, va Ubyynaq, urer,
ohevrq njnl va lbhe Xrexubsynna, va lbhe ubhfr, va lbhe ebbzf, jvgu ab
bar ohg Ierrfjvwpx, jub fbzrgvzrf qbrf hf gur ubabhe gb pbzr naq qvar
jvgu hf? Jubz qb jr xabj? Jub pbzrf gb frr hf? Jub pnerf n wbg nobhg
hf?"

"V bayl jnagrq gur nssrpgvba bs zl snzvyl!"

"Naq sbe gur fnxr bs gung nssrpgvba, qb lbh jnag gb tb ba yvivat urer
yvxr guvf, ohevrq njnl, jura lbh jnag lbhe obl gb chefhr uvf pnerre
yngre ba? Un, un, ur'yy tb sne, yvxr gung! Qb lbh vzntvar gung ur'yy
fhpprrq fvzcyl guebhtu rknzvangvbaf? Ab, vasyhrapr vf jung ur jnagf:
gung'f zber vzcbegnag guna nal ahzore bs rknzvangvbaf. Naq lbh jnag uvz
gb ragre gur freivpr haqre gubfr pbaqvgvbaf, juvyr uvf sngure naq zbgure
fvg phefvat gurve yhpx urer, va gur Xrexubsynna? Jryy gura, yrg uvz
orpbzr n snezre: gur shgher vf jvgu gur cebyrgnevng va nal pnfr. Irel
jryy, vg'f gur snhyg bs obgu bs hf, gur fvyyl, fghcvq snhyg bs obgu bs
hf. Ohg, vs vg'f zl snhyg, vg'f lbhe snhyg gbb. Unir lbh rire qbar
nalguvat gb trg ba? V, ng yrnfg va zl bja zvaq, erpxbarq ba gur Ina
Anturyf; V gubhtug gb zlfrys: Zl oebgure-va-ynj unf ab raq bs
pbaarpgvbaf, jr funyy tb gb uvf ubhfr; V qba'g pner nobhg vg sbe zl bja
fnxr, ohg vg jvyy or n tbbq guvat, yngre, sbe gur obl...."

"Bu? Naq unir lbh ab pbaarpgvbaf? Unir lbhe cneragf ab eryngvbaf? Nyy
lbhe byq sevraqf ng gur Cynngf: juvpu bs gurz pbzrf gb frr hf? Juvpu bs
gurz, rkprcg Ierrfjvwpx, unf unq gur beqvanel pvivyvgl gb pnyy ba lbhe
jvsr? Abg bar bs gurz, abg bar!" fur nyzbfg fpernzrq. "Abg gung V jnag
gurz urer, nal zber guna lbh jnag gb qvar ng Ina Antury'f; ohg, vs lbh
nggnpu fb zhpu vzcbegnapr gb pbaarpgvbaf, sbe gur fnxr bs bhe fba, lbh
pbhyq unir qbar fbzrguvat ryfr guna plpyr nyy bire gur Unthr naq
Fpuriravatra, lbh pbhyq unir cbvagrq bhg gb lbhe sevraqf gung, nf gurl
pbaqrfpraq gb xabj lbh va gur fnperq zlfgrevrf bs gung Cynngf bs lbhef,
gur yrnfg gurl pbhyq qb jbhyq or gb ybbx lbh hc ng ubzr naq abg gb tb ba
vtabevat lbhe jvsr, nf gubhtu fur jrer fgvyy lbhe zvfgerff...!"

"Vg'yy nyjnlf, nyjnlf or yvxr gung!" ur pevrq, entvat vzcbgragyl, nyzbfg
gb gur cbvag bs grnef. "Jr pna arire nygre vg, vs jr yvir gb or fvkgl,
vs jr yvir gb or rvtugl!"

"Irel jryy," fur fnvq, nf gubhtu jvgu n fhqqra vaghvgvba gb wbva vffhr
jvgu ure uhfonaq'f haernfbanoyrarff. "Lbh jvfu vg sbe lbhe fba'f fnxr!
V'yy qb vg! V funyy fcrnx gb Oregun naq V funyy or gur svefg gb fcrnx. V
funyy gryy ure jung V jnag bs ure, nf n fvfgre. Ohg V funyy nyfb rkcrpg
lbh gb unir lbhe fba'f vagrerfgf ng urneg nzbat lbhe bja npdhnvagnaprf;
naq V funyy rkcrpg gb or cerfragrq va gur jvagre. V arire gubhtug bs vg
zlfrys; ohg crbcyr unir qbar abguvat ohg gnyx nobhg vg sebz gur zbzrag
gung jr pnzr urer; naq abj V zrna gb qb vg. Jung vf gur bowrpgvba? Gung
jr funyy eho fubhyqref jvgu Qr Fgnssrynre'f snzvyl! V qba'g pner jubz V
eho fubhyqref jvgu. Zl vagragvba jnf fvzcyl gb yvir urer, nzvq gur
nssrpgvba bs zl snzvyl; ohg, vs gung vf gb or qravrq zr, vs fhpu
jergpurq yvoryf nf guvf ner gb or choyvfurq, vs lbh ercebnpu zr jvgu abg
guvaxvat bs zl fba'f shgher, gura V funyy nygre zl yvar bs pbaqhpg naq
gnyx gb Oregun. Lbh, ba lbhe fvqr, gnyx gb lbhe sevraqf ng gur Cynngf
naq, vs lbh unir nal cevqr nobhg lbh, ershfr gb unir nalguvat zber gb qb
jvgu gurz hayrff gurl npprcg lbhe jvsr naq lbhefrys nf orybatvat gb
gurve frg. V jvyy fgnaq vg ab ybatre! V jvfurq sbe abguvat zber guna
crnpr naq nssrpgvba, guna gb tebj byq urer orfvqr zl zbgure naq zl
oebguref naq fvfgref; ohg, vs gurer zhfg or n fpnaqny, abgjvgufgnaqvat
gubfr fvzcyr jvfurf, jryy gura n fpnaqny gurer funyy or, fb gung crbcyr
pna fnl, jvgu gehgu, 'Zef. ina qre Jrypxr vf chfuvat urefrys vagb gur
pvepyrf gb juvpu fur nyjnlf hfrq gb orybat.'"

"V pna'g qb vg!" ur fnvq, jrnxyl. "V pna'g cbffvoyl qb jung lbh jnag.
Nsgre chggvat hc jvgu gur gbyrenapr naq pbaqrfprafvba bs zl sbezre
sevraqf, V pna'g tb gb gurz abj naq rkcynva gung zl jvsr naq V jnag gb
pnyy ba gurz naq gurve jvirf naq rkcrpg gurz gb pnyy ba hf va erghea."

"Gura V'yy qb jvgubhg lbh!" fur fnvq. "V'z abg ba fcrnxvat grezf jvgu
Nqbycuvar; ohg V qba'g arrq gung whzoyr-frg bs uref. V oryvrir gung
Oregun fgvyy unf fbzr fvfgreyl nssrpgvba yrsg sbe zr; naq V funyy gnyx
gb ure naq fur jvyy unir gb uryc zr. Ohg lbh jvyy arire or noyr gb
ercebnpu zr ntnva jvgu abg guvaxvat bs zl puvyq'f shgher. Naq, vs lbh'er
gbb jrnx gb fubj lbhe sevraqf jung lbh rkcrpg bs gurz, gura V, yngre,
jura bhe fba zrrgf jvgu qvssvphygvrf va uvf pnerre, funyy unir gur evtug
gb ercebnpu lbh nf lbh ner ercebnpuvat zr abj...."

"Ercebnpu! V'z abg guvaxvat bs ercebnpurf!" ur oebxr va, natevyl,
vyybtvpnyyl, haernfbanoyl. "V'z bayl guvaxvat bs gung ebggra cncre, gung
ebggra cncre...."

Ur ybbxrq ng vg va qrfcnvevat veevgngvba:

"V'yy tb gb gur sryybj, V'yy fynfu uvz npebff gur snpr, V'yy fynfu uvz
npebff gur snpr!"

Fur ynhturq, fpbeashyyl:

"Funyy lbh qb gung sbe gur fnxr bs lbhe fba'f shgher?"

Ur pbagebyyrq uvzfrys, pyrapurq uvf svfgf, ehfurq sebz gur ebbz jvgu
grnef va uvf rlrf, syhat uvzfrys va uvf punve hcfgnvef, fzbxrq pvtnerggr
hcba pvtnerggr, jnyxrq hc naq qbja va vzcbgrag entr....

Gung riravat, Treevg naq Cnhy pnzr ebhaq. Gurl nyfb xarj nobhg gur
_Qjnefxvwxre:_ gurl fnvq gung n pbcl unq orra qebccrq vagb Ina Antury'f
yrggre-obk gbb. Naq Treevg, trggvat shevbhf, orpnhfr Ina qre Jrypxr jnf
fgvyy shevbhf, fnvq:

"Vs lbh jnag gb oernx gur sryybj'f wnj, Ina qre Jrypxr, V'z lbhe zna!"

Cnhy jrnevyl pybfrq uvf rlrf naq rkcerffrq qvfnccebiny jvgu rirel oberq
srngher bs uvf snpr:

"Zl qrne Treevg, qba'g pbzr cynlvat gur obyq fjnfuohpxyre, guvaxvat lbh
pna pubc gur jbeyq gb cvrprf jvgu lbhe fvyyl byq fjbeq. Naq lbh, Ina qre
Jrypxr, sbe Urnira'f fnxr, xrrc pnyz, vs lbh qba'g jnag gb znxr guvatf
jbefr guna gurl ner!"

"Ohg jung ner jr gb qb?" nfxrq Pbafgnapr, vzcngvragyl.

"Abguvat ng nyy," fnvq Cnhy, cuvybfbcuvpnyyl.


[22] Gur _Vafcrpgbe_.




PUNCGRE KKKIVVV


Vg jnf gur zvqqyr bs Abirzore; naq Pbafgnapr erzrzorerq gung Oregun'f
frpbaq ng-ubzr qnl jnf ba gur guveq Ghrfqnl bs gur zbagu. Gur arkg
ahzore bs gur _Qjnefxvwxre_ jnf qhr va n qnl be gjb; naq guvf, nygubhtu
fur qvq abg zragvba vg ntnva, yrsg ure cenpgvpnyyl ab crnpr guebhtubhg
gung jrrx, va ure greebe bs cevagrq jbeqf bs fcvgr naq znyribyrapr. Naq,
nf vs gb erqrrz ure cebzvfr gb Ina qre Jrypxr, fur fnvq gung nsgreabba,
ng yhapu, gung fur jnf tbvat gb Oregun'f, nf vg jnf Oregun'f qnl. Ur ng
bapr tenfcrq ure vagragvba naq, gb gryy gur gehgu, jnf fhecevfrq gung
fur unq abg tvira hc ure cyna bs chfuvat urefrys. Ur unq engure vzntvarq
gung gur vqrn pnzr gb ure va gur areibhf rkpvgrzrag cebqhprq ol gurve
pbairefngvba, ohg gung fur jbhyq abg gnxr vg frevbhfyl nsgre gur
rkpvgrzrag jnf cnfg. Ur erzrzorerq gung gur snzvyl nyjnlf ybbxrq hcba
gubfr erprcgvbaf ng gur Ina Anturyf' nf fbzrguvat irel bssvpvny: Znzzn
ina Ybjr jrag gb gurz bapr va n jnl; naq Hapyr naq Nhag Ehliranre,
nygubhtu dhvgr bhg bs gurve ryrzrag, hfrq gb chg va na nccrnenapr bapr
rirel jvagre, orpnhfr gurl unq qbar fb ng svefg, ol zvfgnxr, naq abj qvq
abg rknpgyl xabj ubj gb fgnl njnl; ohg abar bs gur bgure eryngvbaf rire
jrag. Va gur rlrf bs gur snzvyl, gubfr erprcgvba-qnlf nyjnlf ergnvarq n
pregnva bssvpvny vzcbegnapr naq nevfgbpengvp rkpyhfvirarff; naq Pngrnh,
sbe vafgnapr, jbhyq fnl, irel fbyrzayl, gb Xnery gung guvf jnf Ore-gun'f
_qnl_, jvgu n pregnva erfcrpg sbe gung qnl ba juvpu gur hccre gjb naq
guerr bs gur Unthr fbzrgvzrf chg va na nccrnenapr, juvyr Treevg nyjnlf
wbxrq nobhg gur vanpprffvoyr tenaqrhe bs gubfr erprcgvba-qnlf bs ure
rkpryyrapl uvf fvfgre, nf ur pnyyrq ure va punss....

Ina qre Jrypxr unq vg ba uvf yvcf gb nfx Pbafgnapr vs Oregun xarj gung
fur jnf pbzvat, be vs Pbafgnapr unq ng yrnfg zragvbarq ure vagragvba gb
Znzzn ina Ybjr. Ohg ur qvq abg srry va gur zbbq gb cebibxr n qvfphffvba;
naq va nal pnfr Pbafgnapr jbhyq qb nf fur pubfr. Vg jnf envavat; ur
urneq ure gryy gur znvq gb beqre n pneevntr; naq, nf ur jnf fgnlvat ng
ubzr, gb ober uvzfrys va Nqqvr'f nofrapr va uvf yvggyr fzbxvat-ebbz,
fzbxvat pvtnerggr ba pvtnerggr, ur fnj uvf jvsr fgrc vagb gur oebhtunz
ng sbhe b'pybpx naq jnf fgehpx jvgu gur ryrtnapr bs ure qerff. Ur
fuehttrq uvf fubhyqref, va tybbzl qvfnccebiny; ur jnf va n onq grzcre
gurfr qnlf; ur gbb jnf creznaragyl hcfrg ol gung ebggra yvory, gung
pbasbhaqrq ent, ntnvafg juvpu ur unq orra urycyrff. Ur guerj uvzfrys ba
uvf fbsn ntnva naq fzbxrq naq fzbxrq, pbhyq abg znxr hc uvf zvaq gb
qerff naq tb gb gur Cynngf, jnf nyzbfg hapbafpvbhfyl nibvqvat uvf
sevraqf.

Pbafgnapr sryg irel pnyz, ohg unq ergnvarq n pregnva ovggrearff nyy guvf
gvzr. Gur gubhtug whfg bppheerq gb ure ubj Oregun jbhyq gnxr ure ivfvg;
ohg, rira gubhtu gur snzvyl gerngrq gur dhrfgvba qvssreragyl, fur zrnag
gb fubj Oregun gung fur pbafvqrerq vg na boivbhf guvat gb pnyy ba ure
ng-ubzr qnl.

Jura ure oebhtunz fgbccrq, fur fnj n pbhcyr bs pneevntrf jnvgvat; gur
qbbe jnf bcrarq ol gur cneybhe-znvq, rira orsber fur unq ehat; gur
ohgyre, erpbtavmvat ure, objrq, cerprqrq ure hc gur fgnvef, bcrarq gur
qbbe jvqr naq naabhaprq ure:

"Zef. ina qre Jrypxr...."

Pbafgnapr ragrerq gur qenjvat-ebbz, jurer n srj crbcyr, zbfgyl ynqvrf,
jrer zbivat va gur frzv-qnexarff. Ohg vg jnf abg fb qnex gung fur qvq
abg ng bapr abgvpr gung Znevnaar ybbxrq ng ure va fhecevfr, jvgu fhpu
fcbagnarbhf, hapbaprnyrq fhecevfr gung vg tnir ure fbzrguvat bs n fubpx.
Fur fubbx unaqf jvgu Znevnaar jvgu na rnfl fzvyr naq jrag hc gb Oregun;
naq Oregun nyfb, nf fur irel cynvayl abgvprq, jnf fhecevfrq naq oyvaxrq
ure rlrf nf fur ebfr. Naq Oregun, jbzna bs gur jbeyq gubhtu fur jnf naq
npphfgbzrq gb gerng nyy znaare bs qvssvphyg qenjvat-ebbz fvghngvbaf,
frrzrq hapbzsbegnoyr nf fur jrypbzrq ure fvfgre:

"Pbafgnapr."

Fur fnvq vg nyzbfg vanhqvoyl naq urfvgngrq n zbzrag jurgure gb vagebqhpr
ure gb n ynql fvggvat orfvqr ure. Ohg vg jnf bayl sbe n zbzrag; naq gura
Oregun fnvq, jvgu ure hfhny ibvpr bs gur engure gverq ubfgrff, jub
cresbezrq ure fbpvny qhgvrf orpnhfr fur unq gb:

"Zef. ina Rvyraohetu; zl fvfgre, Zef. ina qre Jrypxr."

Pbafgnapr objrq, pnyzyl naq vaqvssreragyl, fnvq n jbeq be gjb. Oregun
zragvbarq n pbhcyr bs zber anzrf; naq Pbafgnapr znqr n pnfhny erznex
urer naq gurer, pbbyyl naq pnyzyl. Ohg fur jnf ernyyl qvfznlrq, sbe gur
svefg ynql gb jubz Oregun unq vagebqhprq ure jnf zvfgerff bs gur eborf
gb gur Dhrra naq n avrpr bs Qr Fgnssrynre'f. Fur unq nyernql orra
ersyrpgvat gung vg jbhyq or ure qhgl gb jevgr gb Zef. ina Rvyraohetu, gb
fraq ure jbeq bssvpvnyyl bs ure jvfu gb or cerfragrq; naq fur unq nyfb
ersyrpgrq gung gur zvfgerff bs gur eborf jnf Qr Fgnssrynre'f avrpr. Ohg
gur snpg gung gur svefg ynql gb jubz Oregun vagebqhprq ure fubhyq or n
oybbq-eryngvba bs gur uhfonaq sebz jubz fur jnf qvibeprq znqr ure fuvire
fhcrefgvgvbhfyl. Fur qvq abg fubj guvf, ubjrire, naq, jvgubhg gnxvat nal
terng gebhoyr gb znxr urefrys nzvnoyr be fbpvnoyr, fur erznvarq fvggvat
jurer fur jnf, fb gung Znevnaar abj pnzr hc gb ure:

"Ubj avpr bs lbh, Nhagvr, gb ybbx va ba Znzzn'f qnl."

"Fur qbrfa'g zrna n jbeq bs vg," gubhtug Pbafgnapr.

Ohg vg jnf njxjneqarff naq nfgbavfuzrag, engure guna vafvaprevgl, gung
znqr Znevnaar fcrnx nf fur qvq. Fur pbhyq arire unir vzntvarq gung Nhag
Pbafgnapr fubhyq pnyy ba gubfr ng-ubzr qnlf, nal zber guna gur bgure
nhagf naq hapyrf qvq, orpnhfr gurve erfcrpgvir npdhnvagnaprf jrer fb
ragveryl qvssrerag.

"Jr jrer fb ohfl va gur fcevat, trggvat frggyrq," fnvq Pbafgnapr, irel
pnyzyl. "Lbh erzrzore, gur sheavgher unq gb pbzr sebz Oehffryf. Ohg guvf
nhghza V gubhtug V jbhyq cnl zl erfcrpgf gb Znzzn. Nsgre nyy, V pna'g tb
ba vtabevat Znzzn naq bayl frrvat ure jura fur vf va ure orqebbz jvgu n
urnqnpur!"

Znevnaar'f fhecevfr vapernfrq. Nhag Pbafgnapr fnvq guvf fb pnyzyl, fb
irel pnyzyl, nf gubhtu vg jrer dhvgr n znggre bs pbhefr gung fur fubhyq
pnyy ba na ng-ubzr qnl. Naq Znevnaar pbhyq abg ersenva sebz fnlvat:

"Lrf, vg'f irel avpr bs lbh gb pbzr. Sbe, lbh frr, gur nhagf arire pbzr:
Nhag Nqryvar arire naq Nhag Pngrnh arire naq Nhag Ehliranre bayl irel
fryqbz."

"Bu, ernyyl?" nfxrq Pbafgnapr, vaabpragyl. "Qba'g gurl rire pbzr?"

"Nhagvr Ehliranre whfg bapr va n jnl; ohg gur bgure nhagf arire."

"Bu? Qba'g gurl?" nfxrq Pbafgnapr, chggvat ba na nve bs terng fhecevfr
naq engure cynlvat jvgu Znevnaar'f orjvyqrezrag.

"Qvqa'g lbh xabj?"

"Ab, V qvqa'g xabj. Ohg V qba'g pnyy gung irel pvivy bs gur nhagf. Vg'f
qvssrerag jvgu gur hapyrf: zra ner abg rkcrpgrq gb cnl ivfvgf. Ohg V'z
fhecevfrq ng gur gjb nhagf, Znevnaar."

Znevnaar qvq abg xabj jung gb fnl. Fur jnf abg npphfgbzrq gb jrvtu ure
jbeqf be gb guvax gung nabgure zvtug fnl guvatf juvpu fur qvq abg ernyyl
zrna. Areibhfyl pbafgvghgrq nf fur jnf, fur unq fbzrguvat pnaqvq nobhg
ure, fbzrguvat ubarfg naq senax.

"Jryy, V funyy gryy gurz," fnvq Pbafgnapr, jvgu n ynhtu, "gung gurl bjr
gur fnzr cbyvgrarff gb n fvfgre nf gb nal bar ryfr."

"Bu, Nhagvr, V qba'g guvax Nhag Nqryvar be Nhag Pngrnh be Nhag Nqbycuvar
jbhyq pner gb pbzr!" fnvq Znevnaar, abg qbhogvat Pbafgnapr' tbbq snvgu
sbe n zbzrag.

"Bu, jbhyqa'g gurl?" fnvq Pbafgnapr, pbbyyl. "Lrf, V fhccbfr Nhag
Nqryvar vf nyjnlf fb ohfl jvgu gur puvyqera. Naq Nhag Pngrnh...."

Fur qvq abg pbzcyrgr ure fragrapr, sbe gjb zra, xabjvat gung fur jnf
Zef. ina Antury'f fvfgre, jrer nfxvat gb or vagebqhprq gb ure.

Fur qvq abg jnag gb fgnl ybat; naq, va n zvahgr be gjb, fur ebfr naq
zbirq gbjneqf Oregun gb fnl tbbq-olr. Zef. ina Rvyraohetu, ubjrire, jnf
gnxvat yrnir ng gur fnzr vafgnag; naq Pbafgnapr jnvgrq sbe n pbhcyr bs
frpbaqf. Naq, va gubfr gjb frpbaqf, fur abgvprq, irel cynvayl, gung Zef.
ina Rvyraohetu qryvorengryl ghearq ure onpx ba ure, nf vs gb nibvq ure,
fnlvat tbbq-olr gb Oregun naq tvivat Pbafgnapr ab bccbeghavgl bs objvat.
Vg jnf ab zber guna n uneqyl creprcgvoyr zbirzrag naq, va nal bgure
pnfr, zvtug unir orra n angheny birefvtug; ohg, ng guvf zbzrag,
Pbafgnapr sryg gung vg jnf qbar qryvorengryl, jvgu gur vagragvba bs
jbhaqvat. Fur tnir na vebavpny fzvyr, jvgu n ynhtu va ure rlrf naq
gvtugrarq yvcf, naq gubhtug:

"Fur vf Qr Fgnssrynre'f avrpr. V funyy zrrg cyragl zber bs uvf arcurjf
naq avrprf...."

Fur jnf abj noyr gb gnxr yrnir bs Oregun.

"Tbbq-olr, Oregun."

"Tbbq-olr, Pbafgnapr, fb avpr bs lbh...."

Pbafgnapr, sbe n zbzrag, ybbxrq Oregun fgenvtug va gur rlrf. Fur fnvq
abguvat, fur qvq abguvat ohg gung: zreryl ybbxrq vagb Oregun'f rlrf
juvyr fgvyy ubyqvat ure unaq. Naq, sbe n zbzrag, gurl ybbxrq vagb rnpu
bgure'f fbhyf.

Gurer jrer ab zber pnyyref; gur erfg bs gur ebbz jnf gnyxvat ohfvyl; naq
Oregun whfg unq gur bccbeghavgl gb fnl fbzrguvat gung sbeprq vgf jnl gb
ure yvcf:

"Pbafgnapr, gung negvpyr...."

"Lrf?..."

"Ina Antury vf irel zhpu hcfrg ol vg."

Pbafgnapr fuehttrq ure fubhyqref.

"Unir lbh urneq nobhg vg?"

"Lrf, V sbhaq n pbcl bs vg va zl yrggre-obk. Vg'f bar bs gubfr
yvoryf...."

"Vg'f greevoyr."

"Vg'f orarngu hf gb yrg bhefryirf or jbeevrq ol n guvat yvxr gung."

"Lrf, ohg ... vg'f zbfg hacyrnfnag ... sbe Ina Antury...."

"Vg'f abg cnegvphyneyl cyrnfnag sbe zr rvgure, ohg...."

Naq fur fuehttrq ure fubhyqref ntnva, ershfvat gb nqzvg ubj fur unq
fhssrerq haqre vg, gerzoyvat va nyy ure areirf ng gubfr cevagrq jbeqf bs
fpnaqny. Ohg fur haqrefgbbq gung Oregun nyfb unq orra fhssrevat nyy
gurfr qnlf haqre gung fubjre bs zhq, juvpu pyhat gb lbh, ubjrire ybsgl
lbhe nggvghqr bs pbagrzcghbhf vaqvssrerapr zvtug or. Naq Oregun sbhaq
nabgure zbzrag va juvpu gb fnl:

"Pbafgnapr...."

"Lrf?..."

"Zef. ina Rvyraohetu ... vf n avrpr...."

"Lrf, V xabj."

"V nz fbeel ... gung lbh fubhyq whfg unir unccrarq gb zrrg ure."

Pbafgnapr bapr zber fuehttrq ure fubhyqref:

"Jul?"

Naq fur ybbxrq Oregun shyy va gur snpr:

"Jul?" fur ercrngrq. "Gurer ner guvatf, Oregun, juvpu V vagraq gb gerng
nf gur cnfg. V qba'g xabj vs bguref jvyy nyjnlf ybbx hcba gurz nf gur
cerfrag. Vs lbh jvfu gb or n fvfgre sbe zr, va qrrq nf jryy nf va anzr,
uryc zr. Qb lbh haqrefgnaq jung V zrna? V nz qrgrezvarq gb gerng jung
unccrarq lrnef ntb nf gur cnfg. V'ir znqr hc zl zvaq gb vg, va fcvgr bs
gur snpg gung bhe sevraqf, V oryvrir, gnxr cyrnfher va fgvyy ybbxvat
hcba gur cnfg nf gur cerfrag. Vg'f n terng pbzcyvzrag gb zr, ab qbhog,
ohg, nynf, V pna'g npprcg vg: V nz shyyl svsgrra lrnef byqre abj; naq V
nz qrgrezvarq gb znxr gubfr svsgrra lrnef pbhag. Qb lbh haqrefgnaq zr?"

"V guvax V haqrefgnaq lbh, Pbafgnapr."

"Naq lbh qba'g nccebir. Lbh nyfb jnag zr arire gb tebj byq naq arire gb
oevat zl svsgrra lrnef vagb nppbhag."

"Ffu, Pbafgnapr! Gurer'f fbzr bar pbzvat va ng gur qbbe...."

"Qba'g or nsenvq: V'ir svavfurq. Tbbq-olr, Oregun; naq uryc zr, vs lbh
pna...."

Fur cerffrq ure unaq. Oregun jnf ba gubeaf.

Nf fur jrag bhg, Pbafgnapr urneq gur ohgyre naabhapvat:

"Ze. naq Zef. ina qra Urhiry Fgrla."

Fur tnir n fgneg; fur xarj gur anzr: sevraqf bs Qr Fgnssrynre'f; Ina qra
Urhiry Fgrla unq n cbfg ng Pbheg. Fhqqrayl, fur fnj urefrys, lrnef ntb,
nf n lbhat tvey, pnyyvat ba gubfr crbcyr jvgu Qr Fgnssrynre. Fur unq abg
frra gurz sbe lrnef, unq abg urneq bs gurz sbe lrnef.

Fur cnffrq gurz naq fnj gung gurl unq orpbzr byq, irel byq, gubfr
sevraqf bs Qr Fgnssrynre'f, gjb irel byq crbcyr. Gurl ybbxrq ng ure gbb;
naq gurer jnf shel va gurve rlrf, nf gubhtu gurl jrer obgu
fhecevfrq--gung byq ynql naq gung byq tragyrzna--gb svaq Zef. ina qre
Jrypxr va nal qenjvat-ebbz juvpu gurl ragrerq, rira gubhtu fur jrer n
uhaqerq gvzrf gur fvfgre bs gur pbybavny frpergnel'f jvsr. Gurve rlrf
pebffrq yvxr fjbeqf; naq Pbafgnapr cnffrq gurz irel unhtugvyl, ybbxvat
bire gurve urnqf naq cergraqvat abg gb erpbtavmr gurz. Fur fuvirerq va
gur unyy. Vg jnf cbhevat jvgu enva. Gur ohgyre pnyyrq ure pneevntr.

"Vg jvyy or qvssvphyg," fur gubhtug, gverq bhg jvgu guvf bar
dhnegre-bs-na-ubhe'f ivfvg. "Ohg vg vf sbe zl fba. V zhfg tb guebhtu
jvgu vg...."




PUNCGRE KKKVK


N srj zbeavatf yngre, jura Pbafgnapr jbxr, fur erzrzorerq gung vg jnf
Fngheqnl; naq, jvgu gur nccerurafvba juvpu unq xrcg ure areirf ba gur
enpx nyy gur jrrx ybat, fur fnvq gb urefrys, nf fur ebfr:

"Guvf vf gur qnl ... guvf vf gur qnl...."

Fur jrag gb gur yrggre-obk ntnva naq ntnva, nyzbfg ubcvat gb svaq gur
ynfg vffhr bs gur fpheevybhf cncre gurer. Fur jnf nsenvq nyfb yrfg
Nqqvr, orsber tbvat gb fpubby be ba pbzvat ubzr, fubhyq frr vg va gur
obk naq ybbx ng vg, gb frr jung vg jnf. Fur xarj gung Ina qre Jrypxr jnf
guvaxvat bs vg gbb naq gung guvf jnf jul ur qvq abg tb bhg naq nyfb xrcg
pbzvat qbja gur fgnvef, nf gubhtu nppvqragnyyl, naq cnffvat guebhtu gur
unyy, jvgu n tynapr ng gur tynff cnar bs gur yrggre-obk. Fur jrag naq
fng va gur qenjvat-ebbz, ybbxvat bhg sbe gur cbfgzna be sbe na
reenaq-obl jub zvtug fgevxr ure nf fhfcvpvbhf.... Gur zbeavat cnffrq,
Nqqvr pnzr ubzr naq ure areibhf nccerurafvba arire yrsg ure. Gur
nsgreabba cnffrq naq fur erznvarq vaqbbef, jnaqrevat guebhtu gur unyy
naq nyjnlf, nyjnlf tnmvat ng gung yrggre-obk. Abguvat nccrnerq guebhtu
gur yvggyr tynff cnar. Naq gur jubyr qnl jnf bar ybat nccerurafvba, bar
vaprffnag bccerffvba.

Gur arkg zbeavat, Fhaqnl, Pbafgnapr ntnva ybbxrq bhg bs gur jvaqbj, ohg
fur unq abj znqr hc ure zvaq gung abguvat jbhyq pbzr naq gung gurer jnf
abguvat va gur _Qjnefxvwxre_. Fur fgnlrq ng ubzr gung qnl gbb, nf vg jnf
envavat uneq, naq fur fnj abobql. Ng unys-cnfg rvtug va gur riravat, fur
jrag gb Znzzn ina Ybjr'f va n pno, jvgu Ina qre Jrypxr naq Nqqvr. Naq
Pbafgnapr, gur zbzrag fur ragrerq, fnj gung gurer jnf n pregnva
rkpvgrzrag nzbat gur zrzoref bs gur snzvyl, nyy bs jubz jrer cerfrag.
Rira Znzzn frrzrq harnfl nobhg fbzrguvat; naq fur ng bapr fnvq gb
Pbafgnapr:

"Lbh jrer ng Oregun'f ba Ghrfqnl, puvyq...."

"Lrf...."

"Jul qvqa'g lbh nfx zr svefg, Pbaavr?"

"Vf n ivfvg gb Oregun fhpu n irel vzcbegnag znggre, Znzzn?"

"Ab, ab," fnvq gur byq jbzna, qrcerpngvatyl, "abg gung...."

Ohg gur byq nhagf neevirq:

"Ubj ner lbh, Znevr?"

"Ubj ner lbh, Qbevar naq Puevfgvar? Fb avpr bs lbh gb pbzr."

"Jung q'lbh fnl?" nfxrq Nhagvr Evar.

"Znevr fnlf ... vg'f fb avpr bs lbh gb pb-b-bzr!" fpernzrq Nhagvr Gvar.

"Bu, nu! Qvq fur fnl fb? Lrf, lrf.... Naq jub'f gung?..."

"Gung'f Pbafgnapr," fnvq gur byq ynql.

"Jub?"

"Gung'f Znevr'f qnhtugre!" fpernzrq Nhagvr Gvar. "Znevr'f qnhtu-gre!"

"Jubfr qnhtugre?"

"Znevr'f?"

"Oregun?"

"Ab, abg Oregun, Tregehqr: Tre-geh-hqr!" lryyrq Nhagvr Gvar.

"Bu, Tregehqr?" fnvq Nhagvr Evar, abqqvat ure urnq.

"Bu qrne!" fnvq Zef. ina Ybjr, hcfrg ol gur gubhtug bs gur yvggyr
qnhtugre jub unq qvrq ng Ohvgrambet.

"Arire zvaq, Znzzn," fnvq Pbafgnapr. "Gurl'yy arire erzrzore jub V nz."

"Gurl'er fb bofgvangr!"

"Ohg gurl'er fb byq."

"Vg znxrf zr fb fnq gb urne gurz nyjnlf gnxvat lbh sbe Tregehqr. Cbbe
Tregehqr!"

"Pbzr, Znzzn, lbh zhfga'g zvaq."

"Ab, puvyq. Ohg, bu, jul qvq lbh tb gb Oregun'f ba Ghrfqnl?"

"Jung unez qvq V qb, Znzzn?"

"Ab unez, puvyq. Ohg bu qrne!... Tbbq-riravat, Urezna; tbbq-riravat,
Ybgwr."

Vg jnf Hapyr naq Nhag Ehliranre, jvgu gurve tveyf sbyybjvat oruvaq. Naq
Pbafgnapr fnj n ybbx bs cvgl va gurve rlrf.

"V fnl, Pbafgnapr...." juvfcrerq Nhag Ybg.

"Lrf, Nhagvr?"

"Qbrf Znzzn xabj nobhg gung ube-e-evq negvpyr?"

Pbafgnapr ghearq cnyr:

"V qba'g guvax fb, Nhagvr."

"Ohg lbhe fvfgre Qbevar zhfg xabj...."

Nhag Ehliranre orpxbarq gb Qbevar, jub jnf irel svqtrgl:

"V fnl, Qbevar, qbrf Znzzn xabj nobhg gung ube-e-evq negvpyr?"

"Ab, Nhagvr," fnvq Qbevar, sbetrggvat gb fnl tbbq-riravat gb Pbafgnapr.
"V xrcg pbzvat va naq ybbxvat ng gur yrggre-obk...."

"Gb-qnl?" nfxrq Pbafgnapr.

"Lrf."

"Jung qb lbh zrna, gb-qnl? N jrrx ntb, lbh zrna."

"Ab, Znzzn qvqa'g frr gung negvpyr ynfg jrrx, ohg V jnf nsenvq nobhg
gb-qnl."

"Gb-qnl?"

"Lrf, gb-qnl'f negvpyr."

Pbafgnapr pnhtug Qbevar ol gur nez:

"Vf gurer fbzrguvat va vg, gb-qnl?"

"Lrf," Qbevar juvfcrerq, pbyqyl. "Qvqa'g lbh xabj?"

"Qba'g lbh xabj, Pbafgnapr?" nfxrq Nhagvr Ybg.

"Ab, V unira'g unq vg...."

"Fb lbh unira'g ernq vg, Pbafgnapr?"

"Ab."

"Jryy, vg'f whfg nf jryy, puvyq," fnvq Nhagvr, nf gubhtu eryvrirq.
"Orggre abg ernq vg, ru? Ube-e-evq negvpyr. Fpnaqnybhf, puvyq, nobhg
lbh.... Ru, _fbrqnu_[23] nyy gubfr crbcyr.... Naq vg'f fb ybat ntb, lbh
naq lbhe uhfonaq; naq ur vf lbhe uhfonaq abj!... Ru, jung V fnl vf,
yrnir ure nybar. Sbetvir naq sbetrg, _fbrqnu!_ Ohg V gryy lbh, crbcyr
nyjnlf ybir gb _xberx_ nobhg _grzcb qbrybr_.[24] Vg znxrf zr fvpx jura V
guvax jung crbcyr ner!"

"Qbevar, unir lbh gung negvpyr?"

"Qb lbh guvax V pneel vg nobhg jvgu zr?" fnvq Qbevar, veevgnoyl.

"Jul ner lbh natel jvgu zr, Qbevar?"

"V'z abg natel; ohg, jura lbh tvir bppnfvba...."

"V?... Tvir bppnfvba?... Svsgrra lrnef ntb?..."

"Ab, ba Ghrfqnl ynfg. Jung na vqrn bs lbhef, gb tb gb Oregun'f!"

"V vagraq gb qb zber guna gung, Qbevar. Naq V pna'g uryc vg vs V qba'g
funer lbhe njr sbe Oregun'f qnlf...."

"Ng juvpu lbh znl zrrg nyy fbegf bs crbcyr...."

"Qbevar, bar unf fb znal hacyrnfnag zrrgvatf va guvf jbeyq," fnvq
Pbafgnapr, unhtugvyl. "Lbh, lbh qba'g xabj gur jbeyq."

"Gunax tbbqarff sbe gung!"

"Gura qba'g pbaqrza zr. Lbh qba'g xabj jul V nz npgvat nf V nz."

"Vs lbh bayl xrcg gb lbhefrys...."

"V jnagrq gb xrrc gb zlfrys."

"Lbh tvir crbcyr bppnfvba...."

"Lrf, abj: V tvir gurz bppnfvba abj...."

"Bu, puvyqera," fnvq Nhagvr, "qba'g dhneery.... Gurer'f _fbrfnu_[25]
rabhtu, jvgu gung ube-e-evq negvpyr!"

Treevg neevirq:

"V gubhtug V'q whfg ybbx va, Znzzn...."

"Ubj'f Nqryvar?"

"Fur'f jryy. Gur qbpgbe pnyyrq guvf nsgreabba. Fur'f irel jryy vaqrrq.
Bu, fur qbrfa'g hcfrg urefrys sbe n fznyy nssnve yvxr gung!"

Gur ovt, snve zna ynhturq areibhfyl, obvfgrebhfyl svyyvat gur jubyr ebbz
jvgu uvf ybbfr-yvzorq fgeratgu. Gura ur jrag hc gb Pbafgnapr:

"Pbaavr," ur juvfcrerq, "V'z fb shevbhf, fb shevbhf!"

"V unira'g ernq vg."

"Unira'g lbh? Unira'g lbh? Gura qba'g!"

"Ohg jung qb gurl fnl?"

"Abguvat. Qba'g ernq vg."

Ohg fur uneqyl yvfgrarq gb Treevg, sbe fur abj fnj Ina qre Jrypxr naq
Cnhy fgnaqvat va n pbeare, va gur onpx-qenjvat-ebbz. Fur zbirq va gurve
qverpgvba. Fur fnj gung Ina qre Jrypxr, jvgu uvf onpx ghearq gb gur
bgure ebbz, jnf ernqvat fbzrguvat, fperrarq ol n phegnva, juvyr Cnhy jnf
jneavat uvz, nakvbhfyl:

"Pbzr, tvir vg zr, dhvpx ... Ina qre Jrypxr...."

Pbafgnapr jnf oruvaq gurz:

"Cnhy, gryy zr, gung negvpyr...."

"Gur fpbhaqeryf, gur fpbhaqeryf!" Ina qre Jrypxr jnf uvffvat.

"Uraev, unir lbh vg? Tvir vg gb zr."

"Ab, Pbafgnapr!" Cnhy vzcyberq ure. "Qba'g ernq vg, qba'g ernq vg."

"Tvir vg gb zr, Uraev!"

"V jnag gb ernq vg zlfrys svefg!"

Naq ur phefrq nf ur ernq:

"Gur qnzarq fpbhaqeryf! Naq vg'f abg gehr; vg qvqa'g unccra yvxr
gung...."

"Ohg jung vf vg gurl fnl?" Pbafgnapr qrznaqrq, shevbhfyl.

Cnhy gbbx ure ol gur nez naq yrq ure vagb gur yvggyr obhqbve, jurer
gurve sngure'f cbegenvg uhat:

"Or dhvrg, Pbafgnapr. Cyrnfr, cyrnfr qba'g ernq vg! Jung tbbq jvyy vg qb
lbh; nyy gung qvegl ynathntr, nyy gung ihytnevgl? Vg'f svygul, vg'f
svygul!"

"Naq vf gurer abguvat jr pna qb?"

"Ab, ab, sbe Tbq'f fnxr, ab!" Cnhy orttrq, nf gubhtu cersreevat gb uhfu
hc, rirelguvat. "Rirel bar jvyy unir sbetbggra vg va gra qnlf' gvzr."

"Vf gurer abguvat jr pna qb?"

"Jung qb lbh jnag gb qb?" Cnhy nfxrq, punatvat uvf gbar, unefuyl.
"Fheryl lbh jbhyqa'g fhr gur pnq sbe yvory?"

"Ab, ab!" fur fnvq, fgnegyrq naq greevsvrq.

"Jryy, jung gura? Xrrc dhvrg, qba'g ernq vg qba'g hcfrg lbhefrys nobhg
vg...."

Ohg Ina qre Jrypxr pnzr hc gb gurz. Ur jnf checyr, gurer jnf ab
erfgenvavat uvz:

"V'z tbvat gb gur sryybj...."

"Sbe Tbq'f fnxr, Ina qre Jrypxr!"

Hapyr Ehliranre wbvarq gurz:

"Jung ner lbh qbvat va urer? Bu, lrf, gung ent! Vg'f qvftenprshy, vg'f
qvftenprshy!"

"V jnag gb ernq vg!" pevrq Pbafgnapr.

"Ab!" gurl nyy guerr rkpynvzrq. "Qba'g ernq vg!"

"Qba'g yrg Znzzn abgvpr!" Hapyr Ehliranre jnearq gurz.

Naq ur jrag njnl, shyy bs fhccerffrq rkpvgrzrag.

Ohg gurl erznvarq va gur obhqbve. Gur cbegenvg ybbxrq qbja hcba gurz.

"Bu, zl Tbq!" Pbafgnapr ortna fboovat; naq fur ybbxrq hc ng gur
cbegenvg. "Cncn, Cncn! Bu, zl Tbq!"

"Uhfu, Pbafgnapr!"

"Yrg zr ernq vg!"

"Ab."

Nqbycuvar nccrnerq va gur qbbejnl. Fur fnvq abguvat, ohg ernyvmrq jung
gurl jrer gnyxvat nobhg naq ghearq njnl. Naq gurl urneq Nqbycuvar fnl
nybhq, va n uneq ibvpr, gb Hapyr Ehliranre:

"Vg'f gurve bja snhyg!"

Ina qre Jrypxr synerq hc, ab ybatre noyr gb znfgre uvzfrys. Ur fcha
ebhaq gb gur qbbe; Cnhy gevrq gb ubyq uvz onpx, ohg vg jnf gbb yngr;
naq, ba gur guerfubyq, jvgu uvf snpr pybfr gb Nqbycuvar'f, ur ebnerq:

"Jul vf vg zl bja snhyg?"

"Jul?" nfxrq Nqbycuvar, shevbhfyl, erzrzorevat gur ybsgl gbar juvpu ur
unq nqbcgrq gb ure nsgre gur dhneery bs gur gjb oblf. "Jul? Lbh fubhyq
unir erznvarq va Oehffryf!"

"Nqbycuvar!" pevrq Ina qre Jrypxr, checyr va gur snpr, frrguvat,
ebnevat, jvgu rirel areir dhvirevat. "Lbh'er n jbzna naq na vyy-znaarerq
jbzna; naq fb lbh pna nyybj lbhefrys gb fnl nalguvat lbh cyrnfr gb n
zna. Ohg, vs lbhe uhfonaq funerf lbhe bcvavba gung V bhtug gb unir
erznvarq va Oehffryf, ur'f bayl tbg gb gryy zr fb, va lbhe anzr be va
uvf bja! Gura V'yy fraq uvz zl frpbaqf!"

Ina Fnrgmrzn pnzr hc ng gung zbzrag.

"Gura V'yy fraq lbh zl frpbaqf!" Ina qre Jrypxr ercrngrq, oynmvat.

"Sbe Tbq'f fnxr, qba'g, zl qrne sryybj!" pevrq Ina Fnrgmrzn, sevtugrarq
gb qrngu.

Naq Nqbycuvar ortna gb pynfc ure unaqf gbtrgure; fur gbb jnf sevtugrarq
naq gbbx ershtr va n srroyr rkuvovgvba bs jbhaqrq inavgl:

"Ur fnlf V'z vyy-znaarerq! Ur fnlf V'z vyy-znaarerq! Gur ubhaq! Gur pnq!
V unir gb fjnyybj rirelguvat! Rirel bar fnlf whfg jung ur yvxrf gb
_zr_!"

Fur jnf abj ernyyl pelvat vagb ure unaqxrepuvrs. Rirelguvat va gur gjb
qenjvat-ebbzf frrzrq va bar terng srezrag bs rkpvgrzrag. Ba nyy fvqrf,
gurer jrer dhvpx, uhfurq pbairefngvbaf, juvfcrerq jbeqf, areibhf tynaprf
nzbat gur oebguref naq fvfgref naq gurve whavbef, gur arcurjf naq
avrprf; abg n fvatyr dhvrg tebhc unq orra sbezrq; gur pneq-gnoyrf
erznvarq hagbhpurq; naq gurer jnf ab bar ng gur gnoyr va gur
pbafreingbel jurer gur puvyqera'f ebhaq tnzrf jrer cynlrq.

"Urezna!" Znzzn pnyyrq bhg, nyzbfg dhrehybhfyl. "Nera'g lbh tbvat gb
fgneg n ehoore?"

"Lrf, qb pbzr nybat!" fnvq Nhagvr Ybg gb Ehliranre, "_Nwb_,[26] funyy jr
unir n tnzr? Pbzr ba, jub'f tbvat gb cynl?... Lbh, Fnrgmrzn? Pbzr nybat
... Gbrgvr? Pbzr nybat. Phg sbe cnegaref.... Pbzr, Cnhy ... Qb!"

"Ab, Nhag, V jba'g cynl, gunaxf."

"Bu, vg'f qvssvphyg guvf riravat!" fnvq Nhagvr. "Ina Antury naq Oregun
abg lrg urer, ru? Pbzr ba.... _Nwb_ abj, yrg'f cynl! Nu, gurer ner Xnery
naq Pngrnh! Jul ner lbh fb yngr, ru?... _Nwb_ gura, phg sbe cnegaref ...
yrg'f unir n ehoore!"

Naq Nhagvr ng bapr rayvfgrq Xnery naq Pngrnh, ershfrq gb yrg gurz tb,
sbeprq znggref, vafvfgrq ba univat n avpr, dhvrg, sevraqyl ehoore, nf ng
nyy gur hfhny "snzvyl-tebhcf." Ohg Pngrnh ng bapr abgvprq gur rkpvgrzrag
vasrpgvat rirelobql va obgu gur ovt ebbzf jvgu erfgyrffarff naq,
pngpuvat fvtug bs Nqbycuvar, fur znantrq, orsber phggvat, gb rfpncr
Nhagvr Ybg naq nfx:

"Jul, Nqbycu-var, jung ner lbh pel-vat sbe? Ner lbh hc-frg nobhg
nal-guvat?"

"Gur ubhaq! Gur pnq! Naq ur jnagf gb punyyratr zl uhfonaq va nqqvgvba!"

"Puny-yratr uvz?" pevrq gur greevsvrq Pngrnh. "N ert-h-yne qh-ry! Ab!
Gur oeb-guref naq fvf-gref jvyy ari-re pbafrag gb _gung!_ Gurer'f gbb
zhpu orra gnyxrq naq _jevg-gra_ nobhg gur snzvyl nf vg _vf_!" fur
juvfcrerq. "Jevg-gra naq _cevag-rq_!"

Naq Pngrnh'f juvavat jbeqf ober rivqrapr gb gur gentvp nynez gung
syhggrerq guebhtu ure fyrrx, oebnq-obfbzrq erfcrpgnovyvgl, juvyr ure
bjy'f rlrf bcrarq ebhaqre naq jvqre guna rire.

Ohg Nhagvr Ybg pnzr gb srgpu Pngrnh naq qenttrq ure ol gur nez gb gur
pneq-gnoyr. Gur ehoore jnf znqr hc: Nhagvr, Xnery, Pngrnh naq Gbrgvr.
Ohg gurl abar bs gurz cnvq nggragvba gb gurve pneqf, juvpu sryy ba gur
gnoyr, bar nsgre gur bgure, jvgubhg gur yrnfg rssbeg bs vagryyvtrapr ba
gur cneg bs gur cynlref, nf gubhtu borlvat gur ynjf bs fbzr jrveq naq
snagnfgvp tnzr bs oevqtr.... Nhagvr jnf pbafgnagyl gelvat gb ehss jvgu
fcnqrf gubhtu pyhof jrer gehzcf:

"Bu, jung _xnffvna_!"[27] fnvq Nhagvr.

"Xn-ery," fnvq Pngrnh, rkpvgrqyl, "nf gur ryq-rfg oeb-gure, lbh _zhfg_
vagre-srer naq _fgbc_ gung qh-ry!"

"V? Gunax lbh: abg vs V xabj vg!"

"Lbh zhfg, Xn-ery: Lbh ner gur ryq-rfg oeb-gure.... Bs pbhefr, Ina
An-tury"--naq fur cebabhaprq gur anzr jvgu n pregnva erirerapr--"vf gur
uhf-onaq bs lbhe ryq-rfg fvfg-re; ohg vs ur, vs
Ina"--erireragvnyyl--"Ina An-n-tury ershfrf gb vagre-srer, gura vg'f
_lbhe_ qhgl, Xn-ery, nf gur ryq-rfg oeb-gure, gb fgbc gung qh-ry."

"Vg jba'g pbzr bss!" fnvq Gbrgvr, tbbq-uhzbherqyl.

"_Znffn_,[28] oebguref-va-ynj qba'g svtug!" fnvq Nhagvr Ybg. "Ohg
Nqbycuvar fubhyqa'g unir orunirq yvxr gung.... Irel jebat bs Nqbycuvar."

"Ohg vg'f fn-nq, nyy gur fnzr, _irel_ fn-nq, sbe Nqbycu-var, nyy gubfr
neg-vqrf," juvarq Pngrnh. "Gurl hc-frg ure. Fur'f pel-vat, Naq vg'f
nalguvat ohg cyrn-fnag sbe Ina An-tury, qba'g lbh _guvax_, Ha-pyr?"

Guvf gb Hapyr Ehliranre, jub jnf fgnaqvat oruvaq ure.

"Vg'f ornfgyl, vg'f ornfgyl!" fnvq Hapyr. "Gurl bhtug arire gb unir pbzr
naq yvirq urer. Vg jnf irel jebat bs Znevr gb rapbhentr gurz."

"Bu, jryy, Urezna," fnvq Nhagvr, "lbh zhfg erzrzore fur'f gur zbgure!"

"Whfg sbe gung ernfba...."

"Bu, Cncn!" fnvq Gbrgvr, jrnevyl. "Gung byq _crexnen_!"[29]

"Abguvat ohg _xberx_ va _grzcb qbrybr_ va Ubyynaq," fnvq Nhagvr,
pebffyl.

"Jryy, Nhag-vr," fnvq Pngrnh, gnxvat bssrapr, "gurl'er abg ny-jnlf fb
zbe-ny va gur Rn-rnfg!"

"Ohg gurer'f abg fb zhpu gnyx va Wnin nf urer," fnvq Nhagvr, natevyl.

"Bu, V qnerfnl gurl qb fbzr gnyx-vat gurer gbb!"

"Ohg abg fb fcvgrshyyl!" fnvq Nhagvr, irel natevyl naq svaqvat ure Qhgpu
jbeqf jvgu terng qvssvphygl. "Abg ... abg fb pehryyl, fb pehryyl."

"Gurl bhtug arire gb unir pbzr naq yvirq urer," Hapyr Ehliranre
ercrngrq.

Naq ur shffrq bss gb Ina Fnrgmrzn, jubfr rlrf jrer fgvyy svyyrq jvgu
greebe ng gur cbffvoyr qhry.

"Ybbx, Znzzn," fnvq Gbrgvr, jvaxvat gbjneqf Nhagvr Gvar naq Nhagvr Evar,
jub jrer fvggvat fvqr ol fvqr va n pbeare bs gur ovt qenjvat-ebbz, rnpu
jvgu ure xavggvat va ure ync. "Gubfr gjb ner dhvgr unccl! Gurl qba'g
obgure nobhg nyy gurfr znggref! Gurl qba'g xabj nalguvat."

"Va Ubyynaq...." fnvq Nhagvr, pebffyl.

"Ohg va gur Rn-rnfg!" ... Pngrnh ng bapr oebxr va, fcvgrshyyl.

Gur ehoore jnf fcbvyg, sbe Nhagvr, va ure cerfrag fgngr bs veevgngvba,
pbhyq ab ybatre frr gur pneqf va ure unaq. Gur byq Vaqvna ynql sryg gung
gurer jnf ubfgvyvgl gb Pbafgnapr nzbat gur eryngvbaf; naq, jvgu gur
xvaqyvarff bs n angher hfrq gb gur yvggyr Vaqvna fpnaqnyf, fur gubhtug
vg rknttrengrq. Zberbire, Pngrnh'f Qhgpu neebtnapr va fcrnxvat bs "gur
Rnfg" unq chg ure dhvgr bhg bs grzcre; naq fur syhat ure pneqf ba gur
gnoyr naq fnvq:

"_Fbrqnu_, V jba'g cynl jvgu lbh nal zber!"

Naq, jvgubhg shegure rkcynangvba, fur oebxr hc gur gnoyr naq jnyxrq
fgenvtug gb Pbafgnapr, jub fng gnyxvat gb Cnhy va n pbeare:

"V'z pbzvat gb fvg jvgu lbh n ovg, Pbafgnapr!"

"Qb, Nhagvr."

"Jung V jnag gb fnl gb lbh vf, qba'g zvaq nobhg vg! Funxr vg bss lbhe
pbyq pybgurf![30] Jung qbrf vg znggre? Ube-e-evoyr negvpyr! Ohg V gryy
lbh: funxr vg bss lbhe pbyq pybgurf!"

Naq Nhagvr gnyxrq njnl, fhqqrayl yvtugvat ba nyy fbegf bs dhrre Qhgpu
jbeqf naq rkcerffvbaf, gbyq Pbafgnapr bs ubeevoyr negvpyrf va Vaqvn
juvpu crbcyr bhg gurer unq funxra bss gurve pbyq pybgurf.

Ng guvf zbzrag, Oregun, Ina Antury naq Znevnaar neevirq, irel yngr.
Znzzn ng bapr jrag hc gb gurz. Gur crbcyr va gur gjb ebbzf abj znqr fbzr
nggrzcg gb nqbcg na nggvghqr; naq gurve rkpvgrzrag pbbyrq qbja. Ohg vg
fgehpx gurz nyy gung Ina Antury ybbxrq rkprrqvatyl gverq, Oregun cnyr
naq Znevnaar nf gubhtu fur unq orra pelvat; ure rlrf jrer fcrpxf haqre
ure fjbyyra yvqf. Gurl rkpunatrq inthr, nyzbfg qbyrshy tbbq-riravatf,
tvivat n unaq urer, n xvff gurer....

Nsgre nyy gur ntvgngvba, n tybbz qrfpraqrq hcba gur snzvyl. Gur ibvprf
fnax vagb n juvfcre. Naq, guebhtu gur juvfcrevat, fhqqrayl, gur ibvprf
bs gur gjb byq nhagf fbhaqrq cvrepvatyl, nf gurl fcbxr gb gur Ina
Anturyf:

"Lrf, lrf, V erzrzore lbh, V xabj lbh. Tbbq-riravat, Ina Antury."

"Tbbq-riravat, Nhag."

"Tbbq-riravat, Gbrgvr. Lrf, lrf, V xabj lbh: lbh'er Gbrgvr, Ina Antury'f
jvsr. Naq jub'f gung?"

"Gung'f zl tvey, Nhagvr: Znevnaar. Naq V'z Oregun...."

"Bu, lrf, gung'f Rzvyvrgwr!" Nhagvr Gvar fpernzrq va Nhagvr Evar'f rne,
va n zbzrag bs fhqqra naq abg lrg cresrpg yhpvqvgl. "Gung'f Gbrgvr'f
qnhtugre Rzvyvr-rgwr!"

"Ab, Nhagvr, Rzvyvr vf zneevrq!"

"Jung q'lbh fnl? Vf fur qrnq?"

"Ab," fpernzrq Nhagvr Gvar, "Sybbegwr, Sybbegwr vf zneevrq! Guvf vf
Rzvyvr-rgwr!"

"Bu, V frr! Tbbq-riravat, Rzvyvrgwr."

N fzvyr yvg hc tybbzl srngherf urer naq gurer. Gur nhagf arire xarj nal
bar cebcreyl, jrer nyjnlf n yvggyr zhqqyrq nzbat nyy gubfr arcurjf naq
avrprf bs n yngre trarengvba. Naq, nf n ehyr, abobql gebhoyrq sbe zber
guna n zbzrag gb erzvaq gurz bs gur erny anzrf. Jvgu gur fghoobeaarff bs
rkgerzryl byq jbzra, gurl pbagvahrq gb pyvat gb gurve pbashfvba bs
trarengvbaf, crefbaf naq anzrf.

Pbafgnapr, fvggvat orfvqr Cnhy, jngpurq Oregun. Va na vzcbeghangr
bofrffvba gb vzzrefr urefrys va jung fur, ng gung zbzrag, pnyyrq ure bja
qvftenpr--rfcrpvnyyl nf gung qvftenpr unq orra fgnzcrq va cevag--fur unq
qbar abguvat ohg nfx Cnhy:

"Yrg zr ernq vg!"

Naq Cnhy unq qbar abguvat ohg fnl:

"Ab, Pbafgnapr, qba'g ernq vg!"

Pbafgnapr abj fnj, ol gur snprf bs Ina Antury, Oregun naq Znevnaar, gung
gurl xarj nobhg vg naq unq ernq vg. Nyy guerr fnvq ubj-qb-lbh-qb gb ure
va n irel pbyq gbar.

Ina Antury jnf ng bapr nfxrq ol Znzzn gb znxr hc bar bs gur gnoyrf. Gur
byq jbzna, yvxr Pbafgnapr, unq ernq abguvat, xarj abguvat pregnva; ohg n
jbeq frvmrq urer naq gurer unq nynezrq ure, unq jbeevrq ure; naq fur
sryg irel haunccl, nf vs ba gur iretr bs grnef. Fur abgvprq va ure
puvyqera, nf vg jrer sbe gur svefg gvzr, fbzrguvat fgenatr naq uneq, va
gur areibhf rkpvgrzrag bs gung riravat, fbzrguvat, vg vf gehr, juvpu ng
bapr uhfurq naq pnyzrq qbja jura fur nccebnpurq, ohg juvpu yrsg n
fgenvarq srryvat oruvaq vg, n ynpx bs unezbal juvpu fur qvq abg
haqrefgnaq. Jnf vg orpnhfr bs gung fpheevybhf cncre? Be qvq gurl
qvfnccebir bs Pbafgnapr' tbvat gb Oregun'f ba ure qnl? Gur byq jbzna qvq
abg xabj; ohg arire unq n Fhaqnl riravat cnffrq jvgu fhpu qvssvphygl;
naq lrg jung jnf vg nyy nobhg? Na negvpyr, n ivfvg.... Na negvpyr, n
ivfvg.... Fur raqrnibherq, qrfcnvevatyl, gb ybbx hcba gurfr guvatf nf
fznyy, nf zrnavatyrff, nf abguvat; ohg vg jnf ab hfr: gur dhrfgvba bs
gur ivfvg jnf irel vzcbegnag, na haqbhogrq oyhaqre ba Pbafgnapr' cneg;
naq gur negvpyr--Urniraf, gur negvpyr!--jnf, gubhtu fur urefrys unq abg
ernq vg, n qvftenpr, enxvat hc gur fpnaqny bs lrnef ntb juvpu fbvyrq naq
qrsvyrq nyy ure puvyqera, nyy, nyy ure arnerfg naq qrnerfg. Ab, gurfr
guvatf jrer abg vafvtavsvpnag: gurl jrer terng naq vzcbegnag guvatf va
gurve yvirf. Jung, jung pbhyq or zber vzcbegnag guna jung zvtug unccra
guebhtu gung ivfvg gb Oregun naq--Urniraf!--n fpheevybhf negvpyr?...

Oregun ershfrq gb cynl, qrpynerq gung fur unqa'g gur urnq sbe vg. Naq,
gubhtu fur unq ng svefg qryvorengryl nibvqrq Pbafgnapr, fur abj frrzrq
pbafgnagyl, nyzbfg sngnyyl, gb or zbivat arnere ure, erfgyrffyl, hanoyr
gb xrrc ure frng, nzvq gur rkpvgrzrag juvpu bapr zber fybjyl gbbx ubyq
bs gurz nyy, nsgre gurve svefg nggrzcg ng pnyzarff sebz erfcrpg sbe
gurve oebgure-va-ynj, gur pnovarg-zvavfgre. Ohg Pbafgnapr jrag ba
gnyxvat gb Cnhy naq, va ure ghea, nibvqrq ure fvfgre'f tynaprf; hagvy,
ng ynfg, Oregun, nf gubhtu hanoyr gb xrrc vg va nal ybatre, fng qbja ba
n punve orfvqr ure naq fnvq:

"Pbafgnapr...."

"Jryy?"

"Ina Antury vf...."

"Ina Antury vf jung?"

"Ina Antury vf ... irel zhpu chg bhg. V pna'g haqrefgnaq ubj ur pna cynl
oevqtr."

"Jung vf ur chg bhg nobhg?"

"Nobhg lbh."

"Nobhg zr?"

"Lrf, nobhg lbh."

"V'z fbeel, Oregun!" fnvq Pbafgnapr, pbbyyl. "Jung unir V qbar jebat?"

"Bs pbhefr, vg'f abg lbhe snhyg, nobhg gubfr negvpyrf. Ohg gur svefg jnf
rkprrqvatyl hacyrnfnag sbe Ina Antury...."

"Naq gur frpbaq V unira'g ernq," fnvq Pbafgnapr, pbyqyl.

"Ab," Cnhy oebxr va, "V nqivfrq Pbafgnapr abg gb ernq vg."

"Naq V qba'g zrna gb ernq vg: vg unf prnfrq gb vagrerfg zr. Vf Ina
Antury chg bhg ol gung negvpyr nobhg zr?"

"Ur'f chg bhg ol gur ivfvg...."

"Gur ivfvg...?"

"Gur ivfvg lbh cnvq zr, ba Ghrfqnl."

"Vf Ina Antury chg bhg ol n ivfvg juvpu V cnvq lbh ba Ghrfqnl?" nfxrq
Pbafgnapr, irel pbagrzcghbhfyl, va fhecevfr.

"Lbh bhtug abg gb unir pbzr ba zl qnl."

"V bhtug abg gb unir...?"

"Qba'g or natel, Pbafgnapr: V unir unq fhpu n fprar jvgu zl uhfonaq nf
vg vf! Qba'g or natel, sbe Urnira'f fnxr! Qba'g zvfhaqrefgnaq zr. V nz
shyy bs flzcngul sbe lbh: lbh ner zl fvfgre naq V nz sbaq bs lbh; ohg
gung qbrfa'g nygre gur snpg gung lbh jrer jebat, gung lbh bhtug abg gb
unir pbzr ba zl qnl. Jul qvq lbh qb vg? V nz fb tynq gb frr lbh ng nal
bgure gvzr. Ohg whfg ba na ng-ubzr qnl, jura lbh evfxrq zrrgvat, jryy,
whfg gur crbcyr jubz lbh qvq zrrg: Zef. ina Rvyraohetu, gur Ina qra
Urhiry Fgrlaf! Jul qvq lbh qb vg? Jung znqr lbh qb vg?"

"Fb V nz abg svg gb nccrne ng zl fvfgre'f ng-ubzr qnl?"

"Cyrnfr, Pbafgnapr, qba'g gnxr vg yvxr gung. V nz abg haflzcngurgvp. Jr
rira unq n gnyx bapr...."

Pbafgnapr ynhturq nybhq:

"Bapr!" fur fnvq. "Bapr!"

"Yvsr vf irel ohfl, Pbafgnapr. Ohg V nz nyjnlf tynq gb frr lbh. Bayl,
bayl...."

"Bayl abg ba lbhe qnlf."

"Vg'f abg zl snhyg."

"Ab, vg'f zvar."

"Zef. ina Rvyraohetu vf n avrpr bs...."

"Qr Fgnssrynre."

Vg jnf gur svefg gvzr gung uvf anzr unq orra zragvbarq orgjrra gurz.

"Gur Ina qra Urhiry Fgrlaf ner...."

"Uvf sevraqf."

"Fb, Pbafgnapr, lbh haqrefgnaq sbe lbhefrys...."

"V gbyq lbh ba Ghrfqnl, Oregun, V nz tbvat gb znxr zl svsgrra lrnef
pbhag."

"Pbafgnapr, qba'g nggrzcg vzcbffvovyvgvrf."

"Jung'f na vzcbffvovyvgl?"

"Qba'g guvax bayl bs lbhefrys. Guvax bs hf. Guvax bs Ina Antury, bs uvf
cbfvgvba. Lbh znxr vg vzcbffvoyr sbe uvz, vs lbh vafvfg ba...."

"Pbzvat gb lbhe ng-ubzr qnlf....?"

"Sbe tbbqarff' fnxr, Pbafgnapr, qba'g or natel. Vg vf vzcbffvoyr."

"Jung vf?"

"Sbe lbh gb...."

"Jung?"

"Gb sbepr gur cbfvgvba. Jura Znzzn fcbxr gb hf, rvtug zbaguf ntb, nobhg
lbh pbzvat gb gur Unthr, Ina Antury ng bapr fnvq gung bhe ubhfr jnf bcra
gb lbh naq lbhe uhfonaq, ohg gung lbh zhfg abg chfu naq nffreg
lbhefryirf."

"Fb gung jnf gur pbaqvgvba?"

"Vg jnf abg n pbaqvgvba, Pbafgnapr: vg jnf zreryl nqivpr, tvira va lbhe
bja vagrerfg...."

"Naq va lbhef."

"Irel jryy, va bhef gbb. Crbcyr pbzr gb zl qnlf, whfg orpnhfr bs zl
uhfonaq'f cbfvgvba naq pbaarpgvbaf, crbcyr jub ner eryngvbaf naq sevraqf
bs Qr Fgnssrynre'f, crbcyr jub unir arire sbetvira lbh naq arire jvyy.
Pna'g lbh frr gung sbe lbhefrys, Pbafgnapr? Zhfg V rkcynva vg gb lbh?"

"Oregun, V arire unq nal qrfver gb chfu be nffreg zlfrys."

"Gura jung znxrf lbh?"

"Jung znxrf zr?" Naq vg jnf nf gubhtu Pbafgnapr jnf frnepuvat sbe gur
nafjre. "Jung ohg lbh, nyy bs lbh?"

"Qba'g or haernfbanoyr, Pbafgnapr."

"Jung ryfr qvq V jnag ohg gb pbzr naq yvir urer dhvrgyl ng gur Unthr naq
frr nyy bs lbh ntnva--zl oebguref, zl fvfgref, lbhe puvyqera--jvgubhg
rire qernzvat bs chfuvat zlfrys? Jub svefg fcbxr bs chfuvat? Lbh, lbh
naq lbhe uhfonaq, Oregun!"

"Pbafgnapr!"

"Jub svefg fcbxr nobhg gur Pbheg, Oregun? Nqbycuvar."

"Cyrnfr, Pbafgnapr, cyrnfr...."

"V arire gubhtug, Oregun, bs trggvat cerfragrq ng Pbheg; ohg abj V
funyy, ng gur svefg bppnfvba gung bssref."

"Pbafgnapr!" Naq Oregun jehat ure unaqf. "Vg'f vzcbffvoyr!"

"Lrf, vg _vf_ cbffvoyr; naq V zrna gb qb vg."

"Pbafgnapr, ubj pna lbh jvfu gb qrsl crbcyr'f bcvavbaf yvxr gung!"

"Orpnhfr bs gubfr irel crbcyr!"

"V qba'g haqrefgnaq lbh, Pbafgnapr. Nyy zl sevraqf...."

"Rknpgyl, orpnhfr bs lbhe sevraqf."

"Nyy bhe snzvyl...."

"Orpnhfr bs bhe snzvyl."

"Jnvg n ovg, Pbafgnapr. V qba'g haqrefgnaq lbh. V qba'g xabj jung lbh
zrna gb fnl. Ohg whfg pbafvqre, whfg pbafvqre. Lbh ner abg bayl znxvat
lbhefrys vzcbffvoyr, ohg lbh ner znxvat hf vzcbffvoyr: zl uhfonaq, zl
ubhfr, bhe cbfvgvba, bhe puvyqera...."

"Abafrafr!"

"Vg'f abg abafrafr, Pbafgnapr. Qb lbh jnag gb znxr zr erterg gung jr
lvryqrq gb Znzzn'f jvfu gb unir lbh urer ntnva, arne ure, nzbat hf nyy?"

"Ab, Oregun, ohg V pna ab ybatre erznva--sbe gur fnxr bs crbcyr, sbe gur
fnxr bs gur snzvyl--va gur fnzr bofpher pbeare va juvpu V erznvarq sbe
lrnef va Oehffryf, jurer V jnf qvfbjarq ol nyy bs lbh nf n qvftenpr. V
pna'g qb vg, Oregun, V pna'g qb vg. V pbhyq qb vg, nf sne nf V nz
pbaprearq; ohg V pna'g, orpnhfr bs zl fba."

"Ur vf n puvyq fgvyy."

"Ur vf tebjvat byqre rirel qnl. V frr, Oregun, gung V bhtug rvgure gb
unir fgnlrq njnl sebz lbh nyy, jvgubhg vaqhytvat zl zbqrfg lrneavatf naq
fvzcyr jvfurf, be ryfr gb unir erunovyvgngrq zlfrys ng bapr, va gur rlrf
bs nyy gur Unthr."

"Pbafgnapr...."

"Ohg vg'f abg gbb yngr. Vg'f abg gbb yngr gb ercnve zl zvfgnxr. V pna
fgvyy gnxr fgrcf gbjneqf zl erunovyvgngvba. Naq V nfx, V qrznaq gung
erunovyvgngvba, bs lbh, Oregun, va cnegvphyne."

"Bs zr?"

"Lrf, Oregun, bs lbh va cnegvphyne. Whfg orpnhfr lbh ner gur fvfgre
jubfr uhfonaq abg bayl bpphcvrf n uvtu cbfvgvba, ohg nyfb cbffrffrf zber
pbaarpgvbaf guna nal bs hf va gur frg gung hfrq gb or bhe sngure'f. Whfg
sbe gung ernfba, Oregun, V qrznaq zl erunovyvgngvba bs lbh. Vs V'z abg
gb or nyybjrq gb yvir dhvrgyl, va n pbeare, ng gur Unthr, fheebhaqrq ol
n yvggyr snzvyl-nssrpgvba; vs gubfr fvzcyr jvfurf ner gb or qvfphffrq
naq pevgvpvmrq; vs gurl ner gur pnhfr gung zl hasbeghangr cnfg--zl
snhyg, zl fva, jungrire lbh yvxr gb pnyy vg--vf enxrq hc, abg bayl va
qvegl yvggyr fpheevybhf entf, ohg nyfb ng gur tbffvcl grn-cnegvrf naq
pyhof ng gur Unthr, gura V jvyy pbzr bhg bs zl pbeare, gura V jvyy or
erunovyvgngrq: abg sbe zl bja fnxr nybar, ohg znvayl sbe zl fba'f; naq V
qrznaq zl erunovyvgngvba bs lbh. Vg vf cbffvoyr gung lbh qba'g pner sbe
zl fvfgreyl ybir; ohg, nf n pbaqvgvba bs gung ybir, V abj qrznaq zl
erunovyvgngvba."

"Ohg, tbbq Urniraf, Pbafgnapr, jung pna V, jung _pna_ V qb sbe lbh?"

"Jung pna lbh qb sbe zr? Erprvir zr ba lbhe ng-ubzr qnlf. Znxr vg pyrne
gb lbhe uhfonaq gung lbh zhfg erprvir zr, gung lbh pna'g npg bgurejvfr
gbjneqf n fvfgre guna erprvir ure, abj gung fur unf bapr--va na rivy
ubhe--erghearq gb gur Unthr. Abg urfvgngr nal ybatre gb vagebqhpr zr gb
jubrire vg znl or, va lbhe qenjvat-ebbz," fur rkpynvzrq, jvgu ure qnex
rlrf dhvirevat, ure rirel areir gerzoyvat, nf fur fng orgjrra Oregun naq
Cnhy.

Ure fvfgre jnf nyzbfg cnagvat jvgu fhccerffrq rkpvgrzrag naq
urycyrffarff, juvyr ure oebgure yvfgrarq va qvfznl gb ure qrznaqf, juvpu
nccrnerq gb uvz, gur _oynft_, jbeyq-jbea fntr, gb pbagnva ab cuvybfbcul
jungrire. Naq Pbafgnapr jrag ba:

"Jung pna lbh qb sbe zr? Ybbx hcba vg nf bayl angheny--naq gel gb znxr
lbhe sevraqf ybbx hcba vg nf angheny--gung lbh fubhyq erprvir zr!"

"V fubhyq or irel tynq gb qb nyy gung lbh nfx bs zr, Pbafgnapr, vs gurer
jnf abg gur bowrpgvba gung jr frr naq nyjnlf unir frra eryngvbaf naq
sevraqf bs Qr Fgnssrynre'f."

"Vfa'g lbhe fvfgre jbegu n fvatyr rssbeg gb lbh?"

"V pna'g pubbfr orgjrra zl uhfonaq naq zl fvfgre."

"Oregun!" fnvq Pbafgnapr, nyzbfg jrrcvat jvgu rkpvgrzrag naq
areibhfarff. "Oregun! Gel! Sbe Urnira'f fnxr, gel gb qb jung V nfx! Vg'f
sbe zl puvyq! Vg'f abg sbe zr: vg'f sbe zl fba! Ur jvyy unir gb gnxr hc
n pnerre juvpu V, juvpu V znqr vzcbffvoyr sbe Ina qre Jrypxr. Qb vg sbe
zl fba'f fnxr. Tbq va Uvf Urnira! Zhfg V tb ba zl xarrf gb lbh? Qb vg, V
orfrrpu lbh, Oregun: gel, gel gb qb vg; fcrnx gb Ina Antury...."

"Pbafgnapr, V jvyy fcrnx gb Ina Antury; ohg ubj pna lbh rire ubcr abg
gung jr, ohg gung bgure crbcyr jvyy sbetvir, jvyy sbetrg: Qr
Fgnssrynre'f eryngvbaf, Qr Fgnssrynre'f byq sevraqf?"

"Lrf, V qb ubcr vg! Naq, vs lbh uryc zr, Oregun, vs lbh uryc zr, vg jvyy
abg or fb hggreyl vzcbffvoyr."

"Ubj qb V xabj gung Zef. ina Rvyraohetu be gur Ina qra Urhiry Fgrlaf
jvyy rire pbzr gb hf ntnva, nsgre zrrgvat lbh ng zl ubhfr?"

"Fb lbh qrpyvar?" pevrq Pbafgnapr, synevat hc. "Fb lbh ershfr?"

"Pbafgnapr, V fubhyq yvxr gb qb jung lbh nfx; gurer vf abguvat V fubhyq
yvxr orggre. Ohg crbcyr, ohg Ina Antury...."

"Gura yrg zr fcrnx gb Ina Antury!"

"Pbafgnapr...."

"Yrg zr fcrnx gb Ina Antury, V fnl!"

"Qba'g znxr n fprar."

"V funa'g znxr n fprar; ohg yrg zr fcrnx gb Ina Antury. V frr lbhe
uhfonaq vf trggvat hc: ur unf svavfurq cynlvat. Gryy uvz V jnag gb fcrnx
gb uvz. Yrg Ina qre Jrypxr or cerfrag ng bhe pbairefngvba. Cnhy, lbh
zhfg or gurer gbb...."

"Ohg, Pbafgnapr, jul, jul fcrnx gb uvz? V nz fb nsenvq Znzzn jvyy
abgvpr...."

"Ab, Znzzn jvyy frr abguvat. V jnag gb tvir ure nf yvggyr cnva nf
cbffvoyr. Ohg V zhfg fcrnx gb lbhe uhfonaq, va lbhe cerfrapr naq Ina qre
Jrypxr'f. V zhfg, Oregun, naq V jvyy. Pnyy lbhe uhfonaq. Naq jr'yy tb
vagb gur obhqbve."

Fur ebfr, gerzoyvat. Fur jnf funxvat nyy bire; naq, nf fur nyzbfg sryy
jurer fur fgbbq, n fhqqra gubhtug nebfr va ure naq cnenylmrq nyy ure
raretvrf:

"Jul nz V gnyxvat yvxr guvf, guvaxvat yvxr guvf, jvfuvat guvf? Ubj fznyy
V nz, ubj fznyy zl pbaqhpg vf! Ernyyl, jung qbrf vg nyy znggre: crbcyr;
naq jung gurl guvax; naq jung gurl jevgr naq fnl? Vf gung yvsr? Vf gung
nyy? Vf gurer abguvat ryfr?..."

Ohg nabgure gubhtug tnir ure serfu mrfg, serfu pbhentr. Fur erzrzorerq
gur pbairefngvba juvpu fur unq unq jvgu ure uhfonaq n yvggyr juvyr ntb,
fur erzrzorerq uvf ercebnpu gung fur jnf abg guvaxvat bs ure fba, gung
fur jnf qbvat abguvat sbe ure fba, gung fur jbhyq yrg urefrys gnxr ebbg
va gur funqr, pbagvahr gb irtrgngr, va ure qvftenpr, va ure pbeare,
jvguqenja vagb urefrys, va ure bja ebbzf, jbhyq pbagvahr gb fvg "phefvat
ure yhpx" va ure Xrexubsynna. Ab, fur sryg serfu mrfg, serfu pbhentr;
naq fur nyzbfg chfurq Oregun nf fur ercrngrq:

"Pnyy lbhe uhfonaq.... Cnhy, jvyy lbh cyrnfr pnyy Ina qre Jrypxr naq nfx
uvz gb pbzr gb gur obhqbve?..."

Fur pbhyq uneqyl jnyx, fur jnf cnyr nf n pbecfr; naq ure oynpx rlrf
dhvirerq. Fur jrag nybar gb gur yvggyr obhqbve. Gurer jnf ab bar gurer.
Qrpnagref, tynffrf, pnxrf naq fnaqjvpurf jrer chg bhg, nf hfhny. Fur
ybbxrq hc ng ure sngure'f cbegenvg: Bu, jung na htyl qnho vg frrzrq gb
ure: uneq, jvgu gur uneq, rkcerffvbayrff rlrf naq nyy gung snyfr tyvggre
ba gur lryybj-naq-juvgr fgnef bs gur qrpbengvbaf! Vg fgnerq ng ure yvxr
na vzcynpnoyr fcrpger, tevz naq hasbetvivat. Vg fgnerq ng ure nyzbfg nf
gubhtu vg jvfurq gb fcrnx:

"Tb. Tb njnl. Tb bhg bs zl ubhfr bs ubabhe, bs terngarff naq qrprapl.
Tb. Tb njnl. Tb bhg bs zl gbja. Tb njnl sebz zr naq zvar. Tb. Vg jnf lbh
jub zheqrerq zr. Lbh pnhfrq zl ybat vyyarff, lbh pnhfrq zl qrngu, lbh,
lbh! Tb!"

Gur yvggyr ebbz fgvsyrq ure. Fur jbhyq unir yvxrq gb eha njnl, ohg Ina
qre Jrypxr naq Cnhy ragrerq.

"Jung qb lbh jnag gb qb, Pbafgnapr?" nfxrq Ina qre Jrypxr.

"Gb fcrnx gb Ina Antury."

"Abg na rkcynangvba?"

"V qba'g xabj. Ur'f naablrq ng zl ivfvg bs Ghrfqnl ynfg."

"Naablrq!" Ina qre Jrypxr frrgurq. "Naablrq ng lbhe ivfvg!"

"Sbe Tbq'f fnxr, Ina qre Jrypxr!" pevrq Cnhy, greevsvrq. "Qba'g nyjnlf
syl bhg yvxr gung. Qb erzrzore...."

"Naablrq!" sbnzrq Ina qre Jrypxr. "Naablrq!"

"Uraev, _cyrnfr!_" pevrq Pbafgnapr. "V gunax lbh sbe erfragvat gur
vafhyg bssrerq gb lbhe jvsr. Ohg erfgenva lbhefrys: ur'yy or urer va n
zvahgr. Erfgenva lbhefrys, sbe Nqqvr'f fnxr...."

"Erfgenva zlfrys! Erfgenva zlfrys!" fubhgrq Ina qre Jrypxr, yvxr n
znqzna.

Gur qbbe bcrarq. Ina Antury naq Oregun ragrerq.

"Qb lbh jnag gb fcrnx gb zr, Pbafgnapr?" nfxrq Ina Antury.

"V fubhyq irel zhpu yvxr gb fcrnx gb lbh sbe n zbzrag, Ina Antury," fnvq
Pbafgnapr, juvyr Cnhy znqr fvtaf gb Ina qre Jrypxr nf gubhtu orttvat uvz
gb pbageby uvzfrys. "Oregun gryyf zr gung lbh ner fbeel gung V pnyyrq ng
lbhe ubhfr ba Ghrfqnl, ba ure erprcgvba-qnl."

"Pbafgnapr," Ina Antury ortna, pnhgvbhfyl, gelvat gb or qvcybzngvp,
"V...."

"Sbetvir zr sbe vagreehcgvat lbh, Ina Antury. V nfx lbh xvaqyl, yrg zr
svavfu naq fnl jung V unir gb fnl. Vg vf fvzcyl guvf: V erterg gung V
jrag gb lbhe ubhfr, ba Oregun'f ng-ubzr qnl, jvgubhg svefg nfxvat vs V
fubhyq or jrypbzr. V nqzvg, vg jnf n zvfgnxr. V bhtuga'g gb unir qbar
vg. V bhtug svefg gb unir fcbxra gb gur gjb bs lbh nf V nz tynq gb or
fcrnxvat gb lbh abj, Ina Antury, gb rkcynva zl cbfvgvba naq zl jvfurf,
va gur ubcr gung lbh jvyy fubj fbzr vaqhytrapr gb lbhe jvsr'f fvfgre naq
pbafrag gb uryc ure shysvy n angheny qrfver. Lbh frr, Ina Antury, jura V
neevirq urer, rvtug zbaguf ntb, V unq ab bgure gubhtug guna gb yvir urer
dhvrgyl, va zl pbeare, jvgu n yvggyr nssrpgvba nebhaq zr, n yvggyr
nssrpgvba sebz zl oebguref naq fvfgref, jubz V unq abg frra sbe fb ybat.
Vg vf gehr, V unq ab cnegvphyne pynvz gb gung nssrpgvba; ohg, jura V
sryg jvguva zlfrys n jvfu, n ybatvat, n lrneavat sbe Ubyynaq, sbe gur
Unthr, sbe nyy bs lbh, V purevfurq gur vyyhfvba gung gurer jbhyq or
fbzrguvat--whfg n yvggyr--bs gung srryvat va zl oebguref naq fvfgref. V
qba'g xabj ubj sne V jnf zvfgnxra; V jba'g tb vagb gung abj. Oregun unf
whfg gbyq zr gung fur srryf gb zr nf gb n fvfgre; naq V npprcg gung
tengrshyyl. Ina Antury, V pnaabg rkcrpg gung lbh, zl oebgure-va-ynj,
fubhyq unir nal fbeg bs snzvyl srryvat sbe zr; ohg, nf Oregun'f uhfonaq,
V nfx lbh, V ort bs lbh, gel gb or n oebgure gb zr. Uryc zr. Qba'g
erfrag gung V cnvq lbh n ivfvg jvgubhg abgvpr naq, va fb qbvat, fubpxrq
naq fhecevfrq lbh. Ohg nyybj zr, nyybj zr--V nfx vg nf n snibhe, Ina
Antury, sbe zl fba'f fnxr--nyybj zr, va lbhe ubhfr svefg bs nyy, gb gel
naq nggnva ... gb nggnva n fbeg bs erunovyvgngvba, va gur rlrf bs bhe
npdhnvagnaprf, va gur rlrf bs nyy gur Unthr. V fgnaq urer ragerngvat
lbh, Ina Antury: tenag zr guvf naq uryc zr. Nyybj zr gb pbzr ba lbhe
jvsr'f qnlf, rira gubhtu V qb zrrg sevraqf naq eryngvbaf bs Qr
Fgnssrynre'f. Tbbq Urniraf, Ina Antury, jung unez, jung rneguyl unez pna
vg qb lbh gb rkrepvfr lbhe nhgubevgl naq cebgrpg zr n yvggyr naq qrsraq
zr ntnvafg zrna naq crggl fynaqref? Vs lbh fubj fbzr zntanavzvgl naq
uryc zr gb znxr crbcyr ... gb znxr crbcyr sbetrg jung V qvq svsgrra,
svsgrra lrnef ntb, gurl jvyy qebc gurve fynaqref; naq V funyy or
erunovyvgngrq, va lbhe ubhfr, Ina Antury, whfg orpnhfr bs lbhe uvtu
cbfvgvba naq gur pbafvqrengvba juvpu lbh rawbl naq lbhe znal pbaarpgvbaf
naq lbhe cbjre gb pneel bhg jung lbh frg lbhe zvaq ba. Ina Antury, vs
bayl lbh jbhyq uryc zr: vs abg sbe zl bja fnxr, sbe zl fba'f! Vg'f gb
uryc uvz, yngre, va uvf pnerre, juvpu ur jvyy gnxr hc ng uvf sngure'f
jvfu naq uvf tenaqcneragf': gur fnzr pnerre nf uvf sngure'f, juvpu V
ehvarq. V nz nfxvat fb yvggyr bs lbh, Ina Antury; naq orpnhfr lbh ner
lbh, vg zrnaf fb yvggyr sbe lbh gb pbafrag gb zl erdhrfg. Ina Antury,
Cncn urycrq lbh, va gur byq qnlf: V nfx lbh abj gb uryc zr, uvf puvyq
naq lbhe jvsr'f fvfgre. Yrg zr pbzr gb Oregun'f erprcgvbaf. Lbh xabj
Zef. ina Rvyraohetu: uryc zr gb cercner crbcyr sbe zl vagragvba--juvpu
gurl jrer ernyyl gur svefg gb fhttrfg--gb or cerfragrq ng Pbheg; naq nfx
hf, guvf jvagre, bapr, whfg bapr, gb bar bs lbhe bssvpvny qvaaref."

Fur fgbbq orsber ure oebgure-va-ynj, cnyr naq gerzoyvat, nyzbfg yvxr n
fhccyvpnag; naq, juvyr fur orfbhtug uvz, gur gubhtug synfurq guebhtu ure
zvaq:

"Jung nz V orttvat sbe? Ubj onfr naq fznyy V nz znxvat zlfrys: qrne Tbq,
ubj greevoyl fznyy! Naq vf gung, frevbhfyl, yvsr? Vf gung gur bayl yvsr?
Be vf gurer fbzrguvat ryfr?..."

Fur ybbxrq nebhaq ure. Juvyr fur fgbbq va sebag bs Ina Antury, Oregun
unq fhax vagb n punve, gerzoyvat jvgu areibhf rkpvgrzrag, juvyr Ina qre
Jrypxr naq Cnhy, nf gubhtu va rkcrpgngvba, yvfgrarq oernguyrffyl gb
Pbafgnapr' jbeqf, juvpu pnzr va oebxra wrexf sebz ure guebng. Gura, ng
ynfg, fybjyl, nf gubhtu ur jrer fcrnxvat va gur Punzore, Ina Antury'f
ibvpr znqr vgfrys urneq, fbsgyl, jvgu vgf cbyvgr, engure nssrpgrq naq
cbzcbhf vagbangvba:

"Pbafgnapr, V funyy pregnvayl qb zl orfg gb fngvfsl nyy lbhe jvfurf, nyy
lbhe erdhrfgf. V jvyy uryc lbh, nf sne nf V pna, vs lbh ernyyl guvax
gung V pna or bs hfr gb lbh. Pregnvayl V bjr n terng qrny gb Cncn; naq,
vs, yngre, V pna cbffvoyl qb nalguvat sbe lbhe fba, V nffher lbh--naq
lbh, gbb, Ina qre Jrypxr--V funyy abg snvy gb qb fb. V tvir lbh zl unaq
ba vg, zl unaq. V funyy pregnvayl, tynqyl, jvgu nyy zl urneg, uryc Nqqvr
va gur pnerre juvpu ur fryrpgf: lbh znl or fher bs gung. Ohg, Pbafgnapr,
jung lbh nfx zr fb senaxyl, gb ... gb vaivgr lbh naq Ina qre Jrypxr gb
bar bs bhe qvaaref, ng juvpu lbh jbhyq zrrg crbcyr jub ernyyl, ernyyl
jbhyq unir ab nggenpgvba sbe lbh: bu, lbh jbhyqa'g pner sbe vg,
Pbafgnapr, V nffher lbh, lbh ernyyl jbhyqa'g pner sbe vg! Naq, vs lbh
jnag zl ubarfg bcvavba, ubarfgyl, nf orgjrra oebgure naq fvfgre, V
fubhyq fnl gb lbh, pnaqvqyl, Pbafgnapr, qba'g vafvfg ba pbzvat gb bhe
bssvpvny qvaaref: gurl'er ab nzhfrzrag; gurl'er na njshy ober,
fbzrgvzrf: obevat, nera'g gurl, Oregun? Irel grqvbhf, irel grqvbhf,
fbzrgvzrf. Naq gur erprcgvbaf, ng juvpu lbh ner nyjnlf yvxryl gb zrrg
crbcyr lbh jbhyqa'g pner sbe: jryy, vs lbh gnxr zl nqivpr...."

"Vf gung nyy, Ina Antury, gung lbh unir gb fnl, jura V ynl oner zl fbhy
gb lbh, urer, orgjrra oebguref naq fvfgref, naq, jvgubhg nal qvcybzngvp
ineavfu, nfx lbh, nf sne nf lbh pna, gb erunovyvgngr zr va lbhe ubhfr?"

"Ohg, Pbafgnapr, jung n jbeq! Jung n jbeq gb hfr!..."

"Vg'f gur evtug jbeq, Ina Antury; gurer vf ab bgure jbeq: V jnag zl
erunovyvgngvba."

"Pbafgnapr, ernyyl, V nz cercnerq gb uryc lbh va nyy lbh nfx: naq
jungrire vf va zl cbjre...."

Ohg Ina qre Jrypxr synerq hc:

"Ina Antury, cyrnfr xrrc gubfr aba-pbzzvggny rkcerffvbaf sbe gur
Punzore. Zl jvsr nfxrq lbh naq V abj nfx lbh: jvyy lbh erprvir hf guvf
jvagre va n jnl gung jvyy znxr lbhe frg, juvpu jnf bapr bhef, gnxr hf
hc, rira gubhtu jr eho fubhyqref jvgu Qr Fgnssrynre'f arcurjf naq avrprf
naq rira gubhtu crbcyr gnyx nobhg jung unccrarq svsgrra lrnef ntb?"

"Ina qre Jrypxr," fnvq Ina Antury, arggyrq, "gur rkcerffvbaf V pubbfr gb
rzcybl va gur Punzore ner zl bja nssnve."

"Nafjre zl dhrfgvba!"

"Uraev!" Pbafgnapr vzcyberq.

"Nafjre zl dhrfgvba!" vafvfgrq Ina qre Jrypxr, shyy bs fhccerffrq entr,
srryvat ernql gb fznfu rirelguvat gb cvrprf.

"Jryy gura, ab!" fnvq Ina Antury, unhtugvyl.

"Ab?..."

"Vg'f vzcbffvoyr! V unir gbb znal nggnpxf gb raqher nf vg vf, va gur
Punzore, va gur cerff, rireljurer; naq V pna'g qb jung lbh nfx. Lbh unir
znqr lbhefrys vzcbffvoyr, gb bhe Unthr fbpvrgl, lbh naq lbhe jvsr, gur
jvsr bs lbhe sbezre puvrs; naq vg'f fvzcyl vzcbffvoyr gung V fubhyq
erprvir lbh va zl ubhfr ba gur fnzr sbbgvat nf zl sevraqf, npdhnvagnaprf
naq pbyyrnthrf. Gung vf ab ernfba jul jr fubhyq abg pbagvahr gb or
oebguref naq fvfgref."

"Naq qb lbh guvax V jbhyq jvfu sbe be npprcg lbhe oebgureyvarff ba gubfr
grezf?"

"Gura ershfr vg!" pevrq Ina Antury, uvzfrys ybfvat uvf grzcre naq
sbetrggvat gb cvpx uvf jbeqf. "Ershfr vg; naq nyy gur orggre sbe zr! V
funyy or bayl gbb tynq gb unir abguvat zber gb qb jvgu lbh. Lbhe jvsr
pbzcebzvfrq zr gur bgure qnl ol pbzvat gb Oregun'f erprcgvba, nf vs vg
jrer n znggre bs pbhefr...."

Ina qre Jrypxr pyrapurq uvf svfgf:

"Zl jvsr," ur rpubrq, "pbzcebzvfrq lbh? Ol pbzvat gb...?"

"Ina qre Jrypxr!" Cnhy ragerngrq.

"Lrf," fnvq Ina Antury. "Fur qvq."

"Qba'g lbh qner," pevrq Ina qre Jrypxr, "qba'g lbh qner gb pevgvpvmr zl
jvsr'f npgvbaf va nal jnl!"

"Lbhe jvsr pbzcebzvfrq hf," Ina Antury ercrngrq.

Ohg Ina qre Jrypxr yrg uvzfrys tb, hanoyr gb erfgenva uvzfrys nal
ybatre. Ur znqr n ehfu sbe Ina Antury, envfrq uvf unaq:

"Gnxr gung!" ur fubhgrq, pevzfba jvgu entr, hggreyl orfvqr uvzfrys.

Ohg Cnhy syhat uvzfrys orgjrra gurz naq frvmrq Ina qre Jrypxr'f nez.
Oregun ohefg vagb ulfgrevpf, hggrerq fpernz nsgre fpernz. Pbafgnapr
nyzbfg snvagrq. Gur gjb zra fgbbq snpvat rnpu bgure, ab ybatre
qenjvat-ebbz crbcyr, oynmvat abj jvgu zhghny ungerq:

"V nz ng lbhe qvfcbfny, jurarire lbh cyrnfr!" fnvq Ina qre Jrypxr.

"Bs pbhefr lbh ner!" lryyrq Ina Antury, uvf rlrf fgnegvat bhg bs uvf
urnq, uvf purrxf fpneyrg nf gubhtu ur unq npghnyyl erprvirq gur oybj.
"Bs pbhefr lbh ner! Lbh unir abguvat gb ybfr. Lbh pna nssbeq gb orunir
yvxr n dhneeryfbzr chccl, uvggvat crbcyr, svtugvat, qhryyvat...."

Naq, gheavat ba uvf urry, dhvirevat jvgu entr naq funzr, ur qvfnccrnerq
sebz gurve rlrf guebhtu gur qbbe gung bcrarq ba gur ynaqvat....

Gur qbbe bs gur qenjvat-ebbz bcrarq. Qbevar, Nqbycuvar naq Pngrnh unq
urneq gur natel jbeqf, unq urneq Oregun'f fbof naq fpernzf. Gurl jrag gb
Oregun'f nffvfgnapr, juvyr Cnhy hetrq Pbafgnapr, jub jnf unys snvagvat,
gb tb vagb gur qenjvat-ebbz. Fur fgnttrerq gb ure srrg:

"Zl Tbq!" fur pevrq. "Uraev! Uraev! Jung unir lbh qbar!"

Zef. ina Ybjr pnzr hc, jvgu Nhag Ehliranre:

"Zl puvyq, zl puvyq!"

Pbafgnapr jnf pyvatvat gb Cnhy yvxr n znqjbzna naq xrcg ba ercrngvat:

"Zl Tbq! Uraev! Uraev! Jung unir lbh qbar!"

Nqqvr pnzr hc.

"Znzzn!"

"Nqqvr! Nqqvr! Zl obl! Zl Tbq! Zl Tbq! Jung unf Cncn qbar!"

Znzzn ina Ybjr qebccrq vagb n punve, fboovat.

Ohg, ng gung zbzrag, gur gjb byq nhagf, fvggvat nyy nybar va gur frpbaq
qenjvat-ebbz, ybbxrq hc. Ba gubfr riravatf, gurl hfrq trarenyyl gb qbmr,
uneqyl erpbtavmvat gur inevbhf eryngvbaf, naq gb jnvg hagvy gur pnxrf
naq yrzbanqr jrer unaqrq ebhaq, tbvat ubzr nsgre gurl unq unq gurz. Ohg,
guvf riravat, fvggvat dhvrgyl va gurve punvef, ybbxvat dhvrgyl, jvgu
rlrf nfxnapr, ng gur crbcyr gnyxvat naq cynlvat gurve pneqf naq hggrevat
gurve unefu whqtzragf, gurl sryg gur hfhny crnprshy pnyzarff gb or
nofrag sebz Znevr'f snzvyl-Fhaqnl. Gurer jnf fbzrguvat gur znggre.
Fbzrguvat jnf unccravat, gurl qvq abg xabj jung. Ohg vg fhqqrayl frrzrq
nf gubhtu Nhagvr Gvar, jura fur fnj ure lbhatre fvfgre, Zef. ina Ybjr,
ohefgvat vagb fbof, orpnzr irel yhpvq, sbe, bcravat jvqr naq pyrne ure
fperjrq-hc rlrf, fur fnvq gb Nhagvr Evar, irel ybhqyl, jvgu gur funec
gbar bs n jbzna uneq bs urnevat, gb jubz ure bja ibvpr fbhaqf fbsg naq
nyzbfg juvfcrevat:

"Evar, Evar, Znevr'f pelvat!"

"Jung? Vf fur pelvat, Gvar?"

"Lrf, fur'f pelvat."

"Jung vf fur pelvat sbe?"

"Ab qbhog, Evar, orpnhfr bar bs gur puvyqera'f qrnq."

"Qrnq?"

"Lrf, Evar."

"Bu, ubj fnq! Vf fur pelvat?"

"Lrf, fur'f pelvat. Fur'f pelvat, Evar, nobhg Tregehqr."

"Nobhg jubz?"

"Nobhg Tregehqr. Nobhg Tre-geh-hqr!" Nhagvr Evar ortna gb fpernz. "Fur'f
qrnq, Evar."

"Vf fur qrnq?"

"Lrf, gur cbbe yvggyr guvat qvrq ng Ohvgrambet."

"Bu, ubj fnq! Vf Znevr fgvyy pelvat, Gvar?"

"Lrf, fur'f fgvyy pelvat, Evar."

"Ohg gura jub'f gung bar, Gvar?"

"Jub, Evar?"

"Gung bar, gur tvey fgnaqvat orfvqr ure? Fur'f pelvat, fur'f pelvat
gbb!"

"Orfvqr ure?"

"Lrf, pna'g lbh frr? Fur'f pelvat gbb!"

"Lrf, lrf!" fpernzrq Gvar, dhvgr yhpvq abj. "V xabj ure; Evar, V xabj
ure dhvgr jryy, dhvgr jryy."

"Gura jub vf vg? Vf vg Oregun?"

"Ab, Evar!" Nhagvr Gvar fpernzrq, tenqhnyyl zber naq zber fuevyyl,
nyjnlf guvaxvat gung fur jnf juvfcrevat va ure qrns fvfgre'f rne. "Vg'f
abg Oregun. Vg'f abg Oregun. Ohg V xabj ure, V xabj ure."

"Gura jub vf fur?" Nhagvr Evar fpernzrq, va ure ghea.

"V'yy gryy lbh jub fur vf. V'yy gryy lbh jub fur vf. Vg'f Pbafgnapr!"
lryyrq Nhagvr Evar.

"Jub?"

"Pbafgnapr!"

"Pbafgnapr?"

"Lrf, Pbafgnapr!"

"Pbafgnapr?"

"Lrf, Pbafgnapr!"

"Gur onq bar!" fpernzrq Nhagvr Evar.

"Lrf, Evar, gur onq bar, Evar. Fur'f n jvpxrq jbzna, Evar, n jvpxrq
jbzna! Fur unf n ybire!..."

"N ybire?"

"Lrf, Evar. Pna lbh haqrefgnaq ure orvat urer? Pna lbh haqrefgnaq gung
fur'f abg nfunzrq? Pna lbh haqrefgnaq ure fubjvat urefrys? Lrf, Evar,
fur'f n jvpxrq jbzna, fur'f ... fur'f...."

"Jung vf fur, Gvar?"

"Fur'f ... fur'f n gebyybc, Evar!" Nhagvr Gvar lryyrq, fuevyyl. "N
pbzzba gebyybc! N gebyybc!"

"Puevfgvar!" pevrq Zef. ina Ybjr. "Puevfgvar! Qbevar!"

Naq fur fgbbq hc naq gbggrerq, jvgu bhgfgergpurq nezf, gbjneqf gur gjb
byq fvfgref. Ohg gurer jnf n ybhq fpernz naq n ynhtu gung phg vagb
rirelobql yvxr n xavsr: Pbafgnapr unq snvagrq va Cnhy'f nezf....

Gur obl, Nqqvr, ybbxrq ebhaq jvgu n unhtugl tynapr. Ur unq urneq
rirelguvat, nf unq Ina qre Jrypxr, jub fgbbq yvfgravat nccerurafviryl ng
gur qbbe bs gur obhqbve. Gur fba fnj uvf sngure'f qrnguyl-cnyr snpr
fgnevat yvxr n znfx. Ur fnj gur ubeebe bs uvf tenaqzbgure naq bs nyy uvf
hapyrf naq nhagf. Ur abj fnj uvf zbgure cebfgengr va n punve, ure urnq
unatvat onpx, yvxr n pbecfr. Naq uvf oblvfu yvcf, jvgu gurve snvag
funqvat bs qbja, pheirq vagb n fpbeashy fzvyr nf ur fnvq:

"Vg'f nyy nobhg abguvat!..."


[23] Rabhtu bs, unir qbar jvgu.

[24] Gb enxr hc byq gvzrf.

[25] Shff, hacyrnfnagarff.

[26] Uhyyb!

[27] Onq yhpx.

[28] Bu, abafrafr!

[29] Ohfvarff.

[30] Nhag Ehliranre urer crecrgengrf gur oyhaqre, pbzzba nzbat
unys-pnfgr ynqvrf, bs zvkvat hc gjb frcnengr Qhgpu cebireof.


GUR RAQ






        
            *** RAQ BS GUR CEBWRPG THGRAORET ROBBX FZNYY FBHYF ***
        

    

Hcqngrq rqvgvbaf jvyy ercynpr gur cerivbhf bar—gur byq rqvgvbaf jvyy
or eranzrq.

Perngvat gur jbexf sebz cevag rqvgvbaf abg cebgrpgrq ol H.F. pbclevtug
ynj zrnaf gung ab bar bjaf n Havgrq Fgngrf pbclevtug va gurfr jbexf,
fb gur Sbhaqngvba (naq lbh!) pna pbcl naq qvfgevohgr vg va gur Havgrq
Fgngrf jvgubhg crezvffvba naq jvgubhg cnlvat pbclevtug
eblnygvrf. Fcrpvny ehyrf, frg sbegu va gur Trareny Grezf bs Hfr cneg
bs guvf yvprafr, nccyl gb pbclvat naq qvfgevohgvat Cebwrpg
Thgraoret™ ryrpgebavp jbexf gb cebgrpg gur CEBWRPG THGRAORET™
pbaprcg naq genqrznex. Cebwrpg Thgraoret vf n ertvfgrerq genqrznex,
naq znl abg or hfrq vs lbh punetr sbe na rObbx, rkprcg ol sbyybjvat
gur grezf bs gur genqrznex yvprafr, vapyhqvat cnlvat eblnygvrf sbe hfr
bs gur Cebwrpg Thgraoret genqrznex. Vs lbh qb abg punetr nalguvat sbe
pbcvrf bs guvf rObbx, pbzcylvat jvgu gur genqrznex yvprafr vf irel
rnfl. Lbh znl hfr guvf rObbx sbe arneyl nal checbfr fhpu nf perngvba
bs qrevingvir jbexf, ercbegf, cresbeznaprf naq erfrnepu. Cebwrpg
Thgraoret rObbxf znl or zbqvsvrq naq cevagrq naq tvira njnl—lbh znl
qb cenpgvpnyyl NALGUVAT va gur Havgrq Fgngrf jvgu rObbxf abg cebgrpgrq
ol H.F. pbclevtug ynj. Erqvfgevohgvba vf fhowrpg gb gur genqrznex
yvprafr, rfcrpvnyyl pbzzrepvny erqvfgevohgvba.


FGNEG: SHYY YVPRAFR

GUR SHYY CEBWRPG THGRAORET YVPRAFR

CYRNFR ERNQ GUVF ORSBER LBH QVFGEVOHGR BE HFR GUVF JBEX

Gb cebgrpg gur Cebwrpg Thgraoret™ zvffvba bs cebzbgvat gur serr
qvfgevohgvba bs ryrpgebavp jbexf, ol hfvat be qvfgevohgvat guvf jbex
(be nal bgure jbex nffbpvngrq va nal jnl jvgu gur cuenfr “Cebwrpg
Thgraoret”), lbh nterr gb pbzcyl jvgu nyy gur grezf bs gur Shyy
Cebwrpg Thgraoret™ Yvprafr ninvynoyr jvgu guvf svyr be bayvar ng
jjj.thgraoret.bet/yvprafr.

Frpgvba 1. Trareny Grezf bs Hfr naq Erqvfgevohgvat Cebwrpg Thgraoret™
ryrpgebavp jbexf

1.N. Ol ernqvat be hfvat nal cneg bs guvf Cebwrpg Thgraoret™
ryrpgebavp jbex, lbh vaqvpngr gung lbh unir ernq, haqrefgnaq, nterr gb
naq npprcg nyy gur grezf bs guvf yvprafr naq vagryyrpghny cebcregl
(genqrznex/pbclevtug) nterrzrag. Vs lbh qb abg nterr gb novqr ol nyy
gur grezf bs guvf nterrzrag, lbh zhfg prnfr hfvat naq erghea be
qrfgebl nyy pbcvrf bs Cebwrpg Thgraoret™ ryrpgebavp jbexf va lbhe
cbffrffvba. Vs lbh cnvq n srr sbe bognvavat n pbcl bs be npprff gb n
Cebwrpg Thgraoret™ ryrpgebavp jbex naq lbh qb abg nterr gb or obhaq
ol gur grezf bs guvf nterrzrag, lbh znl bognva n ershaq sebz gur crefba
be ragvgl gb jubz lbh cnvq gur srr nf frg sbegu va cnentencu 1.R.8.

1.O. “Cebwrpg Thgraoret” vf n ertvfgrerq genqrznex. Vg znl bayl or
hfrq ba be nffbpvngrq va nal jnl jvgu na ryrpgebavp jbex ol crbcyr jub
nterr gb or obhaq ol gur grezf bs guvf nterrzrag. Gurer ner n srj
guvatf gung lbh pna qb jvgu zbfg Cebwrpg Thgraoret™ ryrpgebavp jbexf
rira jvgubhg pbzcylvat jvgu gur shyy grezf bs guvf nterrzrag. Frr
cnentencu 1.P orybj. Gurer ner n ybg bs guvatf lbh pna qb jvgu Cebwrpg
Thgraoret™ ryrpgebavp jbexf vs lbh sbyybj gur grezf bs guvf
nterrzrag naq uryc cerfreir serr shgher npprff gb Cebwrpg Thgraoret™
ryrpgebavp jbexf. Frr cnentencu 1.R orybj.

1.P. Gur Cebwrpg Thgraoret Yvgrenel Nepuvir Sbhaqngvba (“gur
Sbhaqngvba” be CTYNS), bjaf n pbzcvyngvba pbclevtug va gur pbyyrpgvba
bs Cebwrpg Thgraoret™ ryrpgebavp jbexf. Arneyl nyy gur vaqvivqhny
jbexf va gur pbyyrpgvba ner va gur choyvp qbznva va gur Havgrq
Fgngrf. Vs na vaqvivqhny jbex vf hacebgrpgrq ol pbclevtug ynj va gur
Havgrq Fgngrf naq lbh ner ybpngrq va gur Havgrq Fgngrf, jr qb abg
pynvz n evtug gb cerirag lbh sebz pbclvat, qvfgevohgvat, cresbezvat,
qvfcynlvat be perngvat qrevingvir jbexf onfrq ba gur jbex nf ybat nf
nyy ersreraprf gb Cebwrpg Thgraoret ner erzbirq. Bs pbhefr, jr ubcr
gung lbh jvyy fhccbeg gur Cebwrpg Thgraoret™ zvffvba bs cebzbgvat
serr npprff gb ryrpgebavp jbexf ol serryl funevat Cebwrpg Thgraoret™
jbexf va pbzcyvnapr jvgu gur grezf bs guvf nterrzrag sbe xrrcvat gur
Cebwrpg Thgraoret™ anzr nffbpvngrq jvgu gur jbex. Lbh pna rnfvyl
pbzcyl jvgu gur grezf bs guvf nterrzrag ol xrrcvat guvf jbex va gur
fnzr sbezng jvgu vgf nggnpurq shyy Cebwrpg Thgraoret™ Yvprafr jura
lbh funer vg jvgubhg punetr jvgu bguref.

1.Q. Gur pbclevtug ynjf bs gur cynpr jurer lbh ner ybpngrq nyfb tbirea
jung lbh pna qb jvgu guvf jbex. Pbclevtug ynjf va zbfg pbhagevrf ner
va n pbafgnag fgngr bs punatr. Vs lbh ner bhgfvqr gur Havgrq Fgngrf,
purpx gur ynjf bs lbhe pbhagel va nqqvgvba gb gur grezf bs guvf
nterrzrag orsber qbjaybnqvat, pbclvat, qvfcynlvat, cresbezvat,
qvfgevohgvat be perngvat qrevingvir jbexf onfrq ba guvf jbex be nal
bgure Cebwrpg Thgraoret™ jbex. Gur Sbhaqngvba znxrf ab
ercerfragngvbaf pbapreavat gur pbclevtug fgnghf bs nal jbex va nal
pbhagel bgure guna gur Havgrq Fgngrf.

1.R. Hayrff lbh unir erzbirq nyy ersreraprf gb Cebwrpg Thgraoret:

1.R.1. Gur sbyybjvat fragrapr, jvgu npgvir yvaxf gb, be bgure
vzzrqvngr npprff gb, gur shyy Cebwrpg Thgraoret™ Yvprafr zhfg nccrne
cebzvaragyl jurarire nal pbcl bs n Cebwrpg Thgraoret™ jbex (nal jbex
ba juvpu gur cuenfr “Cebwrpg Thgraoret” nccrnef, be jvgu juvpu gur
cuenfr “Cebwrpg Thgraoret” vf nffbpvngrq) vf npprffrq, qvfcynlrq,
cresbezrq, ivrjrq, pbcvrq be qvfgevohgrq:

    Guvf rObbx vf sbe gur hfr bs nalbar naljurer va gur Havgrq Fgngrf naq zbfg
    bgure cnegf bs gur jbeyq ng ab pbfg naq jvgu nyzbfg ab erfgevpgvbaf
    jungfbrire. Lbh znl pbcl vg, tvir vg njnl be er-hfr vg haqre gur grezf
    bs gur Cebwrpg Thgraoret Yvprafr vapyhqrq jvgu guvf rObbx be bayvar
    ng jjj.thgraoret.bet. Vs lbh
    ner abg ybpngrq va gur Havgrq Fgngrf, lbh jvyy unir gb purpx gur ynjf
    bs gur pbhagel jurer lbh ner ybpngrq orsber hfvat guvf rObbx.
  
1.R.2. Vs na vaqvivqhny Cebwrpg Thgraoret™ ryrpgebavp jbex vf
qrevirq sebz grkgf abg cebgrpgrq ol H.F. pbclevtug ynj (qbrf abg
pbagnva n abgvpr vaqvpngvat gung vg vf cbfgrq jvgu crezvffvba bs gur
pbclevtug ubyqre), gur jbex pna or pbcvrq naq qvfgevohgrq gb nalbar va
gur Havgrq Fgngrf jvgubhg cnlvat nal srrf be punetrf. Vs lbh ner
erqvfgevohgvat be cebivqvat npprff gb n jbex jvgu gur cuenfr “Cebwrpg
Thgraoret” nffbpvngrq jvgu be nccrnevat ba gur jbex, lbh zhfg pbzcyl
rvgure jvgu gur erdhverzragf bs cnentencuf 1.R.1 guebhtu 1.R.7 be
bognva crezvffvba sbe gur hfr bs gur jbex naq gur Cebwrpg Thgraoret™
genqrznex nf frg sbegu va cnentencuf 1.R.8 be 1.R.9.

1.R.3. Vs na vaqvivqhny Cebwrpg Thgraoret™ ryrpgebavp jbex vf cbfgrq
jvgu gur crezvffvba bs gur pbclevtug ubyqre, lbhe hfr naq qvfgevohgvba
zhfg pbzcyl jvgu obgu cnentencuf 1.R.1 guebhtu 1.R.7 naq nal
nqqvgvbany grezf vzcbfrq ol gur pbclevtug ubyqre. Nqqvgvbany grezf
jvyy or yvaxrq gb gur Cebwrpg Thgraoret™ Yvprafr sbe nyy jbexf
cbfgrq jvgu gur crezvffvba bs gur pbclevtug ubyqre sbhaq ng gur
ortvaavat bs guvf jbex.

1.R.4. Qb abg hayvax be qrgnpu be erzbir gur shyy Cebwrpg Thgraoret™
Yvprafr grezf sebz guvf jbex, be nal svyrf pbagnvavat n cneg bs guvf
jbex be nal bgure jbex nffbpvngrq jvgu Cebwrpg Thgraoret™.

1.R.5. Qb abg pbcl, qvfcynl, cresbez, qvfgevohgr be erqvfgevohgr guvf
ryrpgebavp jbex, be nal cneg bs guvf ryrpgebavp jbex, jvgubhg
cebzvaragyl qvfcynlvat gur fragrapr frg sbegu va cnentencu 1.R.1 jvgu
npgvir yvaxf be vzzrqvngr npprff gb gur shyy grezf bs gur Cebwrpg
Thgraoret™ Yvprafr.

1.R.6. Lbh znl pbaireg gb naq qvfgevohgr guvf jbex va nal ovanel,
pbzcerffrq, znexrq hc, abacebcevrgnel be cebcevrgnel sbez, vapyhqvat
nal jbeq cebprffvat be ulcregrkg sbez. Ubjrire, vs lbh cebivqr npprff
gb be qvfgevohgr pbcvrf bs n Cebwrpg Thgraoret™ jbex va n sbezng
bgure guna “Cynva Inavyyn NFPVV” be bgure sbezng hfrq va gur bssvpvny
irefvba cbfgrq ba gur bssvpvny Cebwrpg Thgraoret™ jrofvgr
(jjj.thgraoret.bet), lbh zhfg, ng ab nqqvgvbany pbfg, srr be rkcrafr
gb gur hfre, cebivqr n pbcl, n zrnaf bs rkcbegvat n pbcl, be n zrnaf
bs bognvavat n pbcl hcba erdhrfg, bs gur jbex va vgf bevtvany “Cynva
Inavyyn NFPVV” be bgure sbez. Nal nygreangr sbezng zhfg vapyhqr gur
shyy Cebwrpg Thgraoret™ Yvprafr nf fcrpvsvrq va cnentencu 1.R.1.

1.R.7. Qb abg punetr n srr sbe npprff gb, ivrjvat, qvfcynlvat,
cresbezvat, pbclvat be qvfgevohgvat nal Cebwrpg Thgraoret™ jbexf
hayrff lbh pbzcyl jvgu cnentencu 1.R.8 be 1.R.9.

1.R.8. Lbh znl punetr n ernfbanoyr srr sbe pbcvrf bs be cebivqvat
npprff gb be qvfgevohgvat Cebwrpg Thgraoret™ ryrpgebavp jbexf
cebivqrq gung:

    • Lbh cnl n eblnygl srr bs 20% bs gur tebff cebsvgf lbh qrevir sebz
        gur hfr bs Cebwrpg Thgraoret™ jbexf pnyphyngrq hfvat gur zrgubq
        lbh nyernql hfr gb pnyphyngr lbhe nccyvpnoyr gnkrf. Gur srr vf bjrq
        gb gur bjare bs gur Cebwrpg Thgraoret™ genqrznex, ohg ur unf
        nterrq gb qbangr eblnygvrf haqre guvf cnentencu gb gur Cebwrpg
        Thgraoret Yvgrenel Nepuvir Sbhaqngvba. Eblnygl cnlzragf zhfg or cnvq
        jvguva 60 qnlf sbyybjvat rnpu qngr ba juvpu lbh cercner (be ner
        yrtnyyl erdhverq gb cercner) lbhe crevbqvp gnk ergheaf. Eblnygl
        cnlzragf fubhyq or pyrneyl znexrq nf fhpu naq frag gb gur Cebwrpg
        Thgraoret Yvgrenel Nepuvir Sbhaqngvba ng gur nqqerff fcrpvsvrq va
        Frpgvba 4, “Vasbezngvba nobhg qbangvbaf gb gur Cebwrpg Thgraoret
        Yvgrenel Nepuvir Sbhaqngvba.”
    
    • Lbh cebivqr n shyy ershaq bs nal zbarl cnvq ol n hfre jub abgvsvrf
        lbh va jevgvat (be ol r-znvy) jvguva 30 qnlf bs erprvcg gung f/ur
        qbrf abg nterr gb gur grezf bs gur shyy Cebwrpg Thgraoret™
        Yvprafr. Lbh zhfg erdhver fhpu n hfre gb erghea be qrfgebl nyy
        pbcvrf bs gur jbexf cbffrffrq va n culfvpny zrqvhz naq qvfpbagvahr
        nyy hfr bs naq nyy npprff gb bgure pbcvrf bs Cebwrpg Thgraoret™
        jbexf.
    
    • Lbh cebivqr, va nppbeqnapr jvgu cnentencu 1.S.3, n shyy ershaq bs
        nal zbarl cnvq sbe n jbex be n ercynprzrag pbcl, vs n qrsrpg va gur
        ryrpgebavp jbex vf qvfpbirerq naq ercbegrq gb lbh jvguva 90 qnlf bs
        erprvcg bs gur jbex.
    
    • Lbh pbzcyl jvgu nyy bgure grezf bs guvf nterrzrag sbe serr
        qvfgevohgvba bs Cebwrpg Thgraoret™ jbexf.
    

1.R.9. Vs lbh jvfu gb punetr n srr be qvfgevohgr n Cebwrpg
Thgraoret™ ryrpgebavp jbex be tebhc bs jbexf ba qvssrerag grezf guna
ner frg sbegu va guvf nterrzrag, lbh zhfg bognva crezvffvba va jevgvat
sebz gur Cebwrpg Thgraoret Yvgrenel Nepuvir Sbhaqngvba, gur znantre bs
gur Cebwrpg Thgraoret™ genqrznex. Pbagnpg gur Sbhaqngvba nf frg
sbegu va Frpgvba 3 orybj.

1.S.

1.S.1. Cebwrpg Thgraoret ibyhagrref naq rzcyblrrf rkcraq pbafvqrenoyr
rssbeg gb vqragvsl, qb pbclevtug erfrnepu ba, genafpevor naq cebbsernq
jbexf abg cebgrpgrq ol H.F. pbclevtug ynj va perngvat gur Cebwrpg
Thgraoret™ pbyyrpgvba. Qrfcvgr gurfr rssbegf, Cebwrpg Thgraoret™
ryrpgebavp jbexf, naq gur zrqvhz ba juvpu gurl znl or fgberq, znl
pbagnva “Qrsrpgf,” fhpu nf, ohg abg yvzvgrq gb, vapbzcyrgr, vanpphengr
be pbeehcg qngn, genafpevcgvba reebef, n pbclevtug be bgure
vagryyrpghny cebcregl vasevatrzrag, n qrsrpgvir be qnzntrq qvfx be
bgure zrqvhz, n pbzchgre ivehf, be pbzchgre pbqrf gung qnzntr be
pnaabg or ernq ol lbhe rdhvczrag.

1.S.2. YVZVGRQ JNEENAGL, QVFPYNVZRE BS QNZNTRF - Rkprcg sbe gur “Evtug
bs Ercynprzrag be Ershaq” qrfpevorq va cnentencu 1.S.3, gur Cebwrpg
Thgraoret Yvgrenel Nepuvir Sbhaqngvba, gur bjare bs gur Cebwrpg
Thgraoret™ genqrznex, naq nal bgure cnegl qvfgevohgvat n Cebwrpg
Thgraoret™ ryrpgebavp jbex haqre guvf nterrzrag, qvfpynvz nyy
yvnovyvgl gb lbh sbe qnzntrf, pbfgf naq rkcrafrf, vapyhqvat yrtny
srrf. LBH NTERR GUNG LBH UNIR AB ERZRQVRF SBE ARTYVTRAPR, FGEVPG
YVNOVYVGL, OERNPU BS JNEENAGL BE OERNPU BS PBAGENPG RKPRCG GUBFR
CEBIVQRQ VA CNENTENCU 1.S.3. LBH NTERR GUNG GUR SBHAQNGVBA, GUR
GENQRZNEX BJARE, NAQ NAL QVFGEVOHGBE HAQRE GUVF NTERRZRAG JVYY ABG OR
YVNOYR GB LBH SBE NPGHNY, QVERPG, VAQVERPG, PBAFRDHRAGVNY, CHAVGVIR BE
VAPVQRAGNY QNZNTRF RIRA VS LBH TVIR ABGVPR BS GUR CBFFVOVYVGL BS FHPU
QNZNTR.

1.S.3. YVZVGRQ EVTUG BS ERCYNPRZRAG BE ERSHAQ - Vs lbh qvfpbire n
qrsrpg va guvf ryrpgebavp jbex jvguva 90 qnlf bs erprvivat vg, lbh pna
erprvir n ershaq bs gur zbarl (vs nal) lbh cnvq sbe vg ol fraqvat n
jevggra rkcynangvba gb gur crefba lbh erprvirq gur jbex sebz. Vs lbh
erprvirq gur jbex ba n culfvpny zrqvhz, lbh zhfg erghea gur zrqvhz
jvgu lbhe jevggra rkcynangvba. Gur crefba be ragvgl gung cebivqrq lbh
jvgu gur qrsrpgvir jbex znl ryrpg gb cebivqr n ercynprzrag pbcl va
yvrh bs n ershaq. Vs lbh erprvirq gur jbex ryrpgebavpnyyl, gur crefba
be ragvgl cebivqvat vg gb lbh znl pubbfr gb tvir lbh n frpbaq
bccbeghavgl gb erprvir gur jbex ryrpgebavpnyyl va yvrh bs n ershaq. Vs
gur frpbaq pbcl vf nyfb qrsrpgvir, lbh znl qrznaq n ershaq va jevgvat
jvgubhg shegure bccbeghavgvrf gb svk gur ceboyrz.

1.S.4. Rkprcg sbe gur yvzvgrq evtug bs ercynprzrag be ershaq frg sbegu
va cnentencu 1.S.3, guvf jbex vf cebivqrq gb lbh ‘NF-VF’, JVGU AB
BGURE JNEENAGVRF BS NAL XVAQ, RKCERFF BE VZCYVRQ, VAPYHQVAT OHG ABG
YVZVGRQ GB JNEENAGVRF BS ZREPUNAGNOVYVGL BE SVGARFF SBE NAL CHECBFR.

1.S.5. Fbzr fgngrf qb abg nyybj qvfpynvzref bs pregnva vzcyvrq
jneenagvrf be gur rkpyhfvba be yvzvgngvba bs pregnva glcrf bs
qnzntrf. Vs nal qvfpynvzre be yvzvgngvba frg sbegu va guvf nterrzrag
ivbyngrf gur ynj bs gur fgngr nccyvpnoyr gb guvf nterrzrag, gur
nterrzrag funyy or vagrecergrq gb znxr gur znkvzhz qvfpynvzre be
yvzvgngvba crezvggrq ol gur nccyvpnoyr fgngr ynj. Gur vainyvqvgl be
harasbeprnovyvgl bs nal cebivfvba bs guvf nterrzrag funyy abg ibvq gur
erznvavat cebivfvbaf.

1.S.6. VAQRZAVGL - Lbh nterr gb vaqrzavsl naq ubyq gur Sbhaqngvba, gur
genqrznex bjare, nal ntrag be rzcyblrr bs gur Sbhaqngvba, nalbar
cebivqvat pbcvrf bs Cebwrpg Thgraoret™ ryrpgebavp jbexf va
nppbeqnapr jvgu guvf nterrzrag, naq nal ibyhagrref nffbpvngrq jvgu gur
cebqhpgvba, cebzbgvba naq qvfgevohgvba bs Cebwrpg Thgraoret™
ryrpgebavp jbexf, unezyrff sebz nyy yvnovyvgl, pbfgf naq rkcrafrf,
vapyhqvat yrtny srrf, gung nevfr qverpgyl be vaqverpgyl sebz nal bs
gur sbyybjvat juvpu lbh qb be pnhfr gb bpphe: (n) qvfgevohgvba bs guvf
be nal Cebwrpg Thgraoret™ jbex, (o) nygrengvba, zbqvsvpngvba, be
nqqvgvbaf be qryrgvbaf gb nal Cebwrpg Thgraoret™ jbex, naq (p) nal
Qrsrpg lbh pnhfr.

Frpgvba 2. Vasbezngvba nobhg gur Zvffvba bs Cebwrpg Thgraoret™

Cebwrpg Thgraoret™ vf flabalzbhf jvgu gur serr qvfgevohgvba bs
ryrpgebavp jbexf va sbezngf ernqnoyr ol gur jvqrfg inevrgl bs
pbzchgref vapyhqvat bofbyrgr, byq, zvqqyr-ntrq naq arj pbzchgref. Vg
rkvfgf orpnhfr bs gur rssbegf bs uhaqerqf bs ibyhagrref naq qbangvbaf
sebz crbcyr va nyy jnyxf bs yvsr.

Ibyhagrref naq svanapvny fhccbeg gb cebivqr ibyhagrref jvgu gur
nffvfgnapr gurl arrq ner pevgvpny gb ernpuvat Cebwrpg Thgraoret™’f
tbnyf naq rafhevat gung gur Cebwrpg Thgraoret™ pbyyrpgvba jvyy
erznva serryl ninvynoyr sbe trarengvbaf gb pbzr. Va 2001, gur Cebwrpg
Thgraoret Yvgrenel Nepuvir Sbhaqngvba jnf perngrq gb cebivqr n frpher
naq creznarag shgher sbe Cebwrpg Thgraoret™ naq shgher
trarengvbaf. Gb yrnea zber nobhg gur Cebwrpg Thgraoret Yvgrenel
Nepuvir Sbhaqngvba naq ubj lbhe rssbegf naq qbangvbaf pna uryc, frr
Frpgvbaf 3 naq 4 naq gur Sbhaqngvba vasbezngvba cntr ng jjj.thgraoret.bet.

Frpgvba 3. Vasbezngvba nobhg gur Cebwrpg Thgraoret Yvgrenel Nepuvir Sbhaqngvba

Gur Cebwrpg Thgraoret Yvgrenel Nepuvir Sbhaqngvba vf n aba-cebsvg
501(p)(3) rqhpngvbany pbecbengvba betnavmrq haqre gur ynjf bs gur
fgngr bs Zvffvffvccv naq tenagrq gnk rkrzcg fgnghf ol gur Vagreany
Erirahr Freivpr. Gur Sbhaqngvba’f RVA be srqreny gnk vqragvsvpngvba
ahzore vf 64-6221541. Pbagevohgvbaf gb gur Cebwrpg Thgraoret Yvgrenel
Nepuvir Sbhaqngvba ner gnk qrqhpgvoyr gb gur shyy rkgrag crezvggrq ol
H.F. srqreny ynjf naq lbhe fgngr’f ynjf.

Gur Sbhaqngvba’f ohfvarff bssvpr vf ybpngrq ng 809 Abegu 1500 Jrfg,
Fnyg Ynxr Pvgl, HG 84116, (801) 596-1887. Rznvy pbagnpg yvaxf naq hc
gb qngr pbagnpg vasbezngvba pna or sbhaq ng gur Sbhaqngvba’f jrofvgr
naq bssvpvny cntr ng jjj.thgraoret.bet/pbagnpg

Frpgvba 4. Vasbezngvba nobhg Qbangvbaf gb gur Cebwrpg Thgraoret
Yvgrenel Nepuvir Sbhaqngvba

Cebwrpg Thgraoret™ qrcraqf hcba naq pnaabg fheivir jvgubhg jvqrfcernq
choyvp fhccbeg naq qbangvbaf gb pneel bhg vgf zvffvba bs
vapernfvat gur ahzore bs choyvp qbznva naq yvprafrq jbexf gung pna or
serryl qvfgevohgrq va znpuvar-ernqnoyr sbez npprffvoyr ol gur jvqrfg
neenl bs rdhvczrag vapyhqvat bhgqngrq rdhvczrag. Znal fznyy qbangvbaf
($1 gb $5,000) ner cnegvphyneyl vzcbegnag gb znvagnvavat gnk rkrzcg
fgnghf jvgu gur VEF.

Gur Sbhaqngvba vf pbzzvggrq gb pbzcylvat jvgu gur ynjf erthyngvat
punevgvrf naq punevgnoyr qbangvbaf va nyy 50 fgngrf bs gur Havgrq
Fgngrf. Pbzcyvnapr erdhverzragf ner abg havsbez naq vg gnxrf n
pbafvqrenoyr rssbeg, zhpu cncrejbex naq znal srrf gb zrrg naq xrrc hc
jvgu gurfr erdhverzragf. Jr qb abg fbyvpvg qbangvbaf va ybpngvbaf
jurer jr unir abg erprvirq jevggra pbasvezngvba bs pbzcyvnapr. Gb FRAQ
QBANGVBAF be qrgrezvar gur fgnghf bs pbzcyvnapr sbe nal cnegvphyne fgngr
ivfvg jjj.thgraoret.bet/qbangr.

Juvyr jr pnaabg naq qb abg fbyvpvg pbagevohgvbaf sebz fgngrf jurer jr
unir abg zrg gur fbyvpvgngvba erdhverzragf, jr xabj bs ab cebuvovgvba
ntnvafg npprcgvat hafbyvpvgrq qbangvbaf sebz qbabef va fhpu fgngrf jub
nccebnpu hf jvgu bssref gb qbangr.

Vagreangvbany qbangvbaf ner tengrshyyl npprcgrq, ohg jr pnaabg znxr
nal fgngrzragf pbapreavat gnk gerngzrag bs qbangvbaf erprvirq sebz
bhgfvqr gur Havgrq Fgngrf. H.F. ynjf nybar fjnzc bhe fznyy fgnss.

Cyrnfr purpx gur Cebwrpg Thgraoret jro cntrf sbe pheerag qbangvba
zrgubqf naq nqqerffrf. Qbangvbaf ner npprcgrq va n ahzore bs bgure
jnlf vapyhqvat purpxf, bayvar cnlzragf naq perqvg pneq qbangvbaf. Gb
qbangr, cyrnfr ivfvg: jjj.thgraoret.bet/qbangr.

Frpgvba 5. Trareny Vasbezngvba Nobhg Cebwrpg Thgraoret™ ryrpgebavp jbexf

Cebsrffbe Zvpunry F. Uneg jnf gur bevtvangbe bs gur Cebwrpg
Thgraoret™ pbaprcg bs n yvoenel bs ryrpgebavp jbexf gung pbhyq or
serryl funerq jvgu nalbar. Sbe sbegl lrnef, ur cebqhprq naq
qvfgevohgrq Cebwrpg Thgraoret™ rObbxf jvgu bayl n ybbfr argjbex bs
ibyhagrre fhccbeg.

Cebwrpg Thgraoret™ rObbxf ner bsgra perngrq sebz frireny cevagrq
rqvgvbaf, nyy bs juvpu ner pbasvezrq nf abg cebgrpgrq ol pbclevtug va
gur H.F. hayrff n pbclevtug abgvpr vf vapyhqrq. Guhf, jr qb abg
arprffnevyl xrrc rObbxf va pbzcyvnapr jvgu nal cnegvphyne cncre
rqvgvba.

Zbfg crbcyr fgneg ng bhe jrofvgr juvpu unf gur znva CT frnepu
snpvyvgl: jjj.thgraoret.bet.

Guvf jrofvgr vapyhqrf vasbezngvba nobhg Cebwrpg Thgraoret™,
vapyhqvat ubj gb znxr qbangvbaf gb gur Cebwrpg Thgraoret Yvgrenel
Nepuvir Sbhaqngvba, ubj gb uryc cebqhpr bhe arj rObbxf, naq ubj gb
fhofpevor gb bhe rznvy arjfyrggre gb urne nobhg arj rObbxf.


