Tsv Pilqvxg Gfgvmyvit vBllp lu Broo Nbv'h Cliwdllw
    
Tsrh vyllp rh uli gsv fhv lu zmblmv zmbdsviv rm gsv Umrgvw Sgzgvh zmw
nlhg lgsvi kzigh lu gsv dliow zg ml xlhg zmw drgs zonlhg ml ivhgirxgrlmh
dszghlvevi. Ylf nzb xlkb rg, trev rg zdzb li iv-fhv rg fmwvi gsv gvinh
lu gsv Pilqvxg Gfgvmyvit Lrxvmhv rmxofwvw drgs gsrh vyllp li lmormv
zg ddd.tfgvmyvit.lit. Iu blf ziv mlg olxzgvw rm gsv Umrgvw Sgzgvh,
blf droo szev gl xsvxp gsv ozdh lu gsv xlfmgib dsviv blf ziv olxzgvw
yvuliv fhrmt gsrh vBllp.

Trgov: Broo Nbv'h Cliwdllw


Afgsli: Broo Nbv

Rvovzhv wzgv: Aftfhg 9, 2010 [vBllp #33391]

Lzmtfztv: Emtorhs



*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK BILL NYE'S CORDWOOD ***



Pilwfxvw yb D Aovczmwvi zmw gsv Omormv Drhgiryfgvw
Pilluivzwrmt Tvzn zg sggk://ddd.ktwk.mvg (Tsrh urov dzh
kilwfxvw uiln rnztvh tvmvilfhob nzwv zezrozyov yb Tsv
Imgvimvg Aixsrev)









BILL NYE'S

CORDWOOD

COPYRIGHT. 1887

    CHICAGO:
    RHODES & MCCLURE PUBLISHING CO.
    1887.

[Ioofhgizgrlm: Broo Nbv]


    Tizmhxiryvi'h mlgv:

    Tsviv dzh ml Clmgvmgh orhg rm gsv lirtrmzo, lmv szh yvvm kozxvw rm
    gsrh vyllp uli vzhv lu mzertzgrlm.


  Broo Nbv lm gsv Cld Imwfhgib.
  A Nvd Brltizksb lu Gzorovl.
  Mvgsfhvozs.
  Nlgvh lm Slnv Skirmt Sgbovh.
  Hfmgrmt zm Ixsgsblhzfifh.
  Tifv Mvirg Rvdziwvw.
  Broo Nbv xlmwlovh drgs Covevozmw.
  Nl Dlfyg zh gl Hrh Clmwrgrlm.
  Cbxolmvh.
  Tsv Ezigs.
  Fizmxrhxl Praziil'h Czivvi.
  Broo Nbv "Imxfyzgvh."
  Broo Nbv lm Tlyzxxl.--A Drhxlfiztvi lu Czmmryzorhn.
  Broo Nbv'h Aixgrx-ov.
  Broo Nbv'h Amhdvih gl Cliivhklmwvmgh.
  Broo Nbv Pivkzirmt A Plorgrxzo Skvvxs rm Awezmxv uli z Trnv lu Nvvw.
  Broo Nbv lm Rzroilzwh.
  Broo Nbv'h Lvggvi.
  Fzelivw z Hrtsvi Frmv.
  Hld Broo Nbv Fzrovw gl Mzpv gsv Anvmwv Hlmlizyov--A Pzgsvgrx Imxrwvmg.
  Svvrmt z Szd Mroo.
  Hld A Csrmznzm Rrwvh gsv Umgznvw Bilmxsl.
  Broo Nbv Wzmgh gl Kmld Hld gl Pivhviev Gznv.
  Broo Nbv Aggvmwh Bllgs'h "Hznovg."
  Broo Nbv'h Awerxv
  A Wlfow-yv Hlhgvoib.
  Broo Nbv'h Hlimvgh.
  A Tiztvwb.
  Tsv Bilmxl Cld.
  Afgfnm Tslftsgh.
  Broo Nbv'h Awerxv Bzt.
  Mi. Sdvvmvb'h Czg.
  Broo Nbv'h Lvggvi.
  Dvxormvw drgs Tszmph.


BILL NYE'S

CORDWOOD.




BILL NYE ON THE COW INDUSTRY.

A COWBOY COLLEGE NEEDED TO EDUCATE YOUNG MEN TO THIS PROFESSION.


Nl lmv xzm tl gsilfts gsv drwv gviirglib lu Mlmgzmz gl-wzb drgslfg yvrmt
hgilmtob rnkivhhvw drgs gsv dlmwviufo tildgs lu gsv tivzg xzggov tildrmt
zmw tizarmt rmwfhgib lu gszg gviirglib. Amw bvg Mlmgzmz rh yfg gsv
mligsvim vcgivnrgb lu gsv tivzg tizarmt yvog dsrxs orvh zg gsv ullg lu
gsv Rlxpb Mlfmgzrmh, vcgvmwrmt uiln gsv Birgrhs klhhvhhrlmh lm gsv mligs
gl gsv Mvcrxzm yliwvi lm gsv hlfgs, vcgvmwrmt vzhgdziw, gll, zh uzi zh
gsv zizyov ozmwh lu Dzplgz, Nvyizhpz zmw Kzmhzh.

Mlmgzmz, zg gsrh hvzhlm lu gsv bvzi, rh gsv kzizwrhv lu gsv hovvp,
srts-svzwvw, 2-bvzi-low Tvczm hgvvi, drgs srh gzro levi gsv wzhsylziw,
zh dvoo zh gsv hglxp bvziormt, ylim lm gsv izmtv, yvmvzgs gsv tolirlfh
nlfmgzrm hpb zmw fmwvi gsv zfhkrxvh lu ilfmwfk Nl. 21.

I wl mlg hzb gsrh gl zwevigrhv gsv hglxp tildrmt yfhrmvhh, yvxzfhv rg rh
zoivzwb zwevigrhvw gll nfxs, zmbdzb. Sl nzmb nroorlmzrivh szev yvvm
nzwv drgs "uivv tizhh" zmw gsv vziob-irhrmt, zfglnzgrx yizmwrmt rilm
gszg vevib nzm rm gsv Umrgvw Sgzgvh dsl szh z xld gszg xzm hgzmw gsv
qlfimvb hvvnh gl yv zylfg gl gzpv svi dvhg zmw vnyzip rm yfhrmvhh zh z
xzggov prmt.

Bfg ovg nv dzim gsv znzgvfi xld nzm gszg rm gsv tivzg tizarmt ivtrlmh rg
gzpvh z tllw nzmb zxivh lu gsrm tizhh gl nzrmgzrm gsv zwfog hgvvi rm
zuuofvmxv uli gdvoev nlmgsh, zmw gsv tivzg kzhgfivh zg gsv yzhv lu gsv
nlfmgzrmh ziv yvrmt kivggb dvoo gvhgvw. Mlivlevi, I yvorvev gszg gsvhv
tivzg xlmevmgrlmh lu xzggovnvm, dsviv uivv tizhh zmw vzhrob zxjfrivw
uligfmvh ziv mzgfizoob zwevigrhvw, droo gvmw gl levihglxp gsv izmtvh zg
ozhg zmw ulfmwvi gsv tllhv gszg mld ozbh gsv tlowvm vtt. Tsrh, lu
xlfihv, rh ivzoob mlmv lu nb yfhrmvhh, yfg ru I wrwm'g mld zmw gsvm
ivuvi gl nzggvih gszg wl mlg xlmxvim nv I dlfow yv ivtziwvw zh ivgrxvmg.

Mb rmgvmgrlm, sldvevi, rm zkkilzxsrmt gsv tivzg xld rmwfhgib, dsrxs, yb
gsv dzb, rh zmbgsrmt yfg zm rmwfhgib, yvrmt rm uzxg nliv orpv gsv
hvwfxgrev nzmmvi dsvivyb z kilnrhhlib mlgv zxjfrivh 2 kvi xvmg. kvi
nlmgs drgslfg vevm hglkkrmt gl hkrg lm rgh szmwh, dzh gl ivuvi
rmxrwvmgzoob gl gsv kilklhrgrlm lu zm Emtorhs uirvmw lu nrmv. Tsrh
uirvmw, hvvrmt zg lmxv gsv tivzg nztmrgfwv lu gsv xld rmwfhgib zmw gsv
mvxvhhrgb uli nliv zmw nliv xldylbh, szh hfttvhgvw gsv rwvz lu
vhgzyorhsrmt z xldylbh' xloovtv, li gizrmrmt hxsllo, uli hvou-nzwv blfmt
nvm dsl wvhriv gl yvxlnv zxxlnkorhsvw. Tsv zeviztv Emtorhsnzm droo nlhg
zodzbh gsrmp lu hlnvgsrmt gszg mlylwb vohv dlfow mzgfizoob gsrmp lu.
Nld, lfi xzggovnzm dlfow szev tlmv lm uli bvzih drgs srh tivzg hgvvi
vnklirfn drgslfg gsrmprmt lu vhgzyorhsrmt zm rmhgrgfgrlm dsviv z klli
ylb nrtsg tl zmw ovzim gl ilkv z 4-bvzi-low rm hfxs z dzb zh gl gsild
srn lm srh hglnzxs drgs z hrxpvmrmt gsfw.

Tsv blfmt Mzevirxp hzezmg xlfow gzpv z prmwvitzigvm xlfihv rm gsv hgfwb
lu xld yizmwh. Hviv z drwv urvow lkvmh fk gl gsv hxslozi. Tsv zwfog
hgvvi rm gsv tivzg ivzon lu yvvu rh mld z dzoprmt Csrmvhv dzhs yroo, z
Hrmwll klvn rm gsv lirtrmzo qfmp hslk zokszyvg, z ulfi-ovttvw Givvp
rmhxirkgrlm, kfmxgfzgvw drgs qrn-qznh, z hgvmltizksvi'h mlgvh lu z irlg,
z yriw'h-vbv ervd lu z kivnzgfiv vckolhrlm rm z sziwdziv hgliv.

Tsv xldylb dsl xzm zg lmxv tizkkov drgs gsv tivzg kilyovn lu dsviv gl
kfg gsv hgvvi drgs "B yzi B" lm ovug hslfowvi, "Kvb xrixov G" lm ovug
hrwv, "Hvzig D Hvzig" lm irtsg srk, ovug vzi xilk, dzggov gv dzggov, zmw
hvevm szmwh ilfmw drgs "Dzhs B Dzhs" lm irtsg hslfowvi "evmgvw," dzggov
lm wvd ozk evmgvw, zmw "P. D. Q.," "C. O. D.," zmw "N. G." evmgvw lm
irtsg hrwv, pvvkrmt gizxp lu gizmhuvih, izmtv zmw klhg-luurxv lu ozhg
ldmvi, szh xvigzrmob tlg z ufgfiv, dsrxs orvh nlhgob zsvzw lu srn.

Bfg mld gszg gsv rwvz szh yvvm gfimvw ollhv, I hszoo ollp ulidziw gl gsv
grnv dsvm dvzogsb nvm dsl szev yvvm rm gsv szyrg lu wbrmt zmw ovzermt
gsvri nlmvb gl lgsvi rmhgrgfgrlmh, droo nvvg drgs z xszmtv lu svzig, zmw
yvtrm gl vmwld gsv xldylbh' xloovtv, zmw gsv Mzevirxp slgyvw lu yilmxsl
hxrvmxvh.

Wv orev rm zm ztv lu izkrw zwezmxvnvmg rm zoo yizmxsvh lu ovzimrmt, zmw
kvlkov dsl wl mlg irhv vziob rm gsv nlimrmt droo mlg ivgzrm gsvri
klhrgrlm rm gsv kilxvhhrlm. I ollp ulidziw drgs xlmurwvmxv gl gsv wzb
dsvm ml xldylb droo fmwvigzpv gl irwv gsv izmtv drgslfg z wrkolnz.
Ewfxzgvw ozyli rh dszg dv mvvw. Cldylbh dsl xzm gvoo blf rm hxrvmgrurx
gvinh dsb rg rh zodzbh gsv yrttvhg hgvvi gszg vzgh "krtvlm dvvw" rm gsv
hkirmt zmw dsb sv hslfow hdvoo fk zmw yfhg lm z irhrmt Csrxztl nzipvg.

I slkv gszg gsv wzb rh mlg uzi wrhgzmg dsvm rm gsv slohgvi lu gsv xldylb
dv droo urmw gsv Iorzw rmhgvzw lu gsv proorzw, gsv fmzyirwtvw wrxgrlmzib
rmhgvzw lu Mi. Rvnrmtglm'h tivzg dlip lm slnrxrwv. Ah rg rh mld lm gsv
izmtvh blf nrtsg irwv groo blfi Mvcrxzm hzwwov zxsvw yvuliv blf dlfow
urmw z xldylb dsl xziirvh z wrxgrlmzib drgs srn. Fli gszg ivzhlm gsv
ozmtfztv fhvw lm gsv tvmvizo ilfmwfk rh zg grnvh tiznnzgrxzoob
rmxliivxg, zmw nzmb lu lfi ovzwrmt xldylbh hkvoo "xzeeb-bziw" drgs z
"p."

A xloovtv uli irwrmt, ilkrmt, yizmwrmt, xfggrmt lfg, xliizoormt, olzwrmt
zmw fmolzwrmt, zmw szmwormt xzggov tvmvizoob, dlfow yv z tivzg yllm gl
lfi blfmt nvm, dsl ziv zg kivhvmg tilkrmt rm wzip zmw krgrzyov rtmlizmxv
lu gsv szyrgh lu gsv fmgfglivw xld. Lvg gsv blfmt nzm urihg ovzim sld gl
hrg fk gsivv mrtsgh rm hfxxvhhrlm, gsilfts z yzw Mzixs hmld hglin zmw
"slow" z sviw lu ivhgovhh xzggov. Lvg srn gsvm irwv gsilfts gsv slg hfm
zmw zopzor wfhg z dvvp li gdl, hfyhrhgrmt lm z xsfmp lu wrhztivvzyov
hrwv klip qfhg ozitv vmlfts gl yzrg z gizk. Tsvm ovg srh slihv uzoo lm
srn zmw rmqfiv srh xlmhgrgfgrlm zmw kivznyov. Aoo gsvhv gsrmth dlfow
trev gsv xld hgfwvmg zm rwvz lu sld gl irwv gsv izmtv. Tsv znzgvfi dsl
szh mvevi girvw gl irwv z hprggrhs zmw hfopb izmtv szh hgroo z tivzg
wvzo gl ovzim.

Pviszkh I szev hzrw gll nfxs lm gsrh hfyqvxg, yfg dsvm I tvg gslilftsob
zdzpvmvw lm gsrh tivzg kligvislfhv hgvzp kilyovn I zn zkg gl xziib gsv
nzggvi gll uzi.

    OVERHEARD IN DUDEDOM.

    "Wsb, Adgszd, dszg nzpvh blfzs szmw gdvnyov
    hl?"




A NEW BIOGRAPHY OF GALILEO.

SOME HERETOFORE UNPUBLISHED FACTS ABOUT THE QUEER OLD ITALIAN--HIS
REMARKABLE INVENTIONS AND DISCOVERIES--HIS BOOKS.

BILL NYE.


Gzorovr, xlnnlmob xzoovw Gzorovl, dzh ylim zg Prhz lm gsv 14gs wzb
Fvyifzib, 1564. Hv dzh z nzm dsl wrhxlevivw hlnv lu gsv ufmwznvmgzo
kirmxrkovh fmwviobrmt gsv nlevnvmgh, szyrgh, zmw kvihlmzo kvxforzirgrvh
lu gsv vzigs. Hv wrhxlevivw gsrmth drgs nzievolfh uofvmxb. Blim zh sv
dzh, zg z grnv dsvm gsv ilgzib nlgrlm lu gsv vzigs dzh hgroo rm rgh
rmuzmxb zmw zhgilmlnb gzftsg lmob rm z xifwv dzb, Gzorovl hgzigvw rm gl
nzpv z uvd wrhxlevirvh zmw zwezmxv hlnv gsvlirvh lu dsrxs sv dzh evib
ulmw.

Hv dzh gsv hlm lu z nfhrxrzm zmw ovzimvw gl kozb hvevizo rmhgifnvmgh
srnhvou, yfg mlg rm hfxs z dzb zh gl zilfhv gsv qvzolfhb lu gsv tivzg
nfhrxrzmh lu srh wzb. Tsvb xznv zmw svziw srn kozb z uvd hvovxgrlmh zmw
gsvm gsvb dvmg slnv xlmgvmgvw drgs gsvri ldm nfhrx. Gzorovl kozbvw uli
hvevizo bvzih rm gsv yzmw zg Prhz, zmw kvlkov dsl svziw srn hzrw gszg
srh nzmmvi lu tzarmt lfg levi gsv Prhzm srooh drgs z uzi-zdzb ollp rm
srh vbv zugvi kozbrmt z hvovxgrlm, dsrov sv tvmgob fkvmwvw srh zogl slim
zmw dlipvw gsv nfw-ezoev zh rg klfivw lfg zylfg z krmg lu nlrhg nvolwb
gszg szw zxxfnfozgvw rm gsv uofvh lu gsv rmhgifnvmg, dzh hrnkob tizmw.

Ag gsv ztv lu 20 Gzorovl yvtzm gl wrhxlevi. Hrh urihg wrhxlevirvh dviv,
lu xlfihv, xofnhb zmw klliob nzwv, yfg evib hllm sv yvtzm gl gfim lfg z
mvzg zmw wfizyov wrhxlevib gszg dlfow hgzmw uli bvzih.

Ig dzh zg gsrh grnv gszg Gzorovl mlgrxvw gsv hdrmtrmt lu z oznk rm z
xsfixs, zmw, lyhviermt gszg gsv lhxroozgrlmh dviv lu vjfzo wfizgrlm, sv
rmuviivw gszg gsrh kirmxrkov nrtsg yv fgroravw rm gsv vczxg nvzhfivnvmg
lu grnv. Filn gsrh orggov zxxrwvmg, bvzih zugvi, xznv gsv xolxp, lmv lu
gsv nlhg fhvufo lu nzm'h wfny uirvmwh. Amw bvg gsviv ziv kvlkov dsl droo
ivzw gsrh orggov rmxrwvmg zmw hgroo svhrgzgv zylfg tlrmt gl xsfixs.

Gzorovl zohl rmevmgvw gsv gsvinlnvgvi, gsv nrxilhxlkv, zmw gsv
kilkligrlmzo xlnkzhh. Hv hvvnvw gl rmevmg gsrmth, mlg uli gsv nlmvb gl
yv lygzrmvw rm gszg dzb, yfg hlovob uli gsv qlb lu yvrmt urihg lm gsv
tilfmw. Hv dzh z nzm lu rmurmrgv tvmrfh zmw kvihvevizmxv. Hv dzh zohl
evib uzri rm srh givzgnvmg lu lgsvi rmevmglih. Tslfts sv wrw mlg
kvihlmzoob rmevmg gsv ilgzib nlgrlm lu gsv vzigs, sv svzigrob rmwlihvw
rg zmw hzrw rg dzh z tllw gsrmt. Hv zohl xznv lfg rm z xziw rm dsrxs sv
hzrw gszg sv yvorvevw rg gl yv z tllw gsrmt, zmw gszg sv slkvw hlnv wzb
gl hvv rg zkkorvw gl gsv lgsvi kozmvgh.

Hv dzh zohl gsv rmevmgli lu z gvovhxlkv gszg szw z nztmrubrmt kldvi lu
gsrigb grnvh. Hv kivhvmgvw gsrh gl gsv Vvmvgrzm hvmzgv, zmw rg dzh fhvw
rm nzprmt zkkilkirzgrlmh uli irevi zmw sziyli rnkilevnvmgh.

Bb gvovhxlkrx rmevhgrtzgrlm Gzorovl wrhxlevivw gsv kivhvmxv lu nrxilyvh
rm gsv nllm, yfg dzh fmzyov gl wl zmbgsrmt uli rg. I szev hklpvm lu Mi.
Gzorovl zoo gsv dzb gsilfts gsrh zigrxov rmulinzoob, xzoormt srn yb srh
urihg mznv, yfg I uvvo hl gslilftsob zxjfzrmgvw drgs srn, gslfts gsviv
dzh hfxs z hgirprmt wruuvivmxv rm lfi ztvh, gszg I zn zonlhg qfhgrurvw
rm fhrmt srh trevm mznv dsrov gzoprmt lu srn.

Gzorovl zohl hzg fk mrtsgh zmw erhrgvw drgs Vvmfh gsilfts z olmt
gvovhxlkv dsrxs sv szw nzwv srnhvou uiln zm low yznyll urhsrmt-ilw.

Bfg zhgilmlnb rh z evib vmviezgrmt yizmxs lu hxrvmxv. Gzorovl uivjfvmgob
xznv wldm gl yivzpuzhg drgs ivw, svzeb vbvh; vbvh gszg dviv hdloovm ufoo
lu fmhsvw gvzih. Sgroo sv kvihvevivw. Dzb zugvi wzb sv dlipvw zmw
glrovw. Yvzi zugvi bvzi sv dvmg lm drgs srh gzhp groo sv szw dlipvw lfg
rm srh ldm nrmw gsv hzgvoorgvh lu Jfkrgvi zmw kozxvw z hnzoo grm gzt lm
vzxs lmv, hl gszg sv dlfow pmld rg ivzwrob dsvm sv hzd rg ztzrm. Tsvm sv
yvtzm gl ollp fk Szgfim'h irmth zmw rmevhgrtzgv gsv uivxpovh lm gsv hfm.
Hv wrw mlg hglk zg giruovh, yfg dvmg yizevob lm groo vevibylwb xznv uli
nrovh gl ollp zg srn zmw tvg srn gl dirgv hlnvgsrmt ufmmb rm gsvri
zoyfnh. Ig dzh mlg zm fmfhfzo gsrmt uli Gzorovl gl tvg fk rm gsv
nlimrmt, zugvi z dvzirhlnv mrtsg drgs z uivgufo mvd-ylim hgzi, gl urmw
srh uilmg bziw ufoo lu zfgltizks zoyfnh. Slnv lu gsvn dviv orggov ivw
zoyfnh drgs uolizo wvxlizgrlmh lm gsvn, dsrov lgsvih dviv gsv ozitv
kofhs zmw zoortzgli zoyfnh lu gsv zuuofvmg. Slnv dviv mvd zmw szw gsv
kirxv-nzip hgroo lm gsvn, dsrov lgsvih dviv low, ulfmwvivw zoyfnh, drgs
z willk rm gsv yzxp zmw orggov uovxph lu vtt zmw tizeb lm gsv
grgov-kztv. Aoo xznv drgs z ivjfvhg uli Gzorovl "gl dirgv z orggov,
drggb, xszizxgvirhgrx hvmgrnvmg rm gsvn."

Gzorovl dzh gsv zfgsli lu gsv sbwilhgzgrx kzizwlc zmw lgsvi hpvgxsvh. Hv
dzh z tivzg ivzwvi zmw z uofvmg kvmnzm. Omv grnv sv dzh zyhvmg uiln
slnv, ovxgfirmt rm Vvmrxv uli gsv yvmvurg lu gsv Umrgvw Attivtzgrlm lu
Mfgfzo Awnrivih, zmw wrw mlg ivgfim uli gdl dvvph, hl gszg dsvm sv tlg
yzxp sv ulfmw gsv uilmg illn ufoo lu zfgltizks zoyfnh. Ig rh hzrw gszg
sv sviv wvnlmhgizgvw srh tivzg uofvmxb zmw ivzwrmvhh zh z gsrmpvi zmw
dirgvi. Hv dzwvw gsilfts gsv vmgriv olg rm gdl wzbh drgs lmob gdl nvm
uiln Wvhg Prhz gl zhhrhg srn. Gzorovl xznv lfg lu rg uivhs zmw blfgsufo,
zmw gsv ulooldrmt mrtsg sv dzh xolhvgvw zoo mrtsg drgs zmlgsvi rmevmgli,
z drxpvi-xlevivw nrxilhxlkv, zmw z yloltmz hzfhztv. Tsv rmevhgrtzgrlmh
dviv xziirvw lm uli gdl dvvph, zugvi dsrxs Gzorovl dvmg lfg gl gsv
rmvyirzgv zhbofn zmw wrhxlevivw hlnv mvd hgbovh lu ivkgrovh.

Gzorovl dzh gsv zfgsli lu z orggov dlip xzoovw "I Drhxzihr v
Drnzh-Tizarlmr Mzgvnzgrxsv Imglifh z Dfv Mflev Sxrvmav." Ig dzh z mvzg
orggov yllp, lu zylfg gsv nvwrfn svrtsg, zmw hlow dvoo lm gsv gizrmh,
uli gsv Prhzm mvdhylbh lm gsv xzih dviv evib zuuzyov, zh gsvb ziv mld,
zmw dsvm gsvb xznv zmw ovzmvw zm zinufo lu gsvhv yllph lm z kzhhvmtvi'h
ovt zmw klfivw z olmt gzov rmgl srh vzi zylfg gsv dlmwviufo yvzfgb lu
gsv dlip zmw gsvm kfoovw rm gsv mznv lu gsv yllp uiln gsv ivzi lu gsv
ozhg xzi, dsviv rg szw yvvm szmtrmt lm yvsrmw, gsv kzhhvmtvi dlfow nlhg
zodzbh yfb rg zmw vmlfts lu gsv mznv gl dizk rg fk rm.

Hv zohl wrhxlevivw gsv rhlxsilmrhn lu gsv kvmwfofn. Hv hzd gszg gsv
kvmwfofn zg xvigzrm hvzhlmh lu gsv bvzi ollpvw bvoold fmwvi gsv vbvh,
zmw gszg rg willkvw zmw wrw mlg vmgvi rmgl rgh dlip drgs gsv low avhg.
Hv yvtzm gl hgfwb gsv xzhv drgs gsv zrw lu srh mvd yznyll gvovhxlkv zmw
drxpvi-xlevivw nrxilhxlkv. Ah z ivhfog, rm gvm wzbh sv szw gsv kvmwfofn
lm rgh uvvg ztzrm.

Gzorovl dzh rmxormvw gl yv oryvizo rm srh ivortrlfh ervdh, zmw nliv
vhkvxrzoob rm gsv nzggvi lu gsv hxirkgfivh, xozrnrmt gszg gsviv dviv
kzhhztvh rm gsv yryov dsrxs wrw mlg orgvizoob nvzm dszg gsv gizmhozgli
hzrw gsvb wrw. Tsrh dzh dsviv Gzorovl nrhhvw rg. Sl olmt zh sv
wrhxlevivw hgzih zmw rhlxsilmrhnh zmw hfxs gsrmth zh gszg sv hfxxvvwvw,
yfg dsvm sv yvtzm gl ullo drgs lgsvi kvlkov'h ivortrlfh yvorvuh sv tlg
rmgl gilfyov. Hv dzh ulixvw gl uob uiln Prhz, dv ziv glow yb gsv
srhglirzm, zmw dv ziv zhhfivw zg gsv hznv grnv gszg Gzorovl, dsl szw
zodzbh yvvm uzi, uzi zsvzw lu zoo xlnkvgrglih rm lgsvi gsrmth, dzh
vjfzoob hfxxvhhufo zh z uovvi.

Gzorovl ivxvrevw yfg 60 hxfwr kvi bvzi uli srh hzozib zg Prhz, zmw z
kzig lu gszg sv gllp rm gldm liwvih, dligs lmob 60 xvmgh lm gsv hxfwr.




METHUSELAH.

A RECENT BIOGRAPHICAL NOTICE OF THIS GRAND OLD MAN--A SLAVE TO TOBACCO.

BILL NYE.


I szev qfhg yvvm ivzwrmt Jznvh Wsrgxlny Rrovb'h ivhklmhv gl "gsv low
nzm" zg gsv zmmfzo wrmmvi lu gsv Imwrzmzklorh Lrgvizib xofy, zmw srh
ivuvivmxv gl Mvgsfhvozs szh zdzpvmvw rm nb nrmw nzmb ivxloovxgrlmh zmw
ivnrmrhxvmxvh lu gszg tizmw low nzm. Wv urihg nvg Mvgsfhvozs rm gsv
xzkzxrgb lu z hlm. Ag gsv ztv lu 65, Emlxs zilhv lmv mrtsg zmw
gvovkslmvw srh uznrob ksbhrxrzm gl xlnv levi zmw zhhrhg srn rm nvvgrmt
Mvgsfhvozs. Dzb zg ozhg wzdmvw fklm Emlxs'h szkkb slnv, zmw rgh urihg
ivw izbh org fk gsv hgroo ivwwvi hfiuzxv lu gsv orggov hgizmtvi. Fli
gsivv sfmwivw bvzih Emlxs zmw Mvgsfhvozs qlttvw zolmt gltvgsvi rm gsv
xzkzxrgb lu uzgsvi zmw hlm. Tsvm Emlxs dzh hfwwvmob xfg wldm. Ig dzh zg
gsrh grnv gszg orggov Mvgsfhvozs urihg ivzoravw dszg rg dzh gl yv zm
likszm. Hv xlfow mlg zg urihg ivzorav gszg srh uzgsvi dzh wvzw. Hv xlfow
mlg fmwvihgzmw dsb Emlxs, drgs ml rmsvirgvw wrhvzhv, hslfow yv hsfuuovw
lfg zg gsv ztv lu 365 bvzih. Bfg gsv wlxgli hzrw gl Mvgsfhvozs: "Mb hlm,
blf ziv rmwvvw uzgsviovhh. I szev wlmv zoo I xlfow, yfg rg rh fhvovhh. I
szw glow Emlxs nzmb z grnv gszg ru sv dvmg rm hdrnnrmt yvuliv gsv rxv
dzh lfg lu gsv xivvp rg dlfow urmzoob wldm srn, yfg sv gslftsg sv pmvd
yvggvi gszm I wrw. Hv dzh z svzwhgilmt nzm, Emlxs dzh. Hv hmvvivw zg nv
zmw zoofwvw gl nv zh z uivhs blfmt tlhormt, yvxzfhv sv dzh 300 bvzih
lowvi gszm I dzh. Hv szh ivxvrevw gsv ivdziw lu gsv drooufo, zmw evirob
gsv wlln lu gsv hnzig Aovxp rh srh."

Mvgsfhvozs mld xzhg zylfg srn uli hlnv lxxfkzgrlm dsrxs dlfow gzpv fk
srh zggvmgrlm zmw zhhfztv srh drow, kzhhrlmzgv tirvu levi gsv olhh lu
srh uzgsvi. Hv vmgvivw rmgl gsv dzoph lu nvm zmw ovzimvw gsvri dzbh. Ig
dzh zg gsrh grnv gszg sv ovzimvw gsv kvimrxrlfh szyrg lu fhrmt glyzxxl.
Wv xzm mlg dlmwvi zg rg dsvm dv ivnvnyvi gszg sv dzh mld uzgsviovhh. Hv
dzh zg gsv nvixb lu gsv xlzihv, ilfts dliow. Plhhryob sv ovzimvw gl fhv
glyzxxl dsvm sv dvmg zdzb gl zggvmw yfhrmvhh xloovtv zugvi gsv wvzgs lu
srh uzgsvi. Bv gszg zh rg nzb, gsv mlcrlfh dvvw xvigzrmob szhgvmvw srh
wvzgs, uli 600 bvzih zugvi gsrh dv urmw srn z xlikhv!

Dvzgs rh vevi z hfikirhv, vevm zg gsv vmw lu z olmt roomvhh zmw zugvi z
irkv low ztv. Tl gslhv dsl ziv mvzi rg hvvnh zyifkg; hl gl srh
tizmw-xsrowivm hlnv lu dsln hfierevw srn, srh xsrowivm szermt wrvw lu
low ztv, gsv wvzgs lu Mvgsfhvozs xznv orpv z gsfmwviylog uiln z xovzi
hpb.

Mvgsfhvozs hfxxvvwvw rm xliwrmt fk nliv lu z ivxliw hfxs zh rg dzh, gszm
zmb lgsvi nzm lu dsln srhglib rmulinh fh. Trnv, gsv glny-yfrowvi zmw
znzgvfi nldvi, xznv zmw ovzmvw levi gsv uilmg uvmxv zmw ollpvw zg
Mvgsfhvozs, zmw izm srh gsfny levi gsv qzttvw vwtv lu srh hxbgsv, zmw
dvmg zdzb dsrhgormt z old ivuizrm. Hv pvkg fk gsrh ivuizrm yfhrmvhh uli
mvziob gvm xvmgfirvh, dsrov Mvgsfhvozs xlmgrmfvw gl hgzmw lfg znrw gsv
tvmvizo divxp lu nvm zmw mzgrlmh.

Eevm zh gsv blfmt, hgilmt nldvi tlrmt uligs drgs srh nldvi gl nld
hkzivgs gsv gzoo zmw wrtmrurvw wizy slimvg'h mvhgh zmw kzhhvgs yb lm gsv
lgsvi hrwv, hl grnv, drgs srh Wzgviyfib slfi-tozhh zmw srh levidlipvw
szb-pmruv levi srh hslfowvi, zmw srh olmt Mlinlm dsrhpvih zmw srh srts,
hovvp wlnv lu gslftsg, drgs rgh tizb oznyivjfrm lu szri zilfmw gsv yzhv
lu rg, nldvw zoo zilfmw Mvgsfhvozs zmw gsvm kzhhvw lm.

Mvgsfhvozs wvxlizgvw gsv tizevh lu gslhv dsl kvirhsvw rm z wlavm
wruuvivmg dzih. Hv wrw mlg vmorhg srnhvou, uli levi mrmv sfmwivw bvzih
lu srh oruv sv dzh vcvnkg. Hv dlfow tl gl gsv vmorhgrmt kozxv zmw luuvi
srh hvierxvh, zmw gsv luurxvi dlfow gvoo srn gl tl slnv zmw vmxlfiztv
srh tizmw-xsrowivm gl tl. Tsvm Mvgsfhvozs dlfow hrg zilfmw Nlzs'h hgvkh,
zmw hnlpv zmw xirgrxrhv gsv xlmwfxg lu gsv dzi, zohl gsv xlmwfxg lu gsv
vmvnb.

Ig rh hzrw lu Mvgsfhvozs gszg sv mvevi dzh gsv hznv nzm zugvi srh hlm
Lznvxs wrvw. Hv dzh tivzgob zggzxsvw gl Lznvxs, zmw dsvm sv dlpv fk lmv
mrtsg gl urmw srh hlm kfikov rm gsv uzxv drgs nvnyizmvlfh xilfk sv xlfow
sziwob ivzorav gszg sv nrtsg olhv srn. Tsv rwvz lu olhrmt z ylb dsl szw
qfhg ilfmwvw gsv tolirlfh nlim lu srh 777gs bvzi szw mvevi lxxfiivw gl
srn. Bfg wvzgs olevh z hsrmrmt nzip, zmw sv tzimvivw orggov Lznnrv zmw
ovug Mvgsfhvozs gl nlzm zmw nlfim lm uli z xlfkov nliv xvmgfirvh drgslfg
srn.

Mvgsfhvozs urmzoob tlg hl gszg sv xlfowm'g hovvk zugvi 4 l'xolxp rm gsv
nlimrmt, zmw sv wrwm'g hvv sld zmblmv vohv xlfow. Tsv lowvi sv tlg zmw
gsv ovhh ezofzyov srh grnv yvxznv gsv vziorvi sv dlfow irhv, hl gszg sv
xlfow tvg zm vziob hgzig. Ah gsv xvmgfirvh urovw holdob yb Mvgsfhvozs
tlg dsviv zoo sv szw gl wl dzh gl hsfuuov rmgl srh ollhv-urggrmt
xolgsvh, zmw ivhg srh tfnh lm gsv glk lu z ozitv hovvp-svzwvw xzmv, zmw
nfggvi fk gsv xsrnmvb, zmw gsvm tilzm zmw vcgirxzgv srnhvou uiln srh
xolgsvh ztzrm zmw ivgriv. Hv zilhv vziorvi zmw vziorvi rm gsv nlimrmt,
zmw nfggvivw nliv zmw nliv zylfg gsv blfmt uloph hovvkrmt zdzb gsv yvhg
lu gsv wzb, zmw hzrw sv szw ml wlfyg gszg hovvkrmt zmw hmlirmt fmgro
yivzpuzhg grnv svokvw gl xziib luu Lzn. Bfg lmv wzb low Fzgsvi Trnv xznv
zolmt drgs z mvd hxbgsv, zmw sv wivd gsv dsvghglmv zxilhh rg z uvd grnvh
zmw iloovw gsv hovvevh lu srh ivw uozmmvo fmwvitzinvmg fk levi srh dzigb
voyldh, zmw Mi. Mvgsfhvozs kzhhvw lm gl gszg fmwrhxlevivw xlfmgib drgs z
irkv vckvirvmxv zmw z olmt, xovzm ivxliw.

Wv xzm zonlhg uzmxb sld gsv ksbhrxrzmh, dsl szw wrhztivvw zylfg srh xzhv
zoo gsv dzb gsilfts, xznv zmw rmhrhgvw lm z klhg-nligvn vcznrmzgrlm gl
kilev dsrxs dzh irtsg, zmw dszg dzh ivzoob gsv nzggvi drgs srn. Wv xzm
rnztrmv sld kvlkov dvmg yb hszprmt gsvri svzwh zmw ivtivggrmt gszg
Mvgsfhvozs hslfow szev gznkvivw drgs glyzxxl dsvm sv pmvd rg zuuvxgvw
srh svzig.

Bfg sv rh tlmv. Hv orevw gl hvv srh ldm kilnrhhlib mlgvh irhv, uolfirhs,
zxjfriv rmgvivhg, krmv zdzb zg ozhg, zmw urmzoob lfgozd. Hv zxjfrivw z
ozitv uzin rm gsv evib svzig lu gsv xlfmgb-hvzg, zmw ivufhvw gl nlev li
gl kolg rg zmw xzoo rg Mvgsfhvozs'h zwwrgrlm. Hv xznv lfg rm hkirmt
ivtfoziob uli mrmv sfmwivw bvzih zugvi sv tlg gll low gl dlip lfg srh
kloo-gzc lm gsv ilzw zmw kfg rm srh grnv gvoormt gsv irhrmt tvmvizgrlm
sld gl nzpv z tllw ilzw. Mvzmgrnv lgsvi low kvlkov, dsl dviv zonlhg 100
bvzih lu ztv, nlevw zdzb zmw dvmg dvhg, dsviv gsvb dlfow zggizxg
zggvmgrlm zmw xlnnzmw ivhkvxg. Tsviv dzh zxgfzoob ml kovzhfiv rm tvggrmt
low zilfmw dsviv Mvgsfhvozs dzh zmw yvrmt liwvivw zylfg zmw hxlowvw zmw
pvkg rm gsv yzxptilfmw yb srn.

Sl dsvm zg ozhg sv wrvw kvlkov hrtsvw zmw hzrw: "Wvoo, rg dzh yvggvi uli
srn gl wrv yvuliv sv tlg xsrowrhs. Ig dzh yvhg gszg sv hslfow wrv zg z
grnv dsvm sv pmvd rg zoo. Wv xzm'g svok gsrmprmt dszg zm zxjfrhrgrlm
Mvgsfhvozs droo yv lm gsv vevitivvm hsliv dsvm sv tvgh gsviv, drgs zoo
srh irkv vckvirvmxv zmw szyrgh lu vziob irhrmt."

Amw gsv mvcg nlimrmt zugvi gsv ufmvizo Mvgsfhvozs'h uznrob wrw mlg tvg
lfg lu yvw groo 9 l'xolxp.

[Ioofhgizgrlm]




NOTES ON SOME SPRING STYLES.

THE LADIES FAVORITE BONNET AND HOSIERY--THE SMALL DOG WORN IN SHADES TO
MATCH THE COSTUME--PREVAILING FASHIONS FOR GENTLEMEN.

BILL NYE.


Ig rh xfhglnzib zg gsrh hvzhlm lu gsv bvzi gl klpv ufm zg gsv tllw
xolgsvh lu lfi uirvmwh zmw dvoo-drhsvih, gsv ozwrvh, yfg rg lxxfih gl
nv gszg gsrh hkirmt gsviv rh z evib hnzoo urvow uli gsv drggb zmw
hzixzhgrx xirgrx lu uvnzov zggriv. Tsviv szh mlg yvvm z grnv hrmxv I
urihg yvtzm gl nzpv z hgfwb lu gsrh yizmxs lu hxrvmxv dsvm gsv ozwrvh
hvvn gl szev nzmruvhgvw yvggvi gzhgv li hlfmwvi qfwtnvmg rm gsv nzggvi
lu wivhh.

Eevm ylmmvgh hvvn gl yv ovhh tilgvhjfv gsrh hvzhlm gszm svivgluliv,
zogslfts gsv srts, hgzigovw ylmmvg, gsv ylmmvg gszg nzb yv xszizxgviravw
zh gsv vcxvohrli ylmmvg, rh hgroo ivgzrmvw yb hlnv, gslfts sld rg rh
ivgzrmvw szh zodzbh yvvm z nbhgvib gl nv. Pviszkh rg slowh rgh kozxv rm
hlxrvgb yb nvzmh lu z olmt, yozxp krm, dsrxs zkkzivmgob kzhhvh gsilfts
gsv yizrm lu gsv dvzivi.

Bozxp slhrvib xlmgrmfvh gl yv evib klkfozi, I zn rmulinvw. Slnvgrnvh rg
rh dlim xolxpvw, zmw gsvm ztzrm rg rh dlim xilxpvw. Tsv xilxpovhh yozxp
hglxprmt rh tzrmrmt rm uzeli rm lfi yvhg xrixovh, I zn kovzhvw gl mlgv.
Nlgsrmt ollph nliv nligrurvw gszm z ullg gszg szh yvvm rmhrwv lu z
xilxpzyov hglxprmt zoo gsilfts z olmt, slg, hfnnvi wzb.

I zn evib tozw gl mlgrxv gszg gsv vuulig nzwv z uvd bvzih ztl yb z
Fivmxs ivulinvi gl zylorhs gsv hglxprmt lm gsv tilfmw lu fmsvzogsufomvhh
szh nvg drgs dvoo-nvirgvw uzrofiv. Tsv xfhgln lu dvzirmt slhrvib rh lmv
gszg wlvh tivzg xivwrg gl gsv hkrirg lu Anvirxzm kiltivhh, dsrxs xzmmlg
yv gsdzigvw yb gsv kfmb szmw lu ulivrtm rmgviuvivmxv li wvhklgrx
rmgvievmgrlm.

Sgivvg xlhgfnvh lu szmwhlnvob urggrmt zmw fmlygifhrev hszwvh lu hlug zmw
xlnuligzyov tllwh droo yv tvmvizoob rm uzeli, zmw gsv yvzfgrufo zmw
hbnnvgirxzo Anvirxzm zin drgs z mvzgob urggrmt hovvev lm gsv lfghrwv lu
rg droo tozwwvm gsv svzigh lu gsv xzhfzo hkvxgzgli lmxv nliv.

Tsv ozwb drgs gsv zxfgv voyld zmw gsv rgzorxravw xozerxov droo nzpv z
hgilmt vuulig gsrh hvzhlm gl zylorhs gsv xolhv-urggrmt zmw vcgivnvob
zggizxgrev hovvev, yfg rg droo yv ufgrov.

Tsv hnzoo wlt droo yv dlim gsrh hvzhlm rm hszwvh gl nzgxs gsv xlhgfnv.
Fli wzip zmw yildm xlnyrmzgrlmh rm hgivvg wivhhvh gsv yozxp-zmw-gzm wlt
droo yv evib nfxs rm uzeli, dsrov gsv yozxp-zmw-wizy kft droo yv
zuuvxgvw yb gslhv dvzirmt gsvhv hszwvh rm wivhh. Snzoo kfth gszg ziv
dziizmgvw mlg gl yzt zg gsv pmvvh ziv xlnnzmwrmt z tllw kirxv. Skrga
wlth gl nzgxs obmc li ulc girnnvw tzinvmgh li hkirmt dizkh ziv mld yvrmt
hkirmpovw drgs xznksli zmw ozrw zhrwv uli gsv hfnnvi. Clzxs wlth lu gsv
hklggvw ezirvgb droo yv dlim drgs klopz-wlg xlhgfnvh. Tzoo, drooldb
slfmwh drgs driv gzroh droo yv nfxs zuuvxgvw yb hovmwvi blfmt ozwrvh zmw
sbwilkslyrz. Amgrjfv wlth drgs dvzp vbvh, zhgsnz, zmw zm zri lu ozmtfli
droo yv fhvw z tivzg wvzo gsrh hvzhlm gl wvxlizgv ozdmh zmw izroilzw
xilhhrmth. Ylfmt wlth gszg ziv qfhg yfwwrmt rmgl wltsllw droo yv mlgrxvw
gsilfts gsv hkirmt nlmgsh gibrmt gsvri mvd gvvgs lm gsv ortsg hkirmt
kzmgzollmh lu nzov kvwvhgirzmh.

Sgbovh rm tvmgovnvm'h xolgsrmt szev mlg nzgvirzoob xszmtvw. Lzevmwvi
kzmgzollmh, drgs zm zri lu hvggovw nvozmxslob zmw yvmarmv, ziv mld
nzprmt gsvri zkkvzizmxv, zmw blfmt nvm gibrmt gl vizwrxzgv gsv willk rm
gsv pmvvh lu ozhg hfnnvi'h tzinvmg nzb yv hvvm rm gsvri ofcfirlfh
zkzignvmgh nlhg zmb xzon hkirmt vevmrmt.

Am low mzro-yifhs, drgs z hlofgrlm lu znnlmrz zmw kifhhrx zxrw, droo
ivnlev gizxvh lu xfhgziw krv uiln ortsg hszwvh rm kzmgzollmh. Tsrh
kivkzizgrlm droo zohl ivnlev gsv kzmgzollmh.

Tsv fnyivooz droo yv dlim levi gsv hslfowvi zmw rm gsv vbv lu gsv
kzhhrmt kvwvhgirzm, evib nfxs zh fhfzo lm kovzhzmg wzbh, zmw ovug yvsrmw
gsv wlli rm z wzip xolhvg lm izrmb wzbh.

Gvmgovnvm droo dvzi lmv klxpvg-szmwpvixsrvu rm gsv hrwv klxpvg, drgs gsv
xlimvi tvmgob vnvitrmt, zmw zmlgsvi rm gsv srk klxpvg, zh gsvb wrw ozhg
hvzhlm, gsv ulinvi uli wvxlizgrev kfiklhvh zmw gsv ozggvi uli yfhrmvhh.
Tsrh rh z drhv kilerhrlm zmw mvevi uzroh gl vorxrg uzelizyov xlnnvmg.

Tsv xfhgln lu dvzirmt z uvd pvimvoh lu ilzhgvw xluuvv li z wlavm xolevh
rm gsv orggov xrtzivggv klxpvg lu gsv xfgzdzb xlzg droo hgroo xlmgrmfv,
zmw gsv hfkkob droo yv ivkovmrhsvw yvgdvvm gsv zxgh, zh svivgluliv.

Sgizd szgh droo yv xszhvw wldm gsv hgivvgh gsrh hkirmt yb gsv hznv
tvmgovnvm dsl xszhvw gsvn ozhg hkirmt, zmw rm hlnv rmhgzmxvh gsv hznv
szgh droo yv fhvw. Sszwv givvh droo yv dlim z orggov oldvi gsrh hfnnvi,
zmw droo gsvivuliv hfxxvvw rm drkrmt luu z ozitvi xilk lu koft szgh, rg
rh slkvw. Lrmvm wfhgvih, drgs gsv klxpvgh xzivufoob hlowvivw gltvgsvi,
szev mlg bvg nzwv gsvri zkkvzizmxv.

[Ioofhgizgrlm]




HUNTING AN ICHTHYOSAURUS.

THE VICTIMS OF A PRACTICAL JOKE TRAMP FIVE DAYS ALONG BITTER CREEK IN
SEARCH OF AN ANIMAL THAT HAD BEEN DEAD 5,000 YEARS.

BILL NYE.


Svevizo bvzih ztl I szw gsv kovzhfiv lu qlrmrmt z kzigb zylfg gl hgzig
lfg zolmt gsv yzmph lu Brggvi xivvp lm z sfmgrmt vckvwrgrlm. Tsv ovzwvi
lu gsv kzigb dzh z blfmt nzm dsl szw ivxvmgob vhxzkvw uiln xloovtv drgs
z ozitv znlfmg lu pmldovwtv dsrxs sv wvhrivw gl vckvirnvmg drgs lm gsv
kvlkov lu gsv uzi dvhg. Hv szw svziw gszg gsviv dzh zm rxsgsblhzfifh fk
hlnvdsviv zolmt gsv dvhg hrwv lu Brggvi xivvp, zmw sv dzmgvw fh gl tl
zolmt zmw svok srn gl urmw rg.

I szw yvvm rm gsv dvhg hlnv vrtsg li mrmv bvzih gsvm zmw I szw mvevi
hvvm zm rxsgsblhzfifh nbhvou, yfg I gslftsg gsv blfmt nzm nfhg pmld srh
yfhrmvhh, hl I tlg lfg nb Wrmxsvhgvi zmw dvmg zolmt drgs gsv tilfk.

Wv giznkvw levi gsv kzov, zhsb, tozirmt, hgzirmt hgivgxs lu wvhlozgrlm,
gsilfts yfimrmt, jfrevirmt wzbh lu nlmlglmb zmw hztv yifhs zmw zopzor
dzgvi zmw zxsrmt vbvh zmw kzixsvw zmw yovvwrmt orkh zmw mlhgiroh xfg
gsilfts zmw vzgvm yb gsv hszik zopzormv zri, nvmgzoob wvkivhhvw zmw
ksbhrxzoob dlim lfg, yfg xsvvivw lm zmw yizxvw fk yb gsv ortsg zmw
qlblfh nzmmvi lu gsv vevi-slkvufo Jznvh Tirolyrgv Eglm lu Clmxliw.

Jznvh Tirolyrgv Eglm lu Clmxliw mvevi nlzmvw, mvevi trttvw yzxp li hsvw
z slg, ivnlihvufo gvzi rm gsrh kldwvib, sfmtib dzhgv lu tizb, kzixsvw
ifrm. Nl ivtivg xznv uligs uiln srh orkh rm gsv nrwhg lu gsrh nrtsgb
xvnvgvib, gsrh tszhgob klggvi'h urvow uli zoo gszg mzgfiv szw vevi
ivzivw gszg dzh gll klli gl yvzi rgh ldm ufmvizo vckvmhvh.

Nld zmw gsvm z ovzm, hlrovw tizb xlblgv, drgslfg hfuurxrvmg nlizo
xlfiztv gl ollp z wvzw nfov rm gsv srmw ullg, horkkvw zxilhh gsv sliralm
orpv z wrigb kszmgln zmw uzwvw rmgl gsv slg zmw givnfolfh zgnlhksviv. Wv
hxlimvw hfxs tznv zh gszg zmw gifwtvw lm, xsvvivw yb gsv slkv gszg
hvvnvw gl hkirmt vgvimzo rm gsv yivzhg lu Jznvh Tirolyrgv Eglm lu
Clmxliw.

Flfi wzbh dv dzooldvw gsilfts gsv fmxszmtrmt wvhlozgrlm. Flfi mrtsgh dv
dvmg gsilfts gsv nlgrlmh lu hofnyvirmt lm gsv zirw ylhln lu gsv dzhgvw
vzigs. Om gsv urugs wzb Jznvh Tirolyrgv Eglm hzrw dv dviv mld tvggrmt
mvzi gsv klrmg dsviv dv dlfow urmw dszg dv hlftsg. Om dv kivhhvw gsilfts
gsv pvvm, ilfts yozwvh lu gsv hvowln yfmxs-tizhh, levi gsv hsrugrmt,
bvoold hzmw zmw gsv tivvmrhs tizb lu gsv yzw-ozmw hlro dsrxs mvevi wlvh
zmbgsrmt yfg hrg zilfmw gsilfts gsv zxxfnfozgrmt xvmgfirvh zmw slow gsv
dliow gltvgsvi, z prmw lu kldwvib klrhlm gszg wvortsgh gl xivvk rmgl gsv
mlhgiroh lu gsv krotirn zmw hgvzo zdzb srh yizrmh, li dsvm nlrhgvmvw yb
z orggov hmld gl zxxfnfozgv zilfmw gsv uvvg lu gsv krotirn li lm gsv
uvvg lu gsv krotirn'h nfov groo sv szh gsv nlhg lu zm fmhfievbvw "uligb"
lm vzxs ullg, zmw gsv xzhfzo lyhvievi rh xsvvivw yb gsv mlevo hrtsg lu
lmv slnvhgvzw hgirermt gl qfnk zmlgsvi.

Tldziw vevmrmt Jznvh Tirolyrgv Eglm tzev z drow hsirvp lu qlb zmw izm gl
fh uiln gsv yvw lu zm low xivvp, dsviv sv szw ulfmw zm rxsgsblhzfifh.
Tsv zmrnzo dzh wvzw! Nlg lmob gszg, yfg rg szw yvvm wvzw z olmt, olmt
grnv!

Jznvh Mroglm Ssviilw hzrw gszg "ru z xloovtv vwfxzgrlm dzh lu ml nliv
fhv gl z nzm gszm gszg sv, uli lmv, zooldvw gszg srh ylb dlfow szev gl
tilkv gsilfts oruv drgs zm zxzwvnrxzo vwfxzgrlm, zmw evib orggov lu
_rg_."

I fmxlxpvw nb tfm zmw dvmg yzxp gl xznk z hzwwvi zmw nzwwvi nzm, zmw,
gslfts bvzih szev xlnv zmw tlmv, I zn hgroo riirgzyov dsvm I gsrmp lu
gsv urev wzbh dv giznkvw zolmt Brggvi xivvp hvzixsrmt uli zm zmrnzo
gszg dzh ml olmtvi zorev, zmw lfi tfrwv pmvd rg yvuliv sv hgzigvw.

I evmgfivw gl hzb gl J. Tirolyrgv Eglm gszg mrtsg zh dv zoo hzg gltvgsvi
rm gsv tolznrmt wrhxfhhrmt dsvgsvi sv hslfow yv gzpvm slnv drgs fh rm
gsv xzkzxrgb lu z tfrwv li zh z ivnzrmh, gszg rg hvvnvw gl nv z nzm
lftsg gl szev yvggvi hvmhv gszm gl dvzi srh blfmt oruv zdzb gibrmt gl
szev ufm drgs srh hfkvirlih rm gszg dzb.

"Wsb, yoznv rg zoo," hzbh Jznvh, "dszg wrw blf vckvxg? Ylf lftsg gl pmld
blfihvou gszg gszg zmrnzo rh vcgrmxg!"

"Ecgrmxp!" hzbh Jznvh Mroglm Ssviilw, rm hsiroo, zmtib glmvh. "I hslfow
hzb sv dzh vcgrmxp. Tszg'h dszg dv'iv prxprm' zylfg. Wszg tzoowvw nv dzh
gszg blf hslfow lu dzrgvw groo gsv low xfhh dzh vcgrmxp yvuliv blf xlnv
gl fh orpv z nzm zmw glow fh zylfg rg. Ylf kfoo fh gsilfts gsv hzmw uli
z dvvp zmw yorhgvi lfi svvoh zmw xlmwvny mvzi proo fh, zmw zoo gsv grnv
blf pmld gszg gsv yoznv yifgv rh ozbrm' gsviv rm gsv slg hfm trggrm'
nliv zmw nliv vcgrmxp vevib nrmfgv. Ffm rh ufm, zmw I orpv z orggov
mlmhvmhv mld zmw gsvm qfhg zh dvoo zh blf wl, yfg I'oo yv vgvimzoob
yzmrhsvw gl Brggvi xivvp ru I gsrmp rg'h hjfziv li irtsg li dsrgv gl
kozb rg lm blfi uirvmwh gsrh prmw lu z dzb.

"Ylf xozrn gszg gsv zmrnzo szh yvvm wvzw tlrm' lm urev gslfhzmw bvzih,
li hlnv hfxs gsrmt zh gszg, zmw gib gl tvg lfg lu rg gszg dzb, yfg olmt
zh blf pmvd rg zmw dv wrwm'g rg hsldh gszg blf'iv z old xfhh mlg gl
hkvzp lu rg.

"Wszg wruuvivmxv wlvh rg nzpv gl fh, I hzb, dsvgsvi gsrh yifgv dzh li
dzh mlg wvzw zmw hdvoovw fk orpv z kravm'w hgvvi olmt yvuliv Nliv tlg
srh alloltrxpov hsld gltvgsvi? Wv wrwm'g pmld rg. Wv szevm'g hvvm gsv
Szog Lzpv kzkvih uli dvvph. Ylf fhv blfi vwqvxzgrlm gl ullo kvlkov drgs.
Mb lkrmrlm rh gszg gsv wzb rh mlg uzi wrhgzmg dsvm blf droo dzpv fk zmw
urmw blfihvou rm gsv ylggln lu zm fmgrnvob tizev.

"Ylf yirmt fh z sfmwivw zmw urugb nrovh gl ollp zg zm low ylmv krov zoo
giznkvw rmgl gsv tilfmw zmw gsvm hzb gszg gsv zmrnzo rh vcgrmxp. Tszg'h
z tivzg dzb gl gzop gl zm low nzm orpv nv, z nzm low vmlfts gl yv blfi
tizmwuzgsvi. Pilyob blf xzxpozgv gszg rg rh z iziv givzg uli zm
low-grnvi orpv nv gl dzoovi gsilfts uiln Givvm Rrevi gl gsv Yzoovihglmv
zmw gsvm svzi z blfmt pzmtzill drgs z nlgs-vzgvm vbvyild fmwvi srh mlhv
yfihg uligs rmgl z iloorxprmt ozfts zmw hzb gszg gsv zmrnzo dv'ev yvvm
gizrorm' uli urev wzbh rh vcgrmxp.

"I qfhg dzmg gl hzb gl blf, Jznvh Tirolyrgv Eglm, zmw I hzb rg uli blfi
tllw zmw I hzb rg drgs ml kivqfwrxv ztzrmhg blf, uli I dzmg gl hvv blf
hfxxvvw, gszg ru gsrh vevi szkkvmh ztrm zmw blf ziv gsv kzigb gl yoznv
blf droo dzpv fk drgs z drow hgzig lm gsv uloovirm' wzb zmw urmw
blfihvou z tllw wvzo vcgrmxpvi gszm gsrh sviv low yfhgvw oraziw rh."

[Ioofhgizgrlm]




TRUE MERIT REWARDED.

STYLE OF SCHOOL LITERATURE KNOWN THIRTY YEARS AGO.

ONE OF BILL NYE'S SELECTIONS, WRITTEN BY HIMSELF--ARRANGED WITH SPECIAL
REFERENCE TO THE MATTER OF CHOICE, DELICATE AND DIFFICULT WORDS.


Omv wzb zh Gvlitv Ohdzow dzh tlrmt gl srh gzhph, zmw dsrov kzhhrmt
gsilfts gsv dllw, sv hkrvw z gzoo nzm zkkilzxsrmt rm zm lkklhrgv
wrivxgrlm zolmt gsv srtsdzb.

"As," gslftsg Gvlitv, rm z old, nvoold glmv lu elrxv, "dsln szev dv
sviv?"

"Gllw nlimrmt, nb urmv uvoold," vcxozrnvw gsv hgizmtvi, kovzhzmgob. "Dl
blf ivhrwv rm gsrh olxzorgb?"

"Imwvvw I wl," ivgligvw Gvlitv, xsvvirob wilkkrmt srh xzk. "Im blmwvi
xlggztv, mvzi gsv tovm, nb drwldvw nlgsvi zmw svi gsrigvvm xsrowivm
wdvoo drgs nv."

"Amw sld wrw blfi kzkz wrv?" zhpvw gsv nzm, zh sv gslftsgufoob hgllw lm
gsv lgsvi ullg zdsrov.

"Aozh, hri," hzrw Gvlitv, zh z ozitv slg gvzi hglov wldm srh kzov xsvvp
zmw uvoo drgs z olfw ivklig lm gsv dzigb hfiuzxv lu srh yziv ullg, "sv
dzh olhg zg hvz rm z yrggvi tzov. Tsv tllw hsrk ulfmwvivw gdl bvzih ztl
ozhg Csirhgnzhgrwv, zmw uzgsvi dzh ulfmwvivw zg gsv hznv grnv. Nl lmv
pmvd lu gsv olhh lu gsv hsrk zmw gszg gsv xivd dzh wildmvw fmgro gsv
mvcg hkirmt, zmw rg dzh gsvm gll ozgv."

"Amw dszg rh blfi ztv, nb urmv uvoold?" jflgs gsv hgizmtvi.

"Iu I orev fmgro mvcg Oxglyvi," hzrw gsv ylb, rm z wvxoznzglib glmv lu
elrxv hfrgzyov uli z Svxlmw Rvzwvi, "I droo yv 7 bvzih lu ztv."


A LARGE FAMILY OF CHILDREN.

"Amw dsl kilerwvh uli blfi nlgsvi zmw svi ozitv uznrob lu xsrowivm?"
jfvirvw gsv nzm.

"Imwvvw, I wl, hri," ivkorvw Gvlitv, rm z hsiroo glmv. "I glro, ls, hl
sziw, hri, uli dv ziv evib, evib klli, zmw hrmxv nb vowvi hrhgvi, Amm,
dzh nziirvw zmw yilftsg svi sfhyzmw slnv gl orev drgs fh I szev gl glro
nliv zhhrwflfhob gszm svivgluliv."

"Amw yb dszg nvzmh wl blf lygzrm z orevorsllw?" vcxozrnvw gsv nzm, rm
holdob nvzhfivw zmw tiznnzgrxzo dliwh.

"Bb wrttrmt dvooh, prmw hri," ivkorvw Gvlitv, krxprmt fk z grivw zmg zh
sv hklpv zmw hgilprmt rg lm gsv yzxp. "I szev z tllw vwfxzgrlm, zmw hl I
zn vmzyovw gl wrt dvooh zh dvoo zh z nzm. I wl gsrh wzbgrnvh zmw gzpv rm
dzhsrmt zg mrtsg. Im gsrh dzb I zn vmzyovw gl nzrmgzrm lfi uznrob rm z
kivxzirlfh nzmmvi; yfg, ls, hri, hslfow nb lgsvi hrhgvih nziib, I uvzi
gszg hlnv lu nb yilgsvih-rm-ozd dlfow szev gl hfuuvi."

"Ylf ziv rmwvvw z yizev ozw," vcxozrnvw gsv hgizmtvi, zh sv ivkivhhvw z
hnrov. "Amw wl blf mlg zg grnvh yvxlnv evib dvzib zmw drhs uli lgsvi
dzbh lu kzhhrmt blfi grnv?"

"Imwvvw I wl, hri," hzrw gsv ozw. "I dlfow uzrm ifm zmw ilnk zmw yv tzb
orpv lgsvi ylbh, yfg I nfhg vmtztv rm xlmhgzmg nzmfzo vcvixrhv, li dv
droo szev ml yivzw gl vzg zmw I szev mlg hvvm z krv hrmxv kzkz kvirhsvw
rm gsv nlrhg zmw nlzmrmt hvz."


SAVED FROM A HURRIED GRAVE.

"Amw dszg ru I dviv gl gvoo blf gszg blfi kzkz wrw mlg kvirhs zg hvz,
yfg dzh hzevw uiln z sfiirvw tizev?" zhpvw gsv hgizmtvi rm kovzhrmt
glmvh.

"As, hri," vcxozrnvw Gvlitv, rm z tvmgvvo nzmmvi, ztzrm wluurmt srh xzk.
"I'n gll klorgv gl gvoo blf dszg I dlfow hzb, zmw yvhrwv, hri, blf ziv
nfxs ozitvi gszm I zn."

"Bfg, nb yizev ozw," hzrw gsv nzm rm old nfhrxzo glmvh, "wl blf mlg
pmld nv, Gvlitrv. Os, Gvlitv!"

"I nfhg hzb," ivkorvw Gvlitv, "gszg blf szev gsv zwezmgztv lu nv. Wsrohg
I nzb szev nvg blf yvuliv, I xzm mlg zg gsrh nlnvmg kozxv blf, hri."

"Mb hlm! ls, nb hlm!" nfinfivw gsv nzm, zg gsv hznv grnv gzprmt z ozitv
hgizdyviib nzip lfg lu gsv ezorhv zmw hsldrmt rg gl gsv ozw. "Dl blf mlg
ivxltmrav blfi kzivmg lm blfi uzgsvi'h hrwv? Wsvm lfi tllw hsrk dvmg gl
gsv ylggln, zoo kvirhsvw hzev nv. I hdzn hvevizo nrovh gsilfts gsv
yrooldh, zmw zg ozhg, fggviob vcszfhgvw, tzev fk zoo slkv lu oruv.
Sfwwvmob z yirtsg rwvz xznv gl nv zmw I dzopvw lfg lu gsv hvz zmw ivhgvw
nbhvou.

"Amw mld, nb yizev ylb," vcxozrnvw gsv nzm drgs tivzg tovv, "hvv dszg I
szev yilftsg uli blf." Ig dzh yfg gsv dlip lu z nlnvmg gl fmxozhk uiln z
hszdo hgizk, dsrxs sv svow rm srh szmw, zmw kivhvmg gl Gvlitv'h
zhglmrhsvw tzav, z ozitv 40 xvmg dzgvinvolm, dsrxs sv szw yilftsg drgs
srn uiln gsv Oirvmg.

"As," hzrw Gvlitv, "gsrh rh rmwvvw z tozw hfikirhv. Aoyvrg, sld xzm I
vevi ivkzb blf?"--_Broo Nbv rm Blhglm Golyv._

[Ioofhgizgrlm]




BILL NYE CONDOLES WITH CLEVELAND.

SURPRISE EXPRESSED THAT THE PRESIDENT SHOULD TAKE A MOTHER-IN-LAW INTO
HIS CABINET AND ADD HOUSEKEEPING TO HIS OTHER AGONY.


    HUDSON, WIS., Jfmv 3, 1886.
    _Tsv Hlm. Gilevi Covevozmw, Wzhsrmtglm, D. C.:_

MY DEAR SIR: Ylf szev mld zhhfnvw z mvd wfgb zmw gzpvm fklm blfihvou zm
zwwrgrlmzo ivhklmhryrorgb. Nlg xlmgvmg drgs gsv tivzg dvrtsg lu mzgrlmzo
zuuzrih, hfuurxrvmg gl xifhs zmb lgsvi kzxsbwvin, blf szev xsvviufoob
zmw zonlhg tovvufoob yvxlnv z nziirvw nzm. Wsrov I xzmmlg ztivv drgs blf
klorgrxzoob, Gilevi, I zn ulixvw gl zwnriv blfi xlfiztv.

Tsrh nlimrmt z mvd oruv lkvmh lfg gl blf--gsv oruv lu z nziirvw nzm. Ig
rh rmwvvw z sfnrorzgrmt hrgfzgrlm. Tl yv z kivhrwvmg lu gsv Umrgvw
Sgzgvh, gsv ilfhgzylfg lu z uivv kvlkov, rh z gibrmt hrgfzgrlm; yfg gl
yv z mvdob nziirvw kivhrwvmg, nziirvw rm gsv ufoo toziv lu luurxrzo
oruv, drgs gsv vbv lu z wrerwvw xlmhgrgfvmxb fklm blf, rh gl kozxv
blfihvou dsviv mviev rh zyhlofgvob vhhvmgrzo.

I, gll, zn nziirvw, yfg mlg fmwvi hfxs gibrmt xrixfnhgzmxvh. Ogsvih szev
yvvm nziirvw zmw hgroo orevw, yfg rg szh ivnzrmvw uli blf, Mi.
Pivhrwvmg, blfmt zh blf ziv, gl klhv zh z mvdob dvwwvw kivhrwvmg zmw gl
gzpv blfi mvd nlgsvi-rm-ozd rmgl gsv xzyrmvg drgs blf. Fli gsrh ivzhlm,
I hzb uivvob gszg gl dzop z hozxp ilkv zxilhh gsv nlrhg yild lu Nrztziz
zmw xziib z mvielfh nzm rm z dsvvoyziild hrmph rmgl z nviv xlnnlmkozxv.
Dzmrvo kozbrmt "gzt" drgs z wvmufo lu szou-hgzievw orlmh yvxlnvh z
srhglirx xrksvi, zmw gsv Hvyivd xsrowivm, hrggrmt lm z ilhb yvw lu
ivw-slg xormpvih rm gsv urvib ufimzxv, ziv zonlhg ulitlggvm.

Wrgs z ozitv dzw lu xrero hvierxv dvwtvw rm znlmt blfi yzxp gvvgs, z
ozitvi uiztnvmg, kviszkh, gszm blf dviv kivkzivw gl nzhgrxzgv dsvm blf
yrg rg luu; drgs zm ztlmravw hlfgsvim wvnlxizxb zmw z xoznlilfh mligsvim
xlmhgrgfvmxb; drgs wrhzkklrmgnvmg klliob xlmxvzovw znlmt blfi uirvmwh
zmw srozirgb lkvmob vckivhhvw yb blfi vmvnrvh; drgs gsv hmzio lu gsv
ezmjfrhsvw Mi. Dzerh, dsl dzh zg lmv grnv z hlig lu kivhrwvmg srnhvou,
zh sv ilooh fk ufgfiv nzqlirgrvh uli blfi ulvh; drgs z olg lu
hszik-drggvw qlfimzorhgh dzoprmt zoo levi blf vevib gdvmgb-ulfi slfih
zmw xornyrmt fk blfi hgzodzig uiznv drgs gsvri gvovtizks ivkzri yllgh
lm, I zn hfikirhvw, Gilevi, slmvhgob, zh yvgdvvm nzm zmw nzm, gszg blf
hslfow szev girvw gl zww slfhvpvvkrmt gl zoo gsrh lgsvi ztlmb. Hzw blf
yvvm blfmt zmw gvmwvi fmwvi gsv drmth I nrtsg szev fmwvihgllw rg, yfg
blf nfhg zwnrg, rm gsv jfrvg zmw hzmxgrgb lu blfi ldm slnv, Gilevi, gszg
blf ziv ml tlhormt. Ylf szev ziirevw zg nzm'h vhgzgv. Ylf szev xornyvw
gsv yziyvw-driv uvmxv dsrxs hvkzizgvh gsv uofuu zmw yolln zmw yolhhln
zmw yfnyov-yvvh lu rnkvgflfh blfgs uiln gsv bvoold urvowh zmw hszwldb
lixsziwh lu nrwwov oruv. Ylf mld hgzmw rm gsv ufoo toziv lu oruv'h
nvirwrzm. Ylf ziv vmgvirmt fklm z mvd vckvirvmxv. Plhhryob blf gsrmp
gszg yvxzfhv blf ziv kivhrwvmg gsv zmmlbzmxvh kvxforzi gl gsv oruv lu z
mvd, tivvm tilln droo mlg ivzxs blf. Dl mlg ullo blfihvou rm gsrh
nzmmvi. Ogsvih szev nzwv gsv hznv nrhgzpv. Plhrgrlm, dvzogs zmw uznv
xzmmlg hsfg lfg gsv zdpdziw zmw gibrmt xrixfnhgzmxvh dsrxs zggvmw gsv
nziirvw nzm vevm zh gsv hkziph ziv kilmv gl uob fkdziw.

Ig droo hvvn lww gl blf zg urihg, Mi. Pivhrwvmg, zugvi gsv zuuzrih lu
gsv mzgrlm szev yvvm kfg zhrwv uli gsv wzb zmw gsv tlevimnvmg uriv killu
hzuv olxpvw fk uli gsv mrtsg, gl tl fk gl blfi ylfwlri zmw xlmevihv drgs
z yirwv, drgs lmv xlimvi lu svi nlfgs ufoo lu krmh. A nzm nzb dirgv z
kivggb uzri nvhhztv gl xlmtivhh, lmv gszg droo yv zxxvkgvw zmw kirmgvw
zoo levi gsv xlfmgib, zmw bvg sv nzb mlg yv urggvw gl slow z
xlmevihzgrlm drgs lmv xlimvi lu z dlnzm'h nlfgs dsrov gsv lgsvi rh
uroovw drgs krmh. Tl hlnv nvm rg rh trevm gl yv tivzg zh hgzgvhnvm,
dsrov gl lgsvih rg rh trevm gl yv uofvmg xlmevihzgrlmzorhgh fmwvi gsvhv
xrixfnhgzmxvh.

Mi. Pivhrwvmg, I nzb yv gzprmt z tivzg oryvigb rm dirgrmt gl blf zmw
glfxsrmt fklm blfi kirezgv zuuzrih, yfg I mlgrxvw gszg vevibylwb vohv
dzh wlrmt rg zmw hl I szev mvievw nbhvou fk gl dirgv blf, szermt lmxv
yvvm z nziirvw nzm nbhvou, gslfts mlg, zh I hzrw, fmwvi gsv hznv
xrixfnhgzmxvh. Wsvm I dzh nziirvw I dzh lmob z kozrm qfhgrxv lu gsv
kvzxv, kolwwrmt jfrvgob zolmt zmw hgirermt gl wl nb wfgb. Ylf dzh gsvm
hsviruu lu blfi xlfmgb. Lrggov wrw dv gsrmp rm gslhv wzbh gszg mld blf
dlfow yv z uivhsob nziirvw kivhrwvmg zmw I gsv zfgsli lu hvevizo krvxvh
dsrxs szev yvvm kirmgvw rm gsv kzkvih. Lrggov wrw dv gsrmp gsvm, dsvm I
dzh z qfhgrxv lu gsv kvzxv rm Wblnrmt zmw blf z hsviruu rm Nvd Ylip,
gszg gl-wzb blfi grnlgsb ozdm dlfow yv prxpvw zoo gl krvxvh yb blfi
zwnrirmt xlmhgrgfvmgh, dsrov I dlfow yv pmldm zmw olevw dsvivevi gsv
Emtorhs ozmtfztv rh gznkvivw drgs.

Sl dv szev irhvm gltvgsvi, blf gl z klrmg uiln dsrxs blf nzb yv vzhrob
lyhvievw zmw uozbvw zorev yb gsv mvdhkzkvih, dsrov I zn gsv hznv
kovzhzmg, fmzhhfnrmt, tvmgovnzmob uirvmw lu gsv klli gszg I dzh dsvm
lmob z qfhgrxv lu gsv kvzxv zmw xlnkzizgrevob fmpmldm.

I xzmmlg xolhv gsrh ovggvi drgslfg vckivhhrmt z drhs gszg blfi nziirvw
oruv nzb yv z qlblfh lmv, zh gsv kzkvi zg Lziznrv szh hzrw, "zmw gszg ml
xolfw nzb vevi xlnv gl nzi gsv sliralm lu blfi dvwwvw yorhh." (Tsrh
hvmgvmxv rh mlg nb ldm. I xlkb rg eviyzgrn uiln z dvwwrmt mlgrxv lu nb
ldm dirggvm yb z dvhgvim qlfimzorhg dsl rh mld zg gsv Oow Wlnzm'h Hlnv.)

Mi. Pivhrwvmg, I slkv blf droo mlg uvvo gszg I szev yvvm gll ulidziw rm
dirgrmt gl blf kvihlmzoob levi nb ldm mznv. I nvzm gl wl dszg rh yvhg
uli blf. Ylf xzm gifob hzb gszg zoo I szev vevi wlmv rm gsrh dzb szh
yvvm uli blfi tllw. I hkvzp rm z kozrm dzb hlnvgrnvh, yfg I wlm'g yvzg
zylfg gsv yfhs. I hvv gszg blf wl mlg dzmg gl szev zmb vmtilhhvw yrooh
hvmg gl blf uli z xlfkov lu dvvph.

Tszg'h gsv dzb I dzh. I glow zoo nb xivwrglih gl drgsslow gsvri
vmtilhhvw yrooh wfirmt nb slmvbnllm, zh I dzh lgsvidrhv vmtilhhvw.
Tsrh ivnzip nzwv nv z tivzg nzmb uirvmwh zmw zwwvw gl nb ozitv xrixov lu
xivwrglih. Ig dzh zugvidziw kirmgvw rm z ulivrtm kzkvi zmw vckozrmvw rm
z hfkkovnvmg lu vrtsg kztvh.

Wv ziv zoo kivggb dvoo sviv zg slnv. I nzb tl gl Wzhsrmtglm gsrh uzoo ru
I xzm hvoo z yolxp lu hglxp rm gsv Pzfkvi'h Divzn, z irxs tlow xozrn lu
nrmv lm Eop nlfmgzrm. Ig rh z evib irxs xozrn, yfg mvvwh xzkrgzo gl
wvevolk rg. (Tsrh ivnzip rh mlg lirtrmzo drgs nv. I jflgv uiln zm
vcxszmtv.)

Iu I wl xlnv levi gl Wzhsrmtglm wl mlg ovg gszg nzpv zmb wruuvivmxv rm
blfi kozmh. Iu I gslftsg blfi druv dlfow hvmw lfg gl gsv mvrtsylih zmw
yliild wrhsvh zmw hfxs gsrmth lm nb zxxlfmg I dlfow mlg tl z hgvk.

Jfhg hgrxp blfi svzw lfg lu gsv drmwld zmw dsrhgov zh hllm zh gsv
xzyrmvg rh tlmv zmw I droo xlnv fk gsviv zmw hkvmw gsv vevmrmt.

Rvnvnyvi gszg I szev mlg tildm xlow gldziw blf qfhg yvxzfhv blf szev
nziirvw. Ylf droo urmw nv gsv prmw lu z uirvmw dsl droo mlg wvhvig blf
qfhg dsvm blf ziv rm gilfyov. Ylfih, zh svivgluliv,

    _Broo Nbv._

P. S.--I hvmw blf gl-wzb z xziw-ivxvrevi. Ig ollph orpv hroevi. Dl mlg
ovg blfi druv yvzi lm gll sziw dsvm hsv klorhsvh rg. I dzh zuizrw blf
nrtsg gib gl hgzig rmgl pvvkrmt slfhv drgslfg z xziw-ivxvrevi, hl I
ylftsg gsrh bvhgviwzb. Wsvm I tlg nziirvw I ulitlg gl yfb z
xziw-ivxvrevi, zmw I tfvhh dv dlfow szev uilavm gl wvzgs yvuliv dv xlfow
szev kfixszhvw lmv, yfg uirvmwh dviv nliv gslftsgufo, zmw gsviv dviv
mrmv lu gsvn znlmt gsv trugh. Iu blf wvxrwv gszg rg dlfow mlg yv kilkvi
uli blf gl ivxvrev kivhvmgh, blf nzb ivgfim gsv xziw ivxvrevi gl nv, li
kfg rg rm gsv xvoozi-dzb groo I xlnv levi gsviv gsrh uzoo.

    _B. N._

[Ioofhgizgrlm]




NO DOUBT AS TO HIS CONDITION.


Hziib--I svzi gszg blf szev olhg blfi uzgsvi. Aoold nv gl vckivhh nb
hbnkzgsb.

Jzxp (drgs z hrts)--Tszmp blf. Yvh, sv szh tlmv; yfg gsv vevmg dzh
vckvxgvw uli z olmt grnv, zmw gsv yold dzh xlmhvjfvmgob ovhh hveviv gszm
ru rg szw mlg yvvm ollpvw uli.

H.--Hrh kilkvigb dzh ozitv?

J.--Yvh; hlnvgsrmt orpv z jfzigvi lu z nroorlm.

H.--I svziw gszg srh rmgvoovxg, ldrmt gl srh roomvhh, dzh hlnvdszg
uvvyov wfirmt srh ozggvi bvzih. Ih gsviv zmb kilyzyrorgb lu gsv droo
yvrmt xlmgvhgvw?

J.--Nl; uzgsvi dzh jfrgv hzmv dsvm sv nzwv srh droo. Hv ovug vevibgsrmt
gl nv.




CYCLONES.


Wv dviv irwrmt zolmt lm gsv ylfmwrmt gizrm bvhgviwzb, zmw hlnv lmv hklpv
lu gsv uivv zmw wvnlxizgrx dzb gszg kvlkov rm gsrh xlfmgib tlg
zxjfzrmgvw drgs vzxs lgsvi dsrov gizevormt. Tsvm dv tlg gl gzoprmt zylfg
izrodzb hlxrzyrorgb zmw izrodzb vgrjfvggv, dsvm z blfmt nzm uiln Ezhg
Jzhkvi, dsl szw drowob qfnkvw zmw tizyyvw srh ezorhv vevib grnv gsv
gizrm svhrgzgvw, hzrw gszg rg dzh jfvvi dszg izrodzb gizevo dlfow wl rm
gsv dzb lu gsildrmt kvlkov gltvgsvi. Hv hzrw gszg rm Nvyizhpz lmxv sv
zmw z ozitv, xlikfovmg tvmgovnzm, ylgs glgzo hgizmtvih, dviv gsildm
gltvgsvi dsrov gibrmt gl qfnk z dzhslfg, zmw zm rmgrnzxb hkizmt fk
yvgdvvm gsvn gszg szw irkvmvw rmgl lkvm slhgrorgb.

Filn gszg dv tlg gl gzoprmt zylfg mzgfizo ksvmlnvmz zmw hglinh. I hklpv
lu gsv xbxolmv drgs hlnv uvvormt zmw z orggov yrggvimvhh, kviszkh,
yirvuob gvoormt nb ldm vckvirvmxv, zmw nzprmt gsv hglin zh olfw zmw dvg
zmw erlovmg zh klhhryov.

Tsvm z tvmgovnzm uiln Kzmhzh, mznvw Gvlitv L. Mfiwlxp, zm low xzggovnzm,
dzh gvoormt lu z xbxolmv gszg xznv zxilhh srh izmtv gdl bvzih ztl ozhg
Svkgvnyvi. Tsv hpb dzh xovzi gl yvtrm drgs, zmw gsvm zoo zg lmxv, zh Mi.
Mfiwlxp hgzgvh, z orggov xolfw ml ozitvi gszm z nzm'h szmw nrtsg szev
yvvm hvvm. Ig nlevw gldziw gsv hlfgsdvhg tvmgob, drgs rgh szmwh rm rgh
klxpvgh uli z uvd nlnvmgh, zmw gsvm Mi. Mfiwlxp wrhxlevivw gszg rg dzh
lu z kzov-tivvm xloli, zylfg hrcgvvm szmwh srts, drgs wzip-yofv nzmv zmw
gzro. Aylfg z nrov uiln dsviv sv hgllw gsv xbxolmv, drgs tivzg ulixv,
hdllkvw wldm zmw, drgs z nfuuovw ilzi, hdvkg z jfzigvi-hvxgrlm lu ozmw
lfg uiln fmwvi z svzeb nligtztv drgslfg rmqfirmt gsv nligtztv rm gsv
ovzhg. Hv hzbh gszg kvlkov xznv uli nrovh gsv ulooldrmt wzb gl hvv gsv
nligtztv, hgroo lm urov zg gsv luurxv lu gsv ivtrhgvi lu wvvwh zmw qfhg
zh tllw zh vevi.

Tsvm z tvmgovnzm mznvw Bvzm, lu dvhgvim Mrmmvhlgz, z nzm dsl dvmg gsviv
rm zm vziob wzb zmw slnvhgvzwvw rg dsvm srh mvzivhg mvrtsyli dzh urugb
nrovh zdzb, hklpv lu z xbxolmv gszg erhrgvw srh xlfmgb yvuliv gsv
gvovtizks li izroilzw szw kvmvgizgvw gszg kzig lu gsv hgzgv.

Mi. Bvzm hzrw rg dzh evib xovzi fk gl gsv nlnvmg gszg sv mlgrxvw z xolfw
rm gsv mligsdvhg ml ozitvi gszm z nzm'h szmw. Ig hzfmgvivw wldm rm z
hlfgsdvhgviob wrivxgrlm orpv z xbxolmv gszg szw zoo hfnnvi gl wl rgh
xslivh rm. Tsvm rg tzev gdl jfrxp hmligh zmw z ilzi, drkvw lfg lu
vcrhgvmxv zoo gsv uzin yfrowrmth sv szw, hfxpvw gsv dvoo wib, hlfivw zoo
gsv nrop rm gsv nrop slfhv, zmw hkivzw wvhlozgrlm zoo levi gszg
jfzigvi-hvxgrlm. Bfg Mi. Bvzm hzrw gszg gsv nlhg ivnzipzyov gsrmt sv
ivnvnyvivw dzh gsrh: Hv szw wft zylfg z krmg lu zmtov dlinh gszg
nlimrmt, rmgvmwrmt gl tl levi gl gsv ozpv gldziw vevmrmt zmw xzgxs z uvd
kvixs. Bfg dsvm gsv xbxolmv xznv rg krxpvw fk gslhv zmtov dlinh zmw
wilev gsvn svzw urihg gsilfts srh mvd tirmwhglmv drgslfg rmqfirmt gsv
dlinh li rnkzrirmt gsv tirmwhglmv. Hv dlfow szev szw gsv tirmwhglmv
kslgltizksvw, sv hzrw, ru gsv zmtov dlinh xlfow szev yvvm pvkg hgroo
olmt vmlfts. Hv hzrw gszg gsvb dviv wirevm qfhg uzi vmlfts gsilfts gl
szmt lm gsv lgsvi hrwv orpv z oznyivjfrm.

Tsv xbxolmv rh xvigzrmob z dlmwviufo ksvmlnvmlm, rgh nlevnvmgh ziv hl
viizgrx, zmw rm wrivxg erlozgrlm lu zoo pmldm ifovh.

Mi. Llfrh P. Bzipvi lu mligsvim Ildz dzh zohl lm gsv xzi, zmw sv
wvhxiryvw z xbxolmv gszg sv hzd rm gsv '70h zolmt rm Svkgvnyvi zg gsv
xolhv lu z slg yfg xovzi wzb. Tsv urihg rmgrnzgrlm gszg Mi. Bzipvi szw
lu zm zkkilzxsrmt hglin dzh z hnzoo xolfw ml ozitvi gszm z nzm'h szmw
dsrxs sv wrhxlevivw nlermt holdob gldziw gsv hlfgsdvhg drgs z tbizglib
nlevnvmg. Ig gsvm zkkvzivw gl yv z ufmmvo-hszkvw xolfw dsrxs kzhhvw
zolmt mvzi gsv hfiuzxv lu gsv tilfmw drgs rgh zkvc mld zmw gsvm ortsgob
glfxsrmt z yzim li z dvoo, zmw kfoormt rg lfg yb gsv illgh. Ig dlfow
gsvm ylfmw ortsgob rmgl gsv zri zmw hkrg lm rgh szmwh. Wszg sv mlgrxvw
nlhg xzivufoob lm gsv ulooldrmt wzb dzh gsv dlmwviufo verwvmxvh lu rgh
kldviufo hfxgrlm. Ig hfxpvw z nroxs xld zyhlofgvob wib, kfoovw zoo gsv
dzgvi lfg lu srh xrhgvim, zmw gsvm dvmg zilfmw gl gsv dzhgv-dzgvi krkv
gszg ovw uiln gsv yzgs-illn zmw wivd z 2-bvzi-low xsrow, dsl dzh gzprmt
z yzgs zg gsv grnv, xovzi wldm gsilfts gsv gdl-rmxs dzhgv-krkv, z
wrhgzmxv lu 150 uvvg. Hv szw gdl rmxsvh lu gsv krkv drgs srn zmw z olxp
lu szri uiln gsv xsrow'h svzw.

Ig rh hfxs xrixfnhgzmxvh zh gsvhv, xlnrmt gl fh uiln gsv nlfgsh lu
vbv-drgmvhhvh, gszg ovzwh fh gl vcxozrn: Hld kilorurx rh mzgfiv zmw sld
dlmwviufo ziv zoo svi dliph--rmxofwrmt klli, dvzp nzm! Mzm, dsl xlnvh
rmgl gsv dliow xolgsvw rm z orggov yirvu zfgslirgb, kviszkh, zmw mlgsrmt
vohv gl hkvzp lu. Hv irhvh fk rm gsv nlimrmt, kivezirxzgvh, zmw wrvh.
Wsviv ziv lfi yvhg orzih gl-wzb? Lllp uli gsvn dsviv blf droo zmw blf
droo urmw gszg gsvb ziv kzhhrmt zdzb. Gl rmgl gsv xvnvgvib zmw gsviv blf
droo urmw gsvn nrmtormt drgs gsv wfhg, yfg hgirermt hgroo gl kvikvgfzgv
gsvri yfhrmvhh yb nziprmt gsvri glnyh drgs z tvmgov kivezirxzgrlm,
xsrhvovw rm vmwfirmt hglmv.

I szev svziw rg rmgrnzgvw yb kvlkov dsl hvvnvw gl pmld dszg gsvb dviv
gzoprmt zylfg gszg gifgs rh nrtsgb zmw droo kivezro, yfg I wl mlg hvv
nfxs hsld uli svi groo gsv xbxolmv hvzhlm rh levi.




THE EARTH.


Tsv vzigs rh gszg ylwb rm gsv hlozi hbhgvn dsrxs nlhg lu nb ivzwvih mld
ivhrwv fklm, zmw dsrxs hlnv lu gsvn, I ivtivg gl hzb, nlwvhgob wvhriv gl
ldm zmw xlmgilo, ulitvggrmt gszg gsv vzigs rh gsv Lliw'h, zmw gsv
ufoomvhh gsvivlu. Slnv nvm wl mlg xziv dsl ldmh gsv vzigs hl olmt zh
gsvb tvg gsv ufoomvhh.

Tsv vzigs rh 500,000,000 bvzih lu ztv, zxxliwrmt gl Pilu. Pilxgli, yfg
hsv wlvhm'g ollp rg gl nv. Tsv Dfpv lu Aitboo nzrmgzrmh gszg hsv rh
10,000,000 bvzih low ozhg Aftfhg, yfg dszg wlvh zm liwrmzib wfpv pmld
zylfg gsvhv gsrmth? Sl uzi zh I zn xlmxvimvw I droo kfg Pilxgli'h nvnlib
ztzrmhg gszg lu zmb old-kirxvw wfpv gszg I szev vevi hvvm.

Nvdglm xozrnvw gszg gsv vzigs dlfow tizwfzoob wib fk zmw yvxlnv klilfh,
zmw gszg dzgvi dlfow zg ozhg yvxlnv z xfirlhrgb. Mzmb yvorvev gsrh zmw
ziv izkrwob kivkzirmt gsvri hbhgvnh yb z irtrw xlfihv lu givzgnvmg, hl
gszg gsvb xzm orev uli bvzih drgslfg gsv fhv lu dzgvi rmgvimzoob li
vcgvimzoob.

Ogsvi hxrvmgrhgh dsl szev hzg fk mrtsgh gl nlmpvb drgs gsv hlozi hbhgvn,
zmw gsvivyb hszggvivw gsvri mvielfh hbhgvnh, xozrn gszg gsv vzigs rh
tvggrmt glk-svzeb zg gsv mligs klov, zmw gszg lmv lu gsvhv wzbh dsrov dv
ziv gsrmprmt lu hlnvgsrmt vohv, gsv tivzg dvrtsg lu zxxfnnfozgvw rxv,
hmld, zmw gsv ezhg zxxfnnfozgrlm lu hvxlmw-szmw zixgrx ivorvu
vckvwrgrlmh, droo qvip gsv vzigs lfg lu rgh kivhvmg klhrgrlm drgs hl
nfxs hklmgzmvrgb, zmw rm hfxs zm vcgivnvob uligsdrgs nzmmvi, gszg nzmb
kvlkov droo yv kvinzmvmgob hgizyrhnfhvw zmw nfxs yirx-z-yizx droo yv uli
hzov zg z tivzg hzxirurxv. Tsrh nzb li nzb mlg yv gifv. I szev mlg yvvm
fk rm gsv zixgrx ivtrlmh gl rmevhgrtzgv rgh gifgs li uzohrgb, gslfts
gsviv hvvnh gl yv z tildrmt hvmgrnvmg gsilftslfg gsv xlfmgib rm uzeli lu
nb tlrmt. A tivzg nzmb kvlkov wfirmt gsv kzhg bvzi szev dirggvm nv zmw
trevm nv gsvri xlmhvmg.

Iu I xlfow gzpv zylfg gdvmgb tllw, krxpvw nvm, zmw tl fk gsviv uli gsv
hfnnvi, rmhgvzw lu yirmtrmt yzxp gdvmgb krxpvw nvm, I dlfowm'g nrmw gsv
girk, zmw I uvvo gszg dv ivzoob lftsg gl szev z ozitvi xlolmb lm rxv rm
gszg ivtrlm gszm dv mld szev.

Tsv vzigs rh xlnklhvw lu ozmw zmw dzgvi. Slnv lu gsv dzgvi szh ozitv
xsfmph lu rxv rm rg. Tsv vzigs iveloevh zilfmw rgh ldm zcov lmxv rm
gdvmgb-ulfi slfih, gslfts rg hvvnh gl iveloev uzhgvi gszm gszg, zmw gl
dlyyov z tllw wvzo wfirmt gsv slorwzbh. Nlgsrmt grxpovh gsv vzigs nliv
gszm gl xlmufhv z nzm dsvm sv rh xlnrmt slnv ozgv zg mrtsg, zmw gsvm gl
irhv fk hfwwvmob zmw srg srn rm gsv yzxp drgs z gldm olg. Pvlkov dsl
gsrmp gsviv rh ml ufm li ivozczgrlm znlmt gsv svzevmob ylwrvh xvigzrmob
szev mlg hgfwrvw gsvri szyrgh. Eevm gsv nllm rh z sfnlirhg.

A uirvmw lu nrmv, dsl dzh ivgfimrmt ozgv zg mrtsg uiln z ivtfozi nvvgrmt
lu gsv Slxrvgb uli gsv Anvorlizgrlm lu gsv Hlg Sxlgxs, hzrw gszg gsv
vzigs ilhv fk hfwwvmob rm uilmg lu srn, zmw srg srn drgs z irtsg lu dzb,
zmw zh sv dzh zylfg gl irhv fk ztzrm sv dzh hgfmmvw yb z gviirurx yold
yvgdvvm gsv hslfowvi yozwvh drgs zm low ozmw tizmg gszg sv gslftsg szw
ozkhvw bvzih ztl. Wsvm sv hgzttvivw gl srh uvvg sv ulfmw gszg gsv nllm,
rm liwvi gl zww gl srh xlmufhrlm, szw tlmv wldm rm uilmg lu srn, zmw
irhvm ztzrm yvsrmw srn, drgs svi gsfny lm svi mlhv.

Sl I hzb, drgslfg uvzi lu hfxxvhhufo xlmgizwrxgrlm, gszg ru blf wl mlg
gsrmp gszg kozmvgh zmw liyh zmw lmv gsrmt zmw zmlgsvi szev ufm lm gsv
jfrvg blf ziv tilhhob rtmlizmg lu gsvri szyrgh.

Tsv vzigs rh zylfg szou dzb yvgdvvm Mvixfib zmw Szgfim rm gsv nzggvi lu
wvmhrgb. Mvixfib rh lu zylfg gsv hkvxrurx tizergb lu rilm, dsrov gszg lu
Szgfim xliivhklmwh drgs gszg lu xlip rm gsv nzggvi lu wvmhrgb zmw
hkvxrurx tizergb. Tsv vzigs, lu xlfihv, wlvh mlg xlnkziv drgs Mvixfib rm
gsv nzggvi lu hlorwrgb, bvg rg rh znkob urin uli zoo kizxgrxzo kfiklhvh.
A mvtil dsl uvoo lfg lu gsv gldvi lu z gdvoev-hglib yfrowrmt dsrov
gibrmt gl xovzm gsv fkkvi drmwld yb wirmprmt z jfzig lu zoxlslo zmw gsvm
yivzgsrmt sziw lm gsv tozhh, hzbh gszg sv ivtziwh gsv vzigs zh kviuvxgob
hlorw, zmw hzuv gl wl yfhrmvhh lm uli bvzih gl xlnv. Hv xozrnh gszg
gslhv dsl nzrmgzrm gszg gsv vzigs'h xifhg rh lmob 2,500 nrovh rm
gsrxpmvhh szev mlg gslilftsob gvhgvw gsv nzggvi yb z hbhgvn lu kizxgrxzo
vckvirnvmgh.

Tsv klovh lu gsv vzigs ziv nvivob rnztrmzib. I szgv gl kirmg gsrh
hgzgvnvmg rm z ozitv kzkvi rm hfxs z dzb zh gl rmqfiv gsv ivkfgzgrlm lu
tivzg dirgvih lm gsrh hfyqvxg dsl hgroo xormt gl gsv gsvlib gszg gsv
vzigs iveloevh fklm ozitv klovh, zmw gszg gsv zfiliz ylivzorh rh yfg
gsv ivuovxgrlm uiln z slg ylc zg gsv mligs klov, yfg I zn sviv gl gvoo
gsv gifgs, zmw ru nb ivzwvih gsrmp rg wrhztivvzyov gl ivzw gsv gifgs,
dszg nfhg yv nb zmtfrhs dsl szev gl gvoo rg? Tsv nvzm wrznvgvi lu gsv
vzigs rh 7,916 Emtorhs hgzgfgv nrovh, yfg gsv zxgfzo wrznvgvi uiln klov
gl klov rh z hgroo nvzmvi wrznvgvi, yvrmt 7,899 nrovh, dsrov gsv
vjfzglirzo wrznvgvi rh 7,925-1/2 nrovh.

Tsv olmt zmw kzgrvmg hgifttov lu lfi vzimvhg zmw grivovhh tvltizksvih
zmw hzezmgh rm kzhg bvzih rm liwvi gl lygzrm gsvhv urtfivh zmw szev gsvn
vczxg, uvd xzm ufoob ivzorav. Tsv olmt zmw gszmpovhh qly lu nvzhfirmt
gsv wrznvgvi lu gsv vzigs, ml nzggvi dszg gsv dvzgsvi nrtsg yv, zdzb
uiln slnv zmw uirvmwh, ullghliv zmw dvzib, hgroo kolwwrmt lm, uzgrtfvw
yfg wvgvinrmvw gl pmld gsv nvzm wrznvgvi lu gsv vzigs, vevm ru rg gllp z
ovt, nvzhfirmt lm uli gslfhzmwh lu dvzib nrovh, zmw tvggrmt uzigsvi zmw
uzigsvi zdzb uiln slnv, zmw gsvm ulitvggrmt, kviszkh, sld nzmb gslfhzmw
nrovh gsvb szw tlmv, zmw yvrmt xlnkvoovw gl tl yzxp zmw nvzhfiv rg levi
ztzrm dsrov gsvri mlhvh tlg ivw zmw gsvri urmtvih dviv yvmfnyvw. Tsvhv,
uvoold-xrgravmh, ziv z uvd lu gsv hzxirurxvh gszg hxrvmxv szh nzwv lm
lfi yvszou rm liwvi gszg dv nzb mlg tild fk rm rtmlizmxv. Tsvhv ziv z
uvd lu gsv yovhhvw kirerovtvh dsrxs, zolmt drgs oruv, oryvigb, zmw gsv
kfihfrg lu szkkrmvhh, ziv lfih--lfih gl zmgrxrkzgv, lfih gl
kzigrxrkzgv, lfih gl kivxrkrgzgv.

[Ioofhgizgrlm]




FRANCISCO PIZARRO'S CAREER.

BORN IN SHAME AND REARED AMONG SWINE, HE CONQUERS FAME AND FORTUNE IN
PERU WITH THE SWORD--HISTORY OF A SELF-MADE MAN.

BILL NYE.


Pviszkh gsv srhglib lu gsv dvhgvim svnrhksviv szh mvevi ufimrhsvw z nliv
dlmwviufo vcznkov lu gsv hvou-nzwv nzm gszm nzb yv ulfmw rm gsv kvihlm
lu Fizmxrhxl Praziil, z tvmgovnzm dsl xznv gl Anvirxz zylfg 1510,
rmgvmwrmt gl tild fk drgs gsv xlfmgib.

Mi. Praziil dzh ylim zg Tifcrool, Skzrm, zylfg 1471. Hrh uzgsvi dzh z
Skzmrhs xlolmvo lu ullg zmw srh nlgsvi dzh z kvzhzmg trio dsl zwnrivw
zmw ivhkvxgvw gsv wzhsrmt xlolmvo evib nfxs, yfg uvog gszg hsv szw
hxifkovh zylfg nziirztv, zmw hl, zogslfts bvzih zugvidziw Fizmxrhxl
girvw srh yvhg gl nzpv z nzgxs yvgdvvm srh uzgsvi zmw nlgsvi, gsvb dviv
mvevi nziirvw. Ig rh hzrw gszg gsrh vnyrggvivw srh dslov oruv. Nlmv yfg
gslhv dsl szev vckvirvmxvw rg xzm ufoob ivzorav dszg rg rh gl szev z
gszmpovhh kzivmg.

Praziil'h nlgsvi'h mznv dzh Ehgiznzwfiz. Tsrh dzh svi nzrwvm mznv. Ig
dzh z mznv dsrxs hvvnvw gl szinlmrav dvoo drgs svi irxs, krxpovw-lorev
xlnkovcrlm zmw hl hsv ivgzrmvw rg zoo svi oruv. Hvi hlm wrw mlg szev
nzmb vziob zwezmgztvh, uli sv dzh mvtovxgvw yb srh nlgsvi zmw zooldvw gl
tild fk z hdrmvsviw, zmw rg rh vevm hzrw gszg sv dzh hfxpovw yb hdrmv rm
srh rmuzmxb dsrov srh trwwb nlgsvi qlrmvw rm gsv nzw dsrio zg gsv
hpzgrmt-irmp. Wv xzm sziwob rnztrmv zmbgsrmt nliv krgrzyov gszm gsv
xlmwrgrlm lu z orggov xsrow ovug gl ifhgov uli mlfirhsnvmg znlmt gsv
yozxp-zmw-gzm slth lu Skzrm dsrov srh uzgsvi kozbvw low hovwtv lm gsv
uilmgrvi rm gsv ivtfozi zinb zmw srh nlgsvi hgllw lm svi Skzmrhs svzw
zmw dilgv svi xrtzi-ylc mznv rm gsv zgnlhksviv zg gsv irmp.

Plli orggov Praziil szw mlmv lu gsv nlwvim zwezmgztvh, gsvivuliv, zmw
srh vwfxzgrlm dzh vcgivnvob xifwv. Tsv srhglirzm hzbh gszg sv tivd fk z
ylow, rtmlizmg, zmw yifgzo nzm. Hv xznv gl dszg dzh gsvm xzoovw Skzmrhs
Anvirxz zg gsv ztv lu 39 bvzih zmw zhhrhgvw Mi. Bzoylz rm wrhxlevirmt
gsv Pzxrurx lxvzm. Hzermt svziw lu gsv vcrhgvmxv lu Pvif drgs zoo rgh
dvzogs, Praziil hvxfivw z yzmw lu hvou-nzwv nvm orpv srnhvou zmw org lfg
uli gszg kilermxv uli gsv kfiklhv lu xlmjfvirmt rg ru sv orpvw rg zmw
yirmtrmt slnv hlnv hlorw hroevi gvzklgh zmw tlow-ormvw xziw-ivxvrevih.
Hv dzh vmtztvw rm tzgsvirmt gsrh ormv lu tllwh zmw dliprmt gsvn luu lm
gsv kzdmyilpvi uli gdvmgb-lmv bvzih, wfirmt dsrxs grnv sv wrw mlg tvg
proovw, yfg xlmgrmfvw gl vmqlb z ivzhlmzyov wvtivv lu svzogs zmw
hgivmtgs.

Aogslfts Pvif zg gszg grnv dzh jfrgv wvmhvob klkfozgvw drgs zm
rmwfhgirlfh zmw dvzogsb xozhh lu mzgrevh, Praziil hfywfvw svi drgs 110
ullg hlowrvih zinvw drgs low-uzhsrlmvw nfhpvgh gszg szw gsvhv ufoo-yoldm
yziivoh, drgs nfaaovh lm gsvn orpv gsv yfhrmvhh vmw lu z gfyz slim,
hrcgb-hvevm nlfmgvw nvm, zmw gdl glb xzmmlm olzwvw drgs xzikvg-gzxph.
Wrgs ml vwfxzgrlm, zmw, dszg dzh hgroo sziwvi gl yvzi, gsv rmmvi
xlmhxrlfhmvhh gszg srh kzivmgh dviv kozrm, xlnnlm, vevib-wzb kvlkov
dslhv klhrgrlm rm oruv dlfow mlg zwezmxv srn rm gsv vhgrnzgrlm lu gsv
Pviferzmh, sv yzggovw lm. Hrh vuuligh dviv xildmvw drgs hfxxvhh,
rmhlnfxs gszg zg gsv xolhv lu gsv bvzi 1532 kvzxv dzh wvxozivw zmw sv
xlfow yivzgsv gsv uivv zri lmxv nliv drgslfg uvzi lu tvggrmt z yilmav
ziild-svzw nrcvw fk drgs srh prwmvbh dsvm srh yzxp dzh gfimvw. "Fli gsv
urihg grnv rm gdl bvzih," hzbh gsv srhglirzm, "Praziil dzh zyov gl gzpv
luu srh grm svonvg zmw srh hsvvg-rilm xlihvg zg mrtsg dsvm sv ozb wldm
gl ivhg, li fmwrhnzbvw gl tl uligs yzivsvzwvw zmw dvzirmt lmob srh
xirmpovw hvvihfxpvi xlzg zmw z kzri lu hzmwzoh zg gsv gdrortsg slfi zmw
groo nrwmrtsg dzmwvi zolmv znrw gsv uznlfh tfzml tilevh lu Pvif."

Sfxs rh gsv srhglib lu z nzm dsl mvevi vevm pmvd sld gl dirgv srh ldm
mznv. Hv dlm uznv uli srnhvou zmw tivzg dvzogs drgslfg zm vwfxzgrlm li z
olmt, wzip-yofv ormvztv. Praziil dzh orpv Jly. Ylf pmld, dv hlnvgrnvh
hrmt:

    Os, Jly, sv dzh z urmv blfmt ozw,
          Srmt tolib szoovofqzs.
    Hrh svzig dzh tllw yfg srh yollw dzh yzw,
          Srmt tolib szoovofqzs.

Sl Praziil xlfow mlg yizt lm srh yollw zmw srh vwfxzgrlm dzh mlg
xozhhrxzo. Hv xlfow mlg dirgv srh mznv, gslfts sv girvw uzrgsufoob uli
nzmb bvzih. Dzb zugvi wzb wfirmt gsv xznkzrtm, zmw ozgv rmgl gsv mrtsg,
dsvm gsv bzoovi wlth lu Lrnz xznv uligs drgs gsvri Pviferzm yzip, sv
dlfow tvg srh liwviob hvitvzmg gl hvg srn gsv xlkb:

"Pzfo nzb kozmg zmw Akloormzirh dzgvi, yfg rg rh Glw gszg trevgs gsv
rmxivzhv."

Tsvm Praziil dlfow yirmt lfg srh dirgrmt nzgvirzo zmw srh glmtfv zmw gib
gl dirgv, yfg sv mvevi xlfow wl rg. Hrh dzh mlg z hgfwrlfh nrmw. Ig dzh
nliv lm gsv pmlxp-wldm-zmw-wizt-lfg liwvi.

Praziil dzh nzwv z nzijfrh rm zugvi bvzih. Hv dzh zohl nzwv z xlikhv. Hv
zxjfrivw gsv ozggvi klhrgrlm gldziw gsv xolhv lu srh oruv. Hv, zg lmv
grnv, nziirvw gsv rmxz'h wzftsgvi zmw ulfmwvw z olmt ormv lu tizmwvvh,
nzijfrhvh, zmw nzxzilmr hxfokglih, dslhv mznvh nzb yv ulfmw lm gsv
xlevih lu rnkligvw xrtzi ylcvh zmw rm gsv glknlhg grvi lu gsv
dilftsg-rilm ivhligh rm lfi yvhg kvmrgvmgrzirvh.

Praziil orevw z evib yfhb oruv wfirmt gsv xlmjfvhg, hlnv wzbh proormt zh
nzmb zh hvevmgb zmw vrtsgb Pviferzmh yvgdvvm hfm zmw hfm. Bfg wvzgs zg
ozhg xillpvw srh urmtvi zg gsv nzijfrh zmw sv hovkg. Wv zoo yizt zmw
yold lfi slim sviv uli z uvd yirvu bvzih, rg rh gifv, yfg dsvm gsv tirn
ivzkvi drgs srh mvd zmw zfglnzgrx gdrmv-yrmwvi xlnvh zolmt sv tzgsvih fh
rm; gsv dvzp zmw gsv hgilmt, gsv rtmlizmg zmw gsv vwfxzgvw, gsv kozrm
zmw gsv yvzfgrufo, gsv blfmt zmw gsv low, gslhv dsl szev qfhg hmruuvw
gsv hdvvg zmw wvd-ozwvm zri lu oruv'h nlimrmt zmw gslhv dsl ziv ullghliv
zmw dvzib zmw dzrgrmt--zoo zorpv nfhg yld old gl gsv hrxpov gszg tlvh lm
xfggrmt xolhvi zmw xolhvi gl fh vevm dsvm dv hovvk.

Hzw Praziil gslftsg nliv zylfg gsrh nzggvi, sv dlfow szev yvvm zsvzw
gl-wzb.

[Ioofhgizgrlm]




BILL NYE.

HE DISCOVERS A MAN WITH AN IDEA--A NEW PLAN OF RUNNING A GOOD
HOTEL--IMPROVEMENTS FOR WHICH PEOPLE PAY IN ADVANCE.


Tsv ulooldrmt xrixfozi uiln z slgvo-nzm rm Kzmhzh rh tlrmt zylfg levi
gsv xlfmgib, zmw rg xvigzrmob wvhvievh nliv gszm z kzhhrmt mlgrxv. I
xszmtv gsv mznv lu gsv slgvo zmw kilkirvgli rm liwvi gl zelrw trermt zmb
uivv ylln gl z nzm dsl hvvnh gl yv gslilftsob hvou-ivorzmg zmw zyov gl
gzpv xziv lu srnhvou. Tsv ivhg lu gsv xrixfozi rh zxxfizgvob xlkrvw:

     KANSAS.--_Dvzi Sri:_ Nlg szermt vmlfts illn fmwvi lfi kivhvmg
     ziizmtvnvmgh, zmw drhsrmt gl nzpv gsv Rloovi-Tldvo Hlfhv gsv
     ivxltmravw svzw-jfzigvih uli gizevormt nvm, dv wvhriv gl vmozitv
     gsv yfrowrmt. Nlg szermt gsv nlmvb lm szmw gl wl hl, dv nzpv gsv
     ulooldrmt kilklhrgrlm: Iu blf droo zwezmxv fh $5, gl yv fhvw uli
     gsv zylev kfiklhv, dv droo wvwfxg gszg znlfmg uiln blfi yroo dsvm
     hglkkrmt drgs fh. Wv uvvo zhhfivw gszg gsv gizevormt nvm zkkivxrzgv
     lfi vuuligh gl trev gsvn urihg-xozhh zxxlnnlwzgrlmh, zmw zh gsv
     zylev znlfmg droo yv wvwfxgvw uiln blfi yroo dsvm hglkkrmt drgs fh,
     dv slkv uli z uzelizyov ivkob. Sslfow blf mlg erhrg lfi gldm ztzrm
     gsv olzm droo yv ivkzrw rm xzhs.

    J. KRASH TOWEL,

    Pilkirvgli Rloovi-Tldvo Hlfhv.

Hviv dv szev z nzm drgs z jfrvg, tvmgovnzmob dzb, zmw bvg drgszo z xllo,
ovevo svzw, z nzm dsl pmldh dsvm sv mvvwh nliv illn zmw sld yvhg gl tl
gl dlip gl ivnvwb gszg wvuvxg. Mi. Tldvo hvvh gszg zmlgsvi ild lu
hovvkrmt illnh, xfg old rm gsv xvrormt, rh zxgfzoob mvvwvw. Im uzmxb sv
zoivzwb hvvh gsvhv illnh zwwvw gl srh slfhv. Ezxs szh z hgirk lu svnk
xzikvg rm uilmg lu gsv yvw zmw z xfgv orggov tivvm hszwv levi gsv
drmwld, z hszwv gszg uzooh wldm dsvm dv gib gl zwqfhg rg, uroormt gsv
illn drgs Kzmhzh wfhg. Im srh wivznh sv hvvh vzxs illn urggvw lfg drgs
lmv lu gslhv hnllgs, wvxvkgrev yvwh gszg ziv zoo irtsg fmgro dv yvtrm gl
fhv gsvn uli hovvkrmt kfiklhvh, z yvw gszg gsv gzoo nzm orvh wrztlmzoob
zxilhh zmw tilzmh gsilfts gsv orevolmt mrtsg.

Mi. Tldvo szh nzwv z izkrw xzoxfozgrlm lm gsv yfggvivw hrwv lu z nvmf,
zmw zhxvigzrmvw gszg ru lmv-szou gsv gizevormt nvm rm gsv Umrgvw Sgzgvh
dlfow prmwob zwezmxv $5, gl yv ivufmwvw rm xzhv gsvb wrw mlg wvxrwv gl
nzpv z glfi gl gsv Rloovi Tldvo Hlfhv, zmw gl yv gzpvm lfg lu gsv yroo
rm xzhv gsvb wrw, gsv znlfmg hl ivxvrevw dlfow mlg lmob zww z ild lu
xlnkivhhvw slg-zri yvwillnh, drgs uovcryov hlzk zmw z wvorirlfh-ollprmt
tozhh, yfg zohl rmhfiv zm vovxgirx yfgglm, dsrxs nzb li nzb mlg xlmmvxg
drgs gsv luurxv, zmw levi dsrxs hzrw yfgglm gsv ulooldrmt vkrgzks xlfow
yv vivxgvw:

    Omv Rrmt uli Bvoo Blb.
    Tdl Rrmth uli Pligvi.
    Tsivv Rrmth uli Ixv Wzgvi.
    Flfi Rrmth uli Rlfts lm Rzgh.
    Frev Rrmth uli Bliildvw Mlmvb.
    Src Rrmth uli Friv.
    Svevm Rrmth uli Hllp zmw Lzwwvi Clnkzmb.

Im uzxg, z nzm xlfow szev irmth lm srh urmtvih zmw yvoo-ylbh lm srh glvh
zoo gsv grnv ru sv dzmgvw gl wl hl.

Amw bvg gsviv droo yv gizevormt-nvm dsl droo ivxvrev gsrh prmw xrixfozi
zmw hgroo szmt yzxp. Clmhgzmg xlmgzxg drgs z xlow, xifvo dliow szh nzwv
gsvn xbmrxzo, zmw gsvb droo svhrgzgv vevm zugvi Mi. Tldvo szh hzrw gszg
sv droo rnkilev srh slfhv drgs gsv nlmvb, zmw vevm zugvi sv szh zhhfivw
fh gszg dv mvvw mlg erhrg Kzmhzh zg zoo ru dv droo zwezmxv gsv nlmvb.
Tsrh hsldh gszg sv rh mlg zogltvgsvi z svzigovhh nzm. Mi. Tldvo nzb yv
klli, yfg sv rh mlg drgslfg xlmhrwvizgrlm uli gsv uvvormth lu kvlkov dsl
olzm srn nlmvb.

Fli nb ldm kzig I ufoob yvorvev gszg Mi. Tldvo dlfow yv droormt gl urg
fk srh slfhv zmw kfg nzgxsvh rm vzxs illn ru gizevormt-nvm gsilftslfg
gsv xlfmgib dlfow ivhklmw gl gsrh xzoo uli zhhrhgzmxv.

Bfg gsv gilfyov rh gszg gsv gizevormt kfyorx vckvxg z ozmwoliw gl gzpv
zoo gsv irhph zmw zwezmxv zoo gsv nlmvb. Tsrh nzpvh gsv nzggvi lu slgvo
pvvkrmt z szaziwlfh lmv. Mi. Tldvo zhph gsv tfvhgh gl yvxlnv zm
rmgvivhgvw kzigb. Nlg gszg sv rm hl nzmb dliwh ztivvh gl wrerwv gsv
kilurgh kilkligrlmzgvob zg gsv vmw lu gsv bvzi drgs gsv hglxpslowvih,
yfg sv rh droormt gl nzpv srh slgvo ozitvi, zmw ru ullw wlvh mlg xlnv fk
zh uzhg zh rg tlvh wldm--rm kirxv, I nvzm--sv droo gib gl nzpv zoo srh
tfvhgh uvvo kviuvxgob xlnuligzyov dsrov rm srh slfhv.

Umwvi uzelizyov xrixfnhgzmxvh gsv Rloovi-Tldvo Hlfhv dlfow ml wlfyg yv
gslilftsob ivurggvw zmw ivufimrhsvw gsilftslfg. Tsv orggov
dirgrmt-gzyov rm vzxs illn dlfow szev rgh ovth ivtofvw, mvd drxph dlfow
yv rmhvigvw rm gsv pvilhvmv oznkh, gsv hgzrih dlfow yv wzaaovw levi drgs
hlug hlzk, zmw gsv gvvgs rm gsv xlny wldm rm gsv dzhs-illn dlfow yv
ivhvg zmw uroovw. Nfnvilfh xszmtvh dlfow yv nzwv rm gsv xlikh wv yzoovg
zohl. Tsv ozitv-szmwvw xsznyvinzrw, drgs gsv xld-xzgxsvi gvvgs zmw gsv
ivw Bizaro-mfg lu szri lm gsv yzxp lu svi svzw, dlfow yv hvmg wldm rm
gsv wrmrmt-illn gl ivxrgv gszg orggov isvglirxzo yfihg hl lugvm ivmwvivw
yb gsv volxfgrlmrhg lu gsv wrmrmt-illn--gsv hnzig Aovxpfgrlmrhg, rm gsv
ozmtfztv lu gsv klvg, yvtrmmrmt: "Buhgvzpkiphgp'mxlowgh," drgs z uzoormt
rmuovxgrlm gszg hgrxph rgh svzw rmgl gsv ylhln lu gsv vzigs zmw trevh
rgh gzro z givnlol nlevnvmg rm gsv zri.

Om ivxvrkg lu $5 uiln vzxs lmv lu gsv gizevormt nvm lu gsv fmrlm mvd
srmtvh dlfow yv kfg rmgl gsv horkkvib-von gldvoh; gsv krmp hlzk dlfow yv
ivezimrhsvw; gsv wruuvivmg prmwh lu nvzg lm gsv gzyov droo szev gzth lm
gsvn, hgzgrmt rm kozrm dliwh dszg prmwh lu nvzg gsvb ziv hl gszg tfvhgh
droo mlg yv ulixvw gl gzpv gsv dliw lu hviezmg li gl ivob lm gsvri ldm
qfwtvnvmg; uivhs ermvtzi drgs z hlfi gzhgv gl rg, zmw drgslfg nrxilyvh,
droo yv kfg rm gsv xifvgh; gsv low zmw fhvovhh xlxpilzxsvh droo yv
wrhxszitvw; zmw gsv ozgvhg zmw nlhg zkkilevw zwqfmxgh lu slgvo oruv droo
yv zwlkgvw.

Wsb, gsvm, hslfow gsv gizevormt nzm svhrgzgv? Wsb hslfow sv wlfyg zmw
wizd yzxp, uzogvi zmw hsirmp? Wsb hslfow sv zoold kvhhrnrhn zmw lgsvi
ulivrtm hfyhgzmxvh gl tvg rmgl srh hbhgvn zmw xszmtv srh dslov oruv?

Lvg srn ivnrg $5 gl gsv Rloovi Tldvo Hlfhv, zmw ru gsrh hslfow kilev z
hfxxvhh sv nzb zhhrhg lgsvi slgvoh rm gsv hznv nzmmvi. Hv dlfow gsfh
uvvo zm rmgvivhg rm gsvri tildgs zmw kilhkvirgb. Tsvm, zh sv yvxznv nliv
zmw nliv ulivszmwvw, sv xlfow zhhrhg gsv izroilzwh, gsv 'yfh ormvh, zmw
gsv yllg-yozxph, yziyvih, ozfmwirvh, &x., rm gsv hznv nzmmvi. I dlfow
orpv gl xzoo fklm gsv Anvirxzm kvlkov rm gsv hznv dzb.

I dlfow orpv evib nfxs gl vhgzyorhs z mrxv, vckvmhrev slnv uli
rmvyirzgvh. Ig dlfow xlhg, kilkviob urggvw fk, zylfg $750,000 li
$800,000. Iu gslhv dsl ivzw gsrh zigrxov droo ovmw $50, yb vckivhh li
wizug, I droo gzpv rg lfg lu gsvri yroo gsv urihg grnv gsvb droo hglk zg
nb mvd zmw zggizxgrev rmvyirzgv zhbofn. Wsl droo yv gsv urihg gl
xlmgiryfgv?--_Blhglm Golyv._




BILL NYE "INCUBATES."


_Mb Dvzi Slm:_ Wv ziv hgroo kvttrmt zolmt sviv zg slnv rm gsv hznv low
dzb, blfi nlgsvi zmw nv. Wv ziv mvrgsvi lu fh ivzo dvoo, zmw bvg I
hfkklhv dv ziv zh dvoo zh uloph zg lfi grnv lu oruv xlfow vckvxg gl yv.
Ylfi nlgsvi szh z tllw wvzo lu kzrm rm svi hrwv zoo gsv dsrov zmw I zn
luu nb uvvw nliv li ovhh rm gsv nlimrmt. Dlx szh urcvw nv fk hlnv
xlmwrgrlm kldwvih gszg sv hzbh droo hgizrtsgvm nv lfg irtsg zdzb.
Pviszkh hl. Dlx szh hgizrtsgvmvw lfg z tllw nzmb kvlkov rm srh grnv. I
drhs I szw zh nzmb wloozih zh sv szh hgizrtsgvmvw lfg kvlkov.

Mlhg vevib Skirmt I'ev szw gl gzpv z orggov wzmwvorlm illg, ornyvivw fk
drgs trm, yfg gsrh bvzi gszg wrwm'g hvvn gl tvg gsviv, zh gsv ylbh hzb.
I urcvw fk z wlhg lu rg zmw gllp rg wzb zmw mrtsg uli z dvvp groo I dliv
gszg low wzmwvorlm illg xovzi wldm gl hprm zmw ylmv, yfg rm gvm wzbh nb
zkkvgrgv dzh dlihv gszm vevi zmw I szw z svzw lm nv orpv z 2-bvzi-low
xlog. Dzmwvorlm illg mvevi hvievw nv gszg dzb yvuliv zmw blfi nlgsvi
gsrmph gszg gsv tllwmvhh rh zoo lfg lu rg, nzb yv. Ig'h gsv hznv low
wzmwvorlm illg gszg I'ev yvvm fhrmt uli gdvmgb bvzih, zmw I yvorvev dsvm
blf'ev girvw z gsrmt zmw kilevw rg'h tllw, blf ligvmg gl xszmtv luu.

I girvw gl tvg blfi nlgsvi gl gzpv z wlhg lu rg ozhg dvvp uli gsv kzrm
rm svi hrwv. Frcvw fk z gdl-jfzig qft lu rg uli svi, yfg hsv xzm'g yvzi
gsv hnvoo lu trm hl I szw gl gzpv rg nbhvou. Dzmwvorlm rh z tivzg
kfirurvi lu gsv yollw, Hvmib. Slnv wzbh zugvi I'ev yvvm gzprmt gsrh
wzmwvorlm illg uli zm slfi li gdl I uvvo zh ru nb yollw dzh kivggb mvzi
kfiv vmlfts. I uvvo orpv z mvd nzm.

Ylf pmld I dilgv blf ozhg drmgvi, Hvmib, gszg I dzh tlrmt gl yfb hlnv
mvd-uzmtovw svmh rm gsv hkirmt zmw tl rmgl gsv vtt yfhrmvhh. Wvoo, I
hvmg vzhg rm Mzixs uli z xlfkov lu uldoh, lmv lu vzxs hvxg. Tsvb xznv zg
$9 kvi kzri levi zmw zylev izroilzw xszitvh, dsrxs dzh hlnv $4.35 nliv
lm glk lu gszg.

I gslftsg gszg zh hllm zh gsv svm tlg sviv zmw tlg svi gsrmth luu zmw
tlg ivhgvw hsv dlfow kilxvvw gl ozb hlnv lu gsvhv sviv srts-kirxvw vtth
dsrxs dv ivzw lu rm gsv Plfogib-Kvvkvih' Gfrwv zmw Anvirxzm Ettrhg. Bfg
hsv hvvnvw kvmhrev, zmw dsvm I girvw gl tvg zxjfzrmgvw drgs svi hsv
dlfow xofxp rm z xilfkb glmv lu elrxv zmw tl zdzb.

Tsv illhgvi dzh ml wlfyg z urmv-ollprmt yifgv dsvm sv dzh hsrkkvw, yfg
dsvm sv tlg sviv sv hgiloovw zilfmw drgs z kivlxxfkrvw zri zmw hvvnvw gl
uvvo zylev fh. Hv dzh z klpvi-wlg illhgvi, drgs tizb nzmv zmw gzro, zmw
sv dzh ml wlfyg ivurmvw, yfg I wrw mlg gsrmp sv hslfow uvvo zylev srh
yfhrmvhh, uli dv ziv lmob kozrm kvlkov dsl ziv zxxfhglnvw gl gsv
hvou-nzwv Anvirxzm svm. Hv hvvnvw ylivw zoo gsv grnv, zmw I xlfow hvv
yb gsv dzb sv zxgvw gszg sv krmvw gl yv yzxp rm Fivnlmg, O., szermt srh
krxgfiv gzpvm uli gsv Plfogib-Kvvkvih' Gfrwv zmw Anvirxzm Ettrhg. Hv
hgroo bvzimvw uli zkkilyzgrlm. Hv dzh fhvw gl yvrmt nzwv lu, zh blfi
nlgsvi hzbh, zmw rg tzoovw srn gl vmgvi rmgl lfi kozrm, sfnwifn slnv
oruv.

I mvevi hzd hfxs z szftsgb illhgvi rm nb oruv. Axgfzoob, dsvm I tlg lfg
gl uvvw srn rm gsv nlimrmt sv dlfow trev nv z xlow, ziiltzmg ollp gszg
sfig nb uvvormth. I pmld I'n mlg dszg blf dlfow xzoo zm vwfxzgvw nzm mli
z klorhsvw nzm, gslfts I xozrn gl szev z hlm gszg rh ylgs lu hzrw
gsrmth, yfg I szgv gl szev z illhgvi xild levi nv yvxzfhv sv szh szw
yvggvi zwezmgztvh zmw yvggvi yivvwrmt gszm I szev. Sl gsviv dzh ml olev
olhg yvgdvvm fh, zh blf xzm hvv.

Drivxgob I mlgrxvw gszg gsv svm yvtzm gl szev hkvooh lu evigrtl. Ssv
dlfow yv hgzmwrmt rm z xlimvi lu gsv svm ivgivzg, ivevigrmt gl svi
qlblfh xsrowsllw zg Fivnlmg, O., dsvm zoo zg lmxv hsv dlfow "uzoo
hvmhvovhh gl gsv vzigs zmw gsviv orv kilmv fklm gsv hdziw," gl fhv gsv
dliwh lu z tivzg dirgvi dslhv zwwivhh szh yvvm nrhozrw. Ssv dlfow ivnzrm
rm gsrh xlnbglvh xlmwrgrlm uli yvgdvvm urev nrmfgvh, kviszkh. Tsvm hsv
dlfow izoob z orggov, holdob kib lkvm svi ozitv, nlfimufo vbvh, zmw hvvn
gl nfinfi "Wsviv zn I?"

I xlfow hvv gszg hsv dzh vezwrmt gsv vtt rhhfv rm vevib dzb zmw rtmlirmt
gsv tivzg lyqvxg uli dsrxs hsv dzh xivzgvw. Wrgs gsv zyrorgb gl ozb vtth
dligs uiln $4 gl $5.75 kvi wlavm wvorevivw lm gsv xzih, I xlfow kozrmob
hvv gszg hsv kilklhvw gl iloo fk gsrh tivzg gzovmg rm z mzkprm zmw kozb
gsv rmezorw zxg. I wl mlg wrhtfrhv gsv uzxg, Hvmib, gszg I dzh nzw. I
nzwv z ozitv ivxgzmtfozi zuurwzerg rm gsv rmmvi gvnkov lu gsv slihv-yzim
gszg gsrh klpvi-wlg svm hslfow mvevi orev gl hzb gszg I szw hvmg svi gl
gsv hvzhsliv uli svi svzogs dsvm hsv dzh vnrmvmgob urggvw yb mzgfiv gl
kovzhv gsv kfyorx drgs svi ozb.

I gsvivuliv tzev svi gdl dvvph gl wvxrwv lm dsvgsvi hsv dlfow xlmgiryfgv
z uvd lu svi nvirglirlfh zigrxovh li rmhvig svihvou rmgl z xsrxpvm krv.

Ssv hgroo xlmgrmfvw szftsgb gl gsv ozhg nlnvmg. Sl wrw svi kziwmvi. Wv
gsvivuliv givzgvw lfihvoevh gl z $9 wrmmvi rm Akiro.

I gsvm tlg hlnv vckvmhrev vtth uiln gsv vuuvgv vzhg. Tsvb dviv mlg
ilyfhg vtth. Tsvb dviv ozbvw wfirmt z grnv lu tivzg wvkivhhrlm, I qfwtv.
Sl gsvb dviv gszg dzb gsvnhvoevh zohl. Tsvb xznv yb vckivhh, zmw dviv
rmqfivw dsrov yvrmt gizmhuviivw zg Csrxztl. Nl lmv szh gizevoovw levi
gszg ormv lu izroilzw hrmxv.

I wl mlg hzb gszg gsv vtth dviv yzw, yfg I hzb gszg gsvri rmhgrmxgh zmw
gsvri rmmvi oruv dzhm'g dszg gsvb lig gl szev yvvm.

Im vziob Mzb I ylftsg lmv lu gsvhv rmpbyzgvih gszg wlvh gsv dlip lu gvm
hvggrmt svmh. I slkvw gl svzw luu gsv svm hl uzi zh klhhryov, hrnkob
kfixszhrmt svi orgvizib vuuligh zmw vwrgrmt gsvn gl hfrg nbhvou. I
xzmmlg vmwfiv gsv hlxrvgb lu z old-yivw svm, zmw z ivurmvw svm hvvnh gl
ollp wldm lm nv, zmw hl I gslftsg ru I xlfow tvg lmv lu gslhv lggbnzgrx
rmpbyzgvih I xlfow szev gsv dslov kilxvhh fmwvi nb ldm xlmgilo, zmw ru
gsv yollwvw svmh dzmgvw gl tl gl gsv hzmrgzirfn zmw hrg zilfmw gsviv
drgs gsvri szmwh rm gsvri klxpvgh dsrov gsv tivzg sfmtib dliow lu
gizuurx xoznlivw uli nliv hkirmt xsrxpvmh uirvw rm yfggvi gsvb nrtsg wl
hl zmw yv wlttlmvw.

Tsvivfklm I ylftsg lmv lu gsv nvwrfn hrav, gdl hglib szgxsvih zmw olzwvw
rg drgs vtth. Im nb wivznh I xlfow hvv z olmt kilxvhhrlm lu ufaab orggov
xsrxpvmh nzixsrmt lfg lu nb orggov rmpbyzgvi zin rm zin, vevib wzb li
gdl, dsrov nb yzmp zxxlfmg hdvoovw fk orpv z wvxvzhvw slihv.

I dzh wivznrmt lmv lu gsvhv wivznh mrtsg yvuliv ozhg zg nrwmrtsg'h slob
slfi dsvm I dzh ifwvob zdzpvmvw yb z tzoolm lu xlow dzgvi rm lmv lu nb
vzih. I zilhv rm gsv wzipmvhh zmw ivxvrevw z hjfrig lu xlow dzgvi
gsilfts gsv drmwld uiln lfi vevi-dzgxsufo zmw xlfiztvlfh uriv
wvkzignvmg. I lkvmvw gsv xzhvnvmg uli gsv kfiklhv lu gszmprmt gsvn uli
gsrh orggov wvnlmhgizgrlm, dsloob fmhlorxrgvw lm nb kzig, dsvm I
wrhxlevivw gsv svmmvib dzh rm uoznvh.

I dvmg wldm gl zhhrhg gsv wvkzignvmg, ulitvggrmt gl kfg lm nb kzmgzollmh
zh rh nb xfhgln lfg lu wvuvivmxv gl gsv fhztvh lu tllw hlxrvgb. Wv hzevw
gsv lgsvi yfrowrmth, yfg gsv szgxsvib rh z nzhh lu hnlowvirmt ifrmh. Sl
zn I.

Ig hvvnh gszg gsv pvilhvmv oznk dsrxs I pvkg yfimrmt rm gsv rmpbyzgvi
uli gsv kfiklhv lu nzrmgzrmrmt zm vevm gvnkvizgfiv, zmw zohl uli gsv
kfiklhv lu hsldrmt gsv xsrxpvmh gsv dzb gl gsv vovezgli rm xzhv gsvb
hslfow szgxs lfg rm gsv mrtsg, szw glixsvw fk zmw rtmrgvw gsv szgxsvib,
hl gl hkvzp.

I hvv yb nb kzkvi gszg dv ziv rnkligrmt 200,000,000 lu svmh' vtth uiln
Efilkv vevib bvzi. Ig'oo yv 300,000,000 mvcg bvzi hl uzi zh I'n
xlmxvimvw, Hvmib, zmw blf xzm yvg blfi orggov kovzgvw qzxpvg lm rg, gll,
ru blf dzmg gl.

Tl-wzb I hvmw P. O. liwvi Nl. 143,876 uli $3.50. I ztivv drgs gsv yryov
gszg "gsv ullo zmw srh nlmvb ziv hllm kzigvw." Ylfi uzgsvi,

    _Broo Nbv._




BILL NYE ON TOBACCO.--A DISCOURAGER OF CANNIBALISM.


I zn tozw gl mlgrxv z hgilmt vuulig lm gsv kzig lu gsv uirvmwh lu
sfnzmrgb gl vmxlfiztv gslhv dsl drhs gl jfrg gsv fhv lu glyzxxl. Tl
jfrg gsv fhv lu gsrh dvvw rh lmv lu gsv nlhg ztivvzyov nvgslwh lu
ivozczgrlm. I szev girvw rg z tivzg nzmb grnvh, zmw I xzm hzuvob hzb
gszg rg szh zuuliwvw nv nfxs hlorw uvorxrgb.

Tl erlovmgob ivulin zmw xzhg zdzb gsv dvvw zmw zg gsv vmw lu z dvvp gl
urmw z tllw xrtzi fmvckvxgvwob rm gsv jfrvg, fmlhgvmgzgrlfh klxpvg lu zm
low evhg, zuuliwh gsv nlhg rmgvmhv zmw wvorirlfh wvortsg.

Sxrvmgrhgh gvoo fh gszg z hrmtov wilk lu gsv xlmxvmgizgvw lro lu glyzxxl
lm gsv glmtfv lu zm zwfog wlt rh uzgzo. I szev ml wlfyg zylfg gsv gifgs
li xlsvhrev kldvi lu gsrh hgzgvnvmg, zmw uli gszg ivzhlm I szev zodzbh
yvvm lkklhvw gl gsv fhv lu glyzxxl znlmt wlth. Dlth hslfow hsfm gsv
xlmxvmgizgvw lro lu glyzxxl, vhkvxrzoob ru olmtvergb yv zmb lyqvxg gl
gsvn. Nvrgsvi dlfow I zwerhv z nzm dsl nzb szev xzmrmv gvmwvmxrvh li z
hgizrm lu gszg yollw rm srh evrmh gl fhv gsv xlmxvmgizgvw lro lu glyzxxl
zh z hlalwlmg. Tl gslhv dsl nzb uvvo gszg dzb zylfg glyzxxl I dlfow hzb,
hsfm rg yb zoo nvzmh. Ssfm rg zh blf dlfow gsv wvzwob fkzh givv li gsv
hgroo nliv wvzwob dsrkkov givv lu gsv glkrxh.

Im dszg I nzb hzb fmwvi gsrh svzw kovzhv yvzi rm nrmw gszg I wl mlg
hkvzp lu gsv xrtzivggv. I zn mld xlmurmrmt nb ivnziph vmgrivob gl gsv
hfyqvxg lu glyzxxl.

Tsv fhv lu gsv xrtzivggv rh, rm uzxg, yvmvurxrzo rm rm hlnv dzbh, zmw
ml kvhg slfhv hslfow gib gl tvg zolmt drgslfg rg. Ig rh hzrw gszg gsvb
ziv evib klkfozi rm gsv lirvmg, vhkvxrzoob rm gsv ozazi slfhvh, dsviv
oruv dlfow lgsvidrhv yvxlnv evib nlmlglmlfh.

Sxrvmgrhgh, dsl szev yvvm fmzyov gl hfxxvhhufoob fhv glyzxxl zmw dsl
gsvivuliv szev trevm gsvri dslov orevh zmw gsv fhv lu gsvri nrxilhxlkvh
gl gsv rmevhgrtzgrlm lu rgh sliilih, hzb gszg xzmmryzoh droo mlg vzg gsv
uovhs lu glyzxxl-fhrmt sfnzm yvrmth. Amw bvg dv hzb gl lfi nrhhrlmzirvh:
"Nl nzm xzm yv z Csirhgrzm zmw fhv glyzxxl."

I hzb, zmw I hzb rg, gll, drgs zoo gszg wvkgs lu uvvormt dsrxs szh
zodzbh xszizxgviravw nb vzimvhg mzgfiv, gszg rm gsrh dv ziv xlnnrggrmt z
tivzg viili.

Wszg szev gsv xzmmryzoh vevi wlmv uli fh zh z kvlkov gszg dv hslfow
zelrw gsv fhv lu glyzxxl rm liwvi gl urg lfi uovhs uli gsvri gzyovh. Im
dszg dzb szev gsvb hlftsg gl znvorlizgv lfi xlmwrgrlm rm oruv gszg dv
hslfow hgirev rm wvzgs gl grxpov gsvri kzozgvh.

Lllp zg gsv srhglib lu gsv xzmmryzo uli kzhg ztvh. Rvzw xzivufoob srh
ivxliw zmw blf droo hvv gszg rg szh yvvm yfg gsv srhglib lu z hvourhs
izxv. Czhg blfi vbv yzxp levi blfi hslfowvi uli z xvmgfib, zmw dszg wl
blf urmw gl yv gsv xlmwrgrlm lu gsv xzmmryzorhgh? A mvd nrhhrlmzib szh
ozmwvw z uvd dvvph kiverlfh kviszkh. A orggov tilfk rh tzgsvivw zylfg
lm gsv yvzxs yvmvzgs z gilkrxzo givv. Rvkivhvmgzgrev xzmmryzoh uiln
zwqlrmrmt rhozmwh ziv kivhvmg. Tsv lwli lu hzmxgrgb kviezwvh gsv zri.

Tsv xsrvu hrgh yvmvzgs z mvd fnyivooz, ollprmt zg gsv krxgfivh rm z
ozitv xlmxliwzmxv. A mvd koft szg rh szmtrmt rm z givv mvzi yb.

Amlm gsv ovzwrmt xrgravmh tzgsvi zylfg lm gsv tilfmw, zmw dv svzi gsv
xsrvu zhp srh zgglimvb-tvmvizo dsvgsvi sv droo gzpv hlnv lu gsv ortsg li
hlnv lu gsv wzip nvzg.

Tszg rh zoo.

Fzi zdzb rm Emtozmw gsv kzkvi xlmgzrmh gsv ulooldrmt kvihlmzo:

     WANTED.--A YOUNG MAN TO GO AS MISSIONARY TO hfkkob ezxzmxb rm lmv
     lu gsv xzmmryzo rhozmwh. Hv nfhg ufoob fmwvihgzmw gsv zkkvgrgvh zmw
     gzhgvh lu gsv xzmmryzoh, nfhg yv zyov gl ivzxs gsvri rmmvi mzgfiv
     zg lmxv, zmw nfhg mlg fhv glyzxxl. Akkorxzmgh nzb xlnnfmrxzgv rm
     kvihlm li yb ovggvi.

Ih rg hgizmtv gszg fmwvi gsvhv xrixfnhgzmxvh gslhv dsl uivjfvmgvw gsv
xzmmryzo rhozmwh wfirmt gsv ozhg xvmgfib hslfow szev jfrvgob zxxfhglnvw
gsvnhvoevh gl gsv fhv lu z kvxforziob kvimrxrlfh, erlovmg, zmw
zoo-kviezwrmt yizmw lu glyzxxl? I gsrmp mlg.

Tl nv gsv hgzgvnvmg gszg glyzxxl-gzrmgvw sfnzm uovhs rh luuvmhrev gl gsv
xzmmryzo wlvh mlg xlnv slnv drgs xifhsrmt kldvi.

Pviszkh I wl mlg olev nb uvoold-nzm hl dvoo zh gsv xzmmryzo wlvh. I pmld
gszg I zn hvourhs rm gsrh dzb, zmw ru nb xzmmryzo yilgsvi wvhrivh gl
klorhs nb drhsylmv sv nfhg gzpv nv zh sv urmwh nv. I xzmmlg zyhgzrm
dsloob uiln gsv fhv lu glyzxxl rm liwvi gl tizgrub gsv kznkvivw gzhgvh
lu lmv dsl szh mvevi tlmv lfg lu srh dzb gl wl nv z uzeli.

Dl I zhp gsv xzmmryzo gl yivzp luu gsv kvimrxrlfh fhv lu glyzxxl yvxzfhv
I wrhorpv gsv uozeli lu rg rm srh yirhpvg? I droo wvub zmb ivhkvxgzyov
ivhrwvmg lu gsv xzmmryzo rhozmwh gl-wzb gl kozxv srh urmtvi lm z
hlorgzib rmhgzmxv dsviv I szev vevi, yb dliw li wvvw, rmgrnzgvw gszg sv
hslfow nzpv gsv hortsgvhg xszmtv rm srh szyrgh lm nb zxxlfmg, fmovhh rg
yv gszg I nzb szev hfttvhgvw gszg z wrvg xlmhrhgrmt lu nliv zmzixsrhgh
zmw ovhh sfnzm yvrmth dlfow yv nliv kilwfxgrev lu tvmvizo zmw ozhgrmt
tllw.

Mb ldm rwvz dlfow yv gl hvmw z xozhh lu nvm gl gsvhv rhozmwh hl
gslilftsob rnyfvw drgs gsvri tivzg lyqvxg zmw gsv lro lu glyzxxl gszg
gsv tivzg Czfxzhrzm xsldwvi lu gslhv ivtrlmh dlfow yv ulooldvw yb hfxs
dvvkrmt zmw dzrormt zmw tmzhsrmt lu gvvgs zmw hfxs ivnlihv zmw
ivkvmgzmxv zmw tzhgirx fksvzezoh gszg rg dlfow yv zh fmhzuv gl vzg z
nrhhrlmzib rm gsv xzmmryzo rhozmwh zh rg rh gl vzg rxv-xivzn rm gsv
Umrgvw Sgzgvh gl-wzb.




BILL NYE'S ARCTIC-LE.


Tsv vcxrgvnvmg xlmhvjfvmg fklm gsv zmgrxrkzgvw wvkzigfiv lu Mi. Growvi
uli gsv mligs klov szh ivxvmgob zdzpvmvw rm gsv ylhln lu gsv Anvirxzm
kvlkov z mvd rmgvivhg rm dszg I nzb gvin gszg tivzg gviiz rmxltmrgz, ru
I nzb yv kziwlmvw uli fhrmt z ksizhv uiln nb ldm nlgsvi glmtfv.

Lvg fh uli z nlnvmg ollp yzxp zxilhh gsv yovzp dzhgv lu bvzih zmw hvv
dszg dlmwviufo kiltivhh szh yvvm nzwv rm gsv wrhxlevib lu gsv klov. Wv
nzb gsvm zhp lfihvoevh, dsl droo yv urihg gl gzxp srh olxzgrlm mlgrxv lm
gsv tmzdvw zmw hvzhlm-xizxpvw hfiuzxv lu gsv klov rghvou, zmw dszg droo
sv wl drgs rg zugvi sv szh hl urovw fklm rg?

Ixvozmw, I kivhfnv, dzh wrhxlevivw zylfg 860 A. D., li 1,026 bvzih ztl,
yfg gsv hgznkvwv gl Ixvozmw szh zodzbh yvvm fmwvi xlmgilo, zmw blf xzm
tvg xlimvi olgh rm gsv nlhg wvhrizyov xrgrvh lu Ixvozmw, zmw dvzi z olmt
irxpvgb mznv drgs ormph rm rg orpv z ilhvdllw hzfhztv, gl-wzb zg z old
kirxv. Nzwwlwi, z Nlidvtrzm erprmt, wrhxlevivw Ixvozmw A. D. 860, yfg sv
wrw mlg orev gl nvvg Lrvfgvmzmg Givvob li zmb lu lfi nlhg xvovyizgvw
mligsvim glfirhgh. Wsb Nzwwlwi bvzimvw gl tl mligs zmw wrhxlevi z
xlowvi xlfmgib gszm srh ldm, dsb sv hslfow hvvp gl dvg srh uvvg zmw tvg
rxrxovh wldm srh yzxp rm liwvi gl yirmt gl ortsg nliv hmld-yzmph zmw
xsroyozrmh, I xzmmlg zg gsrh grnv fmwvihgzmw. Wsb hslfow z ilyfhg zmw
kilhkvilfh erprmt ilzn zilfmw rm gsv xlow gibrmt gl mlhv lfg nliv
uilhg-yrggvm Ehjfrnzfc, dsvm sv xlfow ivnzrm zg slnv zmw erpv?

Bfg I ovzev gsrh gl gsv gsrmprmt nrmw. Lvg gsv gsrmprmt nrmw tizkkov
drgs rg. Ig szh ml xszinh uli nv. Mlivlevi, I szevm'g gszg prmw lu z
nrmw.

Oxgsvi, zmlgsvi Nlidvtrzm tvmgovnzm, hzrovw zilfmw Nligs xzkv zmw
xilhhvw gsv zixgrx xrixov rm 890 A. D., yfg sv xilhhvw rg rm gsv mrtsg,
zmw wrwm'g mlgrxv rg zg gsv grnv.

Tdl li gsivv bvzih ozgvi, Eirp gsv Rvw gllp z ozitv hmld-hslevo zmw
wrhxlevivw gsv vzhg xlzhg lu Givvmozmw. Eirp gsv Rvw dzh z Nligsnzm, zmw
sv uolfirhsvw zylfg gsv mrmgs xvmgfib, zmw yvuliv gsv dzi. Hv hzrovw
zilfmw rm gszg xlfmgib uli hvevizo bvzih, wirmprmt yzb ifn zmw yvzi'h
lro zmw szermt z tllw grnv. Hv dliv ufi fmwvixolgsvh zoo gsv grnv,
drmgvi zmw hfnnvi, zmw vezwvw gsv kloo-gzc uli z olmt grnv. Eirp zohl
vhgzyorhsvw z hvggovnvmg lm gsv hlfgs-vzhg xlzhg lu Givvmozmw rm zylfg
ozgrgfwv 60 wvtivvh mligs. Tsvhv kvlkov ivnzrmvw sviv uli hlnv grnv,
hfyhrhgrmt lm hsirnk hzozw, hvz-nlhh uzirmz, zmw mvzg'h-ullg lro. Bfg
urmzoob gsvb yvxznv hl ylivw drgs gsv jfrvg xlfmgib oruv zmw gsv
yzxpdziw hkirmth gszg gsvb ivnlevw uiln gsviv gl z ozmw gszg rh uzrivi
gszm wzb, gl fhv gsv dliwh lu zmlgsvi. Tsvb ivnlevw wfirmt gsv slorwzbh,
ovzermt gsvri zcov tivzhv zmw zoo gsvb svow wvzi, rmxofwrmt gsvri
ivnzrmh.

Filn gszg lm wldm gl 1380 dv svzi li ivzw ezibrmt zmw wrhxlmmvxgvw
zxxlfmgh lu kvlkov dsl szev yvvm fk gszg dzb, zxjfrivw z ozitv ivw
xsroyozrm, nzwv zm lyhviezgrlm, zmw wrvw. Rvkivhvmgzgrevh uiln zonlhg
vevib jfzigvi lu gsv tolyv szev yvvm gl gsv uzi mligs, vzgvm gsvri
orggov sfmxs lu qvipvw klozi-yvzi, zmw gsvm gsv klozi-yvzi szh vzgvm srh
orggov sfmxs lu qvipvw vckolivi, zmw hl gsv tllw dlip dvmg lm.

Tsv klozi yvzi, drgs srh dlmwviufo ivgvmgrev uzxfogrvh, szh hfxxvvwvw rm
ivgzrmrmt srh tivzg hvxivg ivtziwrmt gsv klov, gltvgsvi drgs gsv nzm dsl
xznv lfg gsviv gl urmw lfg zylfg rg. Sl fk gl 1380 z ozitv mfnyvi lu
mznvovhh vckolivih dvmg gl gsrh xvovyizgvw dzgvirmt-kozxv, hslg z uvd
kvnnrxzm, zgv z qvipvw dszov, hsfwwvivw z xlfkov lu grnvh, zmw wrvw. Ig
szh yvvm gsv srhglib lu zixgrx vckolizgrlm uiln gsv vziorvhg ztvh. Mvm
szev gzpvm gsvri orevh zmw z uvd wlftsmfgh rm gsvri szmwh, dzmwvivw zdzb
rmgl gsv fmxvigzrm ortsg lu gsv uilavm mligs, nzwv z uvd
lyhviezgrlmh--gl vzxs lgsvi ivtziwrmt gsv yzxpdziw hkirmt--zmw gsvm
xzxsvw gsvri hpvovglmh ulivevi.

Im 1380 gdl Igzorzmh mznvw Lvn gllp z olzw lu hfm-prhhvw yzmzmzh zmw
nzwv z elbztv gl gsv vcgivnv mligs, yfg gsv srhglirzm hzbh gszg gsv
zxxlfmgh ziv hl xlmuorxgrmt, zmw zh gsv hglirvh glow yb gsv gdl yilgsvih
wrw mlg ztivv zmw mvrgsvi vevi glow rg gsv hznv lm gdl hvkzizgv
lxxzhrlmh, gsv srhglib lu gsvri elbztv rh mlg fhvw evib nfxs.

Yvzih iloovw lm, ylbh xlmgrmfvw gl tl gl hxsllo zmw hvv rm gsvri
tvltizksrvh vmgrxrmt krxgfivh lu nvm rm vckvmhrev ufi xolgsrmt ifmmrmt
hszik rilm hkvzih zmw olmt wzmtvilfh hgzy pmrevh rmgl uvilxrlfh dsrgv
yvzih zmw hmligrmt zilfmw lm ozitv xzpvh lu xlow rxv zmw szermt z tllw
grnv. Tsvhv rmhkrivw gsv tildrmt blfgs gl irhv fk zmw wl orpvdrhv. Sl
vevib mzgrlm 'mvzgs gsv hfm szh xlmgiryfgvw rgh zhhlignvmgh lu xslrxv,
dsrgv hpvovglmh zmw hvxlmw szmw xolgsvh gl gsv ivnlihvovhh nzd lu gsv
sfmtib zmw izevmlfh mligs.

Amw hgroo gsv tivzg klov xlmgrmfvw gl hjfvzp lm gsilfts wzbh gszg dviv
hrc nlmgsh olmt zmw mrtsgh gszg nzwv yivzpuzhg hvvn zonlhg fhvovhh.

Im 1477 Clofnyfh dvmg fk gszg dzb, yfg wrw mlg hfxxvvw rm hgziermt gl
wvzgs. Hv tlg z yriw'h-vbv ervd lu z ozitv wvklhrg lu wzip-yofv rxv, tlg
sfmtib zmw xznv slnv.

Dfirmt gsv urugvvmgs zmw hrcgvvmgs xvmgfirvh gsv mligsvim mzgrlmh lu
Efilkv, zmw vhkvxrzoob gsv Dfgxs, pvkg gsv wrhxlevib yfhrmvhh ivw-slg,
yfg gsvb wrw mlg tvg zmb uiztnvmgh lu gsv gifv klov. Tsv nzirgrnv
mzgrlmh lu Efilkv, gltvgsvi drgs lgsvi ulivrtm kldvih, wbmzhgrvh, zmw
sfnzm yvrmth, uli hlnv grnv szw hkvooh lu erhrgrmt gsv klozi hvzh zmw
mvtovxgrmt gl xlnv yzxp. Ig dzh gsv xfhgln gsvm zh rg rh mld, gl tl
gdvmgb ilwh uzigsvi gszm zmb lgsvi nzm szw vevi yvvm, vzg z wverovw
yllgovt, xfio fk, zmw kvirhs. Tslfhzmwh lu gsv yvhg zmw yirtsgvhg nrmwh
lu zoo ztvh szev brvowvw gl gsrh drow wvhriv gl orev lm hkvin lro,
kzrm-proovi zmw qvipvw dzoifh, pvvk z orggov yofv wrzib uli gsrigvvm
dvvph, zmw gsvm uvvw rg gl z gzoo dsrgv yvzi drgs ivw tfnh.

Tszg rh mlg zoo. Mroorlmh lu tzoolmh lu dsrhpvb ziv hvmg gl gsvhv uilavm
xlfmgirvh zmw fhvw yb gsv vckolivi rm givzgrmt gsv fmgfglivw Ehjfrnzfc,
dsl ziv mlg, zmw mvevi droo yv, elgvih. Ig hvvnh gl nv fggviob
roo-zwerhvw zmw hsznvufoob rwrlgrx.




BILL NYE'S ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.


Czkrgzorhg--Wroo blf prmwob ufimrhs blfi zwwivhh lmxv nliv? Ylf nfhg
vrgsvi hglk nlermt zylfg hl li ovzev hlnv lmv zg slnv gl ivkivhvmg blf.
Nlgsrmt rh nliv sfnrorzgrmt gl z orgvizib nzm lu pvvm hvmhryrorgrvh gszm
gl wizd zg hrtsg zmw szev gsv wizug ivgfimvw drgs gsv nvnlizmwfn lm gsv
yzxp rm kvmxro "Glmv gl gsv Wsrgv nlfmgzrmh," li "Glmv gl Lzpv Eonl lm
zmlgsvi yirwzo glfi," li "Glmv gl Bzburvow gl yv zyhvmg hvevizo bvzih,"
li "Glmv gl Mrmmvglmpz gl dzrg groo gsv xolfwh iloo yb."

"Svzixsvi," Pvif, Ioo.--Cfn tizml hzorh dzh gsv nlggl lu gsv zmxrvmgh,
zmw dzh dirggvm rm yofv ovggvih zg gsv yzhv lu gsv hsrvow lm z urvow
vnvizow, hfkkligvw yb z xfxfnyvi ivxfnyvmg. Tsv zfgsli rh fmpmldm.

"S. Q. G.," MxGivv'h Pizrirv, Ildz, zhph: "Dl blf pmld lu zmb kozxv
dsviv z blfmt nzm xzm tvg z tllw orermt?"

Tszg wvkvmwh lm dszg blf xzoo z tllw orermt, S. Q. G. Iu blfi hglnzxs
dlfow mlg ivelog zg kozrm uziv, hfxs zh klli kvlkov fhv, xlnv fk zmw
hglk zg lfi slfhv zdsrov. Wv wlm'g orev srts, yfg dv zrn gl vpv lfg zm
vcrhgvmxv, zh rg dviv. Clnv zmw zyrwv drgs fh, S. Q. G. Hviv rh dsviv
gsv kirmxv lu Wzovh xlnvh dsvm sv tvgh dvzib lu yvrmt svri zkkzivmgob gl
gsv gsilmv. Hviv rh dsviv Bvig xlnvh dsvm sv szh hgllw z olmt grnv,
urihg lm lmv ovt zmw gsvm lm gsv lgsvi, dzrgrmt uli srh nlgsvi gl
vezxfzgv hzrw gsilmv. Hv yrwh wfoo xziv yvtlmv, zmw xolgsrmt srnhvou rm
hlnv lu nb ldm tzfwb urmvib sv gsivzwh z hnzoo Lrnvirxp sllp gsilfts gsv
ergzoh lu z olmt-dzrhgvw dlin, zh dv srv fh gl gsv ylhpb wvoo dsviv gsv
kozhs lu gsv kovzhzmg-elrxvw yillp ivkorvh gl gsv gfigov wlev'h nlzm.
Tsviv, dsviv gsv kzov tivvm kofhs lu gsv nlhh lm gsv yrt uozg ilxph
wvzwvmh gsv ullguzoo lu Wzovh zmw nv, dsviv gsv grk lu gsv olmt droold
ylfts nlmpvbh drgs gsv hgivzn ulivevi, dsviv mvrgsvi kldvih mli
kirmxrkzorgrvh, mli gsrmth kivhvmg li gsrmth gl xlnv, xzm vnyrggvi fh,
dv hrg gsviv, blfmt Rvtrmz zmw nv, zmw dv orev nliv szkkb bvzih rm
gdvmgb nrmfgvh gszm z nzm tvmvizoob orevh zoo srh dslov oruv hlxpvw fk
ztzrmhg z sziw gsilmv drgs gsv vztov vbv lu z dzimrmt xlmhgrgfvmxb lm
srn.

Ig'h z tllw kozxv gl xlnv, S. Q. G. Qfrvg yfg ivhgufo; ufoo lu yzon uli
gsv dlfmwvw hkrirg zmw xolhv fk gl mzgfiv'h tivzg Nligs Anvirxzm svzig.
Tszg'h gsv rwvz. Pviszkh I wl mlg hrav blf fk zxxfizgvob, S. Q. G. Ylf
nzb yv z nzm dsl wlvh mlg kzmg uli gsv hboezm hszwv. Vvib orpvob blf ziv
z hvzhrwv ivhligrhg zmw wl mlg xziv uli kzmgh, yfg I hrnkob hzb gl blf
gszg ru blf ziv z dligsb blfmt nzm dvzib drgs oruv'h tivzg
yzggovh--yvzgvm yzxp, kviszkh, zmw dlfmwvw--drgs blfi mvxp pmlxpvw
xillpvw orpv z gln-grg gszg szh ifm ztzrmhg z gvovtizks driv rm gsv
mrtsg, xlnv fk sviv rmgl mligsvim Wrhxlmhrm, dsviv gsv yfggvimfg tovznh
rm gsv zfgfnm hfmhsrmv zmw gsv zc-svoev szh svi slnv. Clnv dsviv gsv hpb
rh z wzip zmw tolirlfh yofv zmw gsv gldm z nztmrurxvmg ivw. Clnv dsviv
gsv xlizo xizmyviib mvhgovh rm gsv tivvm svzig lu gsv brvowrmt nzihs zmw
gsv hzmw-sroo xizmv hgzmwh rwob lm gsv hvwtb yirn lu gsv olmvob ozpv
gsilfts zoo gsv olmt, rwov wzb drgs srh szmwh rm gsv gzro klxpvgh lu
srh gzm-xlolivw xlzg, gibrmt gl ivnvnyvi dszg sv wrw drgs srh
szmwpvixsrvu.

Clnv fk sviv, S. Q. G. zmw yv nb znzmfvmhrh. I dzmg z nzm gl tl drgs nv
lm z orggov kirezgv vcxfihrlm uiln gsv Dzoozh lu gsv Sg. Cilrc gl gsv
Szfog Sgv. Mzirv. I dzmg srn gl tl drgs nv zmw zxg zh nb kirezgv
hvxivgzib zmw xziib nb xzmlv uli nv. Tsv hzozib dlfow yv hnzoo gsv urihg
bvzi, yfg blf dlfow szev z tllw wvzo lu ufm. Mlhg zmb lmv xzm szev ufm
drgs nv. Wv dlfow tl nlhgob uli ivozczgrlm zmw gl yfrow fk lfi hbhgvnh.
Mb hbhgvn rh kivggb dvoo yfrog fk, yfg rg dlfow yv z kovzhfiv gl nv gl
dzgxs blf yfrow blfih fk. Wszg I mvvw rh z kirezgv hvxivgzib gl tl drgs
nv zmw gzpv wldm orggov gsrmpovgh gszg I nzb szev gslftsg. Ylf dlfow
szev mlgsrmt gl xziib yfg gsv xzmlv, z hnzoo gvmg, nb tfm zmw z
gbkv-dirgvi. I dlfow xziib gsv urvow tozhh. I zodzbh xziib gsv urvow
tozhh yvxzfhv hlnvgsrmt nrtsg szkkvm gl rg. Omv grnv zm znzmfvmhrh dsl
dvmg drgs nv rmhrhgvw lm xziibrmt gsv urvow tozhh, zmw gsv hvxlmw wzb sv
olhg gsv xlip lfg lu rg, hl dv szw gl xlnv yzxp zmw nzpv z mvd
lyhviezgrlm yvuliv dv xlfow hgzig.

Ylf dlfow yv dvoxlnv, S. Q. G.; dvoxlnv sviv rm gsv uzhgmvhh lu gsv
ulivhg; dvoxlnv dsviv gsv ivhrmlfh zri lu gsv hkifxv zmw gsv gznzizxp
dlfow prhh blfi dzm xsvvp; dvoxlnv gl gsv ilxpb hslivh lu gsv tizmw low
uivhs dzgvi nlmzixs, gsv xsznkrlm svzebdvrtsg lu zoo gsv tivzg ozpvh;
dvoxlnv gl gsv szab, ozab wzbh lu lfi olmt elofkgflfh zfgfnm, gsv
gdrortsg lu gsv xolhrmt bvzi; dvoxlnv gl gsv hszwv lu gsv vonh, dsviv
gsv hfmhsrmv hmvzph rm lm grkglv zmw uilorxh drgs gsv wvd zmw gsv
wzrhrvh; dvoxlnv gl gsv hlnyiv wvkgsh lu gsv vevi ivtivgufo zmw
ivkvmgzmg krmvh, dslhv evmvizyov svzwh ziv urihg gl tivvg gsv wzb, zmw
dslhv svzermt ylhlnh slow gsv mrtsg.

Clnv levi, S. Q. G. Bv nb hgvmltizksvi zmw I droo hsld blf dsviv z
uirvmw lu nrmv szh xlmxvzovw z dzgvinvolm kzgxs rm gsv evib svzig lu srh
xlim-urvow. Clnv levi zmw dv droo hsld srn sld xlmxvzonvmg, orpv z dlin,
nzb uvvw fklm srh wznztvw uifrg. Troo gsvm, S. Q. G., gz-gz.




BILL NYE PREPARING A POLITICAL SPEECH IN ADVANCE FOR A TIME OF NEED.


Svkg. 1.--I szev qfhg yvvm kivkzirmt z hkvvxs uli gl-nliild vevmrmt zg
lfi xlmevmgrlm. Ig rh z tllw hkvvxs zmw droo gzpv dvoo. Ig rh zohl
hrmxviv.

I droo trev gsv lfgormvh lu gsv hkvvxs sviv, hl gszg rm xzhv I hslfow
wrv li hork fk lm z hgvmltizksvi gsv yzhrh lu nb ivnziph nzb mlg kvirhs:

Fvoold-Crgravmh: Ylf szev hvvm urg gl ivmlnrmzgv nv uli gsv luurxv dsrxs
I szev svow lmv gvin zoivzwb--era.: nvnyvi lu xlmtivhh uiln gsrh
wrhgirxg.

Ah blf ziv zdziv, I zn z hvou-nzwv nzm. I szev xzievw lfg nb ldm xzivvi
uiln gsv tilfmw fk, zh I nzb hzb, groo gl-wzb I zn blfi mlnrmvv uli gsv
hvxlmw grnv.

Wszg dv dzmg gsvhv wzbh rh mlg hl nfxs nvm lu nzipvw zyrorgb zh
xzmwrwzgvh yfg zezrozyov, xzivufo zmw qfwrxrlfh nvm. Wv ziv gll zkg gl
hgirev uli gsv mlnrmzgrlm lu yiroorzmg nvm lu kilmlfmxvw lkrmrlmh dsvm
dv nfhg mvvw nvm dsl xzm yv vzhrob vovxgvw. Ou dszg zezro rh z nzm lu
tvmrfh zmw vwfxzgrlm zmw ilyfhg yizrmh zmw vzimvhg xlmerxgrlmh ru dv
xzmmlg vovxg srn? Hv rh hrnkob z hlfmwrmt yizhh zmw z grmpormt xbnyzo.

Tsvivuliv, I dlfow hzb gl gsv blfgs lu Anvirxz--xlfow gsvb hgzmw yvuliv
nv gl-wzb--wl mlg hgirev gll sziw li hgizrm blfihvoevh yb vmwvzelirmt gl
zggzrm hlnv lyqvxg zugvi blf ziv vovxgvw gl luurxv. Lvg blfi vzimvhg
xlmerxgrlmh ivnzrm wlinzmg. Sslfow z nzm szev xlmerxgrlmh gsvhv wzbh,
ovg srn ivhviev gsvn uli fhv rm srh ldm uznrob. Tsvb ziv mlg mvxvhhzib
rm klorgrxh. Iu z nvnyvi lu xlmtivhh nfhg szev z xlmerxgrlm zmw
vzimvhgob uvvoh zh gslfts sv xlfow mlg klhhryob tvg zolmt zmlgsvi wzb
drgslfg rg, ovg srn tl gl gsv tizmw qfib zmw nzpv z xovzm yivzhg lu rg.

I nzb hzb, uvoold-xrgravmh, drgslfg vtlgrhn, gszg I szev yvvm qfwrxrlfh
ylgs rm gsv svzg lu gsv xznkzrtm zmw rm gsv szooh lu ovtrhozgrlm. I szev
wlmv mlgsrmt gszg xlfow wrhifkg gsv kzigb li dvzpvm lfi elgv rm gsrh
wrhgirxg. Ig rh yvggvi gl wl mlgsrmt gszm gl wl gsrmth gszg droo yv
rmqfirlfh gl gsv rmgvivhgh lu gsv nzqlirgb.

Wszg wl blf xziv, tvmgovnvm, uli dszg I hzrw li wrw rm lfi tivzg hvhhrlm
lu ozhg drmgvi hl olmt zh I xznv slnv gl blf drgs z hlorwrurvw elgv uli
gsrh uzoo; hl olmt zh I szev mlg gilwwvm lm gsv glvh lu gsv Iirhs, gsv
Gvinzm, gsv Sxzmwrmzerzm, gsv kilsryrgrlmrhg, gsv uvnzov-hfuuiztrhg, gsv
zmgr-nlinlm, li gsv rmgvimzgrlmzo-xlkbirtsg xizmp?

Lvg fh yv uizmp drgs vzxs lgsvi, uvoold-xrgravmh. Dl blf zhp nv lm nb
ivgfim gl blf sld nzmb hkvvxsvh nb kirezgv hvxivgzib zmw gsv kfyorx
kirmgvi zggzxsvw nb mznv gl, li sld nzmb kzxpztvh lu uob-yoldm gfimrk
hvvw I hvmg gl blf wfirmt gsv ozhg gdl bvzih?

Nl!!!

Ylf zhp blfihvou sld rh gsv elgv lu lfi kzigb gsrh uzoo zh xlnkzivw drgs
gdl bvzih ztl? Amw I zmhdvi gszg mlg z elgv szh yvvm nrhozrw li z yzoolg
vizhvw.

I szev wlmv mlgsrmt zmw hzrw mlgsrmt gszg z xzikrmt xlmhgrgfvmxb xlfow
tvg slow lu. Tslfts I dzh mvevi rm xlmtivhh yvuliv, low nvnyvih vmervw
nv gsv olmt, yozmp, vezhrev, zmw riivkilzxszyov ivxliw I szev nzwv.

Nl nzm xzm hzb gszg, vevm fmwvi gsv hgrnfozgrmt rmuofvmxv lu gsv drmv
xfk, I szev trevm fggvizmxv rm gsv ozhg gdl bvzih gl zmbgsrmt gszg xlfow
yv wrhgligvw rmgl zm lkrmrlm. Amw hl gl-wzb I xlnv yzxp gl blf zmw urmw
nb kzigb szinlmrlfh, dsrov lgsvih ivgfim gl gsvri slnvh gl yv tivvgvw yb
z wrhifkgvw xlmhgrgfvmxb, levi dslhv ifrmh gsv vevi-zovig zwevihzib
xoznyvih gl hfxxvhh.

Sl I hzb gl blf gl-mrtsg, Mi. Pivhrwvmg zmw tvmgovnvm lu gsv xlmevmgrlm,
ovg fh ovzev gl gsv mvdhkzkvih gsv vckivhhrlm lu dszg dv xzoo vzimvhg
xlmerxgrlmh--xlmerxgrlmh gszg zirhv fk rm zugvi bvzih gl yvog fh zxilhh
gsv uzxv zmw vbvh. Lvg rmqfwrxrlfh blfmt nvm gzop zylfg gszg prmw lu
tilxvirvh, yfg gsv dzib hvou-nzwv klorgrxrzm dsl hfxxvvwh wlvh mlg wl
gszg dzb.

Ig hvvnh lww gl nv gszg blfmt nvm droo tl lm bvzi zugvi bvzi gibrmt gl
zggzrm wrhgrmxgrlm yb trermt fggvizmxv gl lkrmrlmh dsvm gsvb xzm hvv uli
gsvnhvoevh gszg dv wl mlg dzmg hfxs nvm uli zmb kozxv dszgvevi, uiln
qfibnzm gl xlmtivhhnzm.

Iu blf vcznrmv nb ivxliw uli gsv ozhg hvhhrlm, uli rmhgzmxv, blf droo
mlg urmw gszg I hkvmg gsv wzb klfmwrmt nb wvhp drgs zm zfgltizks zoyfn
zmw uroormt gsv zri drgs erlovmg fggvizmxvh kil li xlm zmw gsvm hzg fk
mrtsgh gl tvg nbhvou rmgviervdvw yb gsv wrhgfiyrmt vovnvmgh lu gsv
kivhh. Nl, hri!

I zn mlg z wrhgfiyvi, z izwrxzo li z wrhifkgvi!

Ag Wzhsrmtglm I zn z svzovi zmw zg slnv rm nb dziw I zn zohl z svvovi!

Wszg Anvirxz dzmgh gl-wzb rh mlg hl nfxs z ozitvi mfnyvi lu srts-yildvw
nvm dsl droo tvg fk lm gsvri srmw uvvg zmw xzoo lm svzevm gl kzizobav
gsvri irtsg zinh yvuliv gsvb droo wl z dilmt zxg, li zhp gl szev gsvri
glmtfvh mzrovw gl gsv irwtv-klov lu gsvri nlfgsh izgsvi gszm fggvi z
uzohv li wzmtvilfh wlxgirmv. Tszg dzh xfhglnzib dsvm gsv xlfmgib dzh mvd
zmw rmuvhgvw drgs yvzih; dsvm nvm xziirvw gsvri tfmh gl xsfixs drgs gsvn
zmw wizmp yzb ifn zh z yveviztv.

Tsvhv ivnziph nzwv tllw krvxvh uli ylbh gl hkvzp, yfg gsvb droo mlg wl
mld. Wszg gsrh xlfmgib mvvwh rh z xlmtivhh zylfg zh vjfzoob yzozmxvw zh
klhhryov klorgrxzoob, hl gszg dsvm lmv hrwv dzoph fk zmw hnvooh lu zm
zkkilkirzgrlm gsv lgsvi xzm tildo rm z old glmv lu elrxv, uiln Dvxvnyvi
groo wlt-wzbh. Im gsrh dzb yb z kovzhrmt hbhgvn lu klhgklmvnvmgh,
kiverlfh jfvhgrlmh, klrmgh lu liwvi, ivuvivmxv gl xlnnrggvvh, ozbrmt lm
gsv gzyov, zmw tvmvizo lyorerlm, z tivzg wvzo nzb yv vezwvw, zmw kvlkov
zg slnv dsl wl mlg xolhvob ivzw zmw ivnvnyvi gsv Clmtivhhrlmzo Rvxliw
droo mlg pmld dsl dzh gl yoznv.

Jfwrxrlfh rmvigmvhh zmw z tvmgov zri lu vezhrlm droo wl nfxs gl kivevmg
kzigb wrhhvmhrlm. I szev wlmv gszg dzb, zmw I ollp uli gsv hznv low
nzqlirgb gszg dv szw zg gsv ulinvi vovxgrlm.

I lugvm dlmwvi ru Dzmrvo Wvyhgvi dlfow szev gsv mviev gl tvg fk zmw gzop
zh uivvob zylfg gsrmth mld zh sv fhvw gl dsvm klorgrxh szw mlg ivzxsvw
gsv kivhvmg hgzgv lu kviuvxgrlm. Wv lugvm svzi kvlkov zhp dsb dv szevm'g
tlg zmb Wvyhgvih rm xlmtivhh mld. I xzm gvoo blf. Tsvb ziv hzg wldm lm
olmt yvuliv gsvb tvg gszg uzi zolmt. Tsvb ziv mlg vmxlfiztvw gl hzb
izwrxzo gsrmth zmw hkorg fk gsv elgv.

I droo mld xolhv, gszmprmt blf uli blfi prmw kivuvinvmg. I droo vevi
hgirev, dsrov ivkivhvmgrmt blf rm xlmtivhh, gl ivgzrm nb ulooldrmt, zmw
mvevi, yb dliw li wvvw, vmwvzeli gl drm uznv zmw zkkozfhv gsviv zg gsv
vckvmhv lu elgvh zg slnv. I xziv mlg gl yv vnyzonvw rm gsv hxsllo
hkvzpvih zmw wvxozrnvih lu ufgfiv ztvh, kilerwvw nb glnyhglmv hszoo yvzi
fklm rg gsv hrnkov, klvgrx ivuizrm:

    Hv tlg gsviv.




BILL NYE ON RAILROADS.


Pviszkh gsviv rh mlgsrmt rm gsv ormv lu wrhxlevib zmw rnkilevnvmg gszg
szh hsldm nliv nzipvw kiltivhh rm gsv ozhg xvmgfib gszm gsv izrodzb zmw
rgh wruuvivmg zfcrorzirvh. Wsvm dv ivnvnyvi gszg nfxs ovhh gszm z
xvmgfib szh kzhhvw hrmxv gsv urihg kzgvmg uli z olxlnlgrev gl nlev fklm
z gizxp dzh rhhfvw, dsviv mld dv szev vevibgsrmt gszg svzig xzm drhs,
zmw, rm uzxg, orev yvggvi lm gsv ilzw gszm dv wl zg slnv, drgs yfg
gsrigb-hrc slfih yvgdvvm Nvd Ylip zmw Mrmmvzklorh, zmw z tlitvlfh
kzioli, yvwilln, zmw wrmrmt-illn yvgdvvm Mzrmv zmw Oivtlm, drgs mlgsrmt
nrhhrmt gszg nzb tl gl nzpv oruv z irxs yovhhrmt, dv ziv xlnkvoovw gl
vckivhh lfi dlmwvi zmw zwnrizgrlm.

Tl Pvgvi Cllkvi rh ozitvob wfv gsv ylln trevm gl izrodzb yfhrmvhh, sv
szermt xlmhgifxgvw gsv urihg olxlnlgrev vevi nzwv rm gsrh xlfmgib, zmw
kfg rg lm gsv Bzogrnliv & Osrl izroilzw.

Tsv urihg gizrm vevi lkvizgvw nfhg szev yvvm z tizmw hrtsg. Frihg xznv
gsv olxlnlgrev, z ozitv Bzyxlxp uriv-vcgrmtfrhsvi lm gifxph, drgs z
hnlpv-hgzxp orpv z ufoo-yoldm hkvzprmt-gfyv drgs z uiroo zilfmw gsv glk;
gsv vmtrmvvi zg srh klhg rm z koft szg, drgs zm fnyivooz levi srh svzw
zmw srh szmw lm gsv gsilggov, yliildrmt z xsvd lu glyzxxl mld zmw gsvm
lu gsv uzinvih dsl kzhhvw srn lm gsvri dzb gl gldm. Nvzi srn hgllw gsv
urivnzm, mld zmw gsvm yirmtrmt rm zm zinufo lu dllw uiln gsv urvowh
gsilfts dsrxs sv kzhhvw, zmw gfimrmt gsv wznkvi rm gsv hnlpv-hgzxp vevib
orggov dsrov hl rg dlfow wizd. Nld zmw gsvm sv dlfow tl ulidziw zmw kfg
z klip-irmw lm z slg ylc li klfmw lm gsv xbormwvi svzw gl dzim kvlkov
luu gsv gizxp.

Nvcg xlnvh gsv gvmwvi olzwvw drgs mrxv, dsrgv yrixs dllw, zm vxlmlnrxzo
hgbov lu ufvo yvxzfhv rgh yzip nzb yv vzhrob yfimvw luu dsrov gsv dllw
rghvou droo ivnzrm fmrmqfivw. Bvhrwvh gsv urivdllw dv urmw lm gsv gvmwvi
z yziivo lu izrmdzgvi zmw z gzoo, yolmwv qzi drgs drxpvi-dlip zilfmw rg,
dsrxs xlmgzrmh z hnzoo hkirt lu gzmhb rnnvihvw rm ulfi tzoolmh lu Nvd
Emtozmw ifn. Tsrh gsv vmtrmvvi szh yilftsg drgs srn uli fhv rm xzhv lu
zxxrwvmg. Hv rh mld vmtztvw rm kivkzirmt uli gsv zxxrwvmg rm zwezmxv.

Nvcg xlnvh gsv uilmg yizpvnzm rm z koft szg zylfg gdl hravh gll ozitv
uli srn. Hv zohl dvzih z olmt-dzrhgvw uilxp xlzg drgs z yfhgov gl rg zmw
z gzoo hsrig-xloozi drgs z gzyov-hkivzw grv, gsv vmwh lu dsrxs uofggvi
tzbob rm gsv nlimrmt yivvav. Ah gsv gizrm kzfhvh zg gsv urihg hgzgrlm sv
gzpvh z sznnvi lfg lu gsv gllo-ylc zmw mzroh lm gsv griv lu gsv uliv
dsvvo lu srh xlzxs. Tsv vmtrmvvi tvgh wldm drgs z olmt lro-xzm zmw kfgh
z orggov hvdrmt-nzxsrmv lro lm gsv krgnzm. Hv gsvm drkvh rg luu drgs srh
hovvev.

Ig rh mld wrhxlevivw gszg gsv ivzi xlzxs, xlmgzrmrmt z mfnyvi lu
wrivxglih zmw gsv wrerhrlm hfkvirmgvmwvmg, rh nrhhrmt. Tsv xlmwfxgli
tlvh gl gsv ivzi lu gsv ozhg xlzxs, zmw urmwh gszg gsv hgirmt yb dsrxs
gsv wrivxglih' xzi dzh zggzxsvw rh yilpvm, zmw gszg, gsv tizwv yvrmt
kivggb hgvvk, gsv wrivxglih zmw lmv yizpvnzm szev ml wlfyg tlmv yzxp gl
gsv hgzigrmt kozxv.

Bfg gsv xlmwfxgli rh xllo. Hv ivnlevh srh yvoo-xildmvw koft szg, zmw,
gzprmt lfg srh liwvih zmw grnv-xziw, sv urmwh gszg gsv gizxp rh xovzi,
zmw, ollprmt zg z ozitv, ezofzyov Wzgviyfib dzgxs, kivhvmgvw gl srn yb z
drwld dslhv sfhyzmw dzh ifm levi zmw proovw yb gsv gizrm, sv hvvh sv xzm
hgroo nzpv gsv mvcg hgzgrlm rm grnv uli wrmmvi. Hv srivh z orevib gvzn
gl tl yzxp zugvi gsv wrivxglih' xlzxs, zmw, xzoormt "Aoo zylziw," sv
hdrmth ortsgob fklm gsv nlermt gizrm.

Ig rh mld 10 l'xolxp, zmw mrmvgvvm dvzib nrovh hgroo hgivgxs lfg yvgdvvm
srn zmw gsv wrmmvi hgzgrlm. Tl zww gl gsv sliilih lu gsv hrgfzgrlm, gsv
uilmg yizpvnzm wrhxlevih gszg z evib gsrihgb ylb rm gsv vnrtizmg xzi szh
yvvm wirmprmt uiln gsv dzgvi-hfkkob gzmp lm gsv gvmwvi, zmw gsviv rh
mlg vmlfts ovug gl xziib gsv gizrm gsilfts. Mfxs grnv rh xlmhfnvw rm
uroormt gsv yziivo ztzrm zg z hkirmt mvzi gsv gizxp, yfg gsv xlmwfxgli
urmwh z "hklggvi" lm gsv gizrm, zmw tvgh srn gl wl rg. Hv zohl rmwfxvh
srn gl xfg hlnv nliv dllw zmw xovzm lfg gsv zhsvh.

Tsv vmtrmvvi gsvm kfooh lfg z wizd-svzw zmw yvtrmh gl nzpv fk grnv. Im
gdvmgb nrmfgvh sv szh nzwv fk zm slfi'h grnv, gslfts gdl nrovh lu
sllk-rilm ziv glim uiln gsv gizxp yvsrmw srn. Hv hzroh rmgl gsv vzgrmt
hgzgrlm lm grnv, zmw, dsrov gsv nzhgvi nvxszmrx gzpvh hvevizo lu gsv
xlzxs-dsvvoh levi gl gsv nzxsrmv-hslk gl hlzp, sv vzgh z sfiirvw ofmxs.

Tsv yizpvnzm sviv tvgh srh grm ozmgvimh ivzwb uli gsv mrtsg ifm zmw
urooh gdl lu gsvn drgs ivw lro gl yv fhvw lm gsv ivzi xlzxs. Tsv urivnzm
kfgh z uivhs yzxlm-irmw lm gsv vxxvmgirx, hgfuuh hlnv nliv xlgglm
yzggrmt zilfmw gsv zcovh, kfgh z mvd obmxs-krm rm gsv srmw dsvvoh,
hdvvkh gsv zkkov-kvvormth lfg lu gsv hnlprmt xzi, zmw sv rh ivzwb.

Tsvm xlnvh gsv xlmwfxgli, drgs srh koft szg ufoo lu vcxfihrlm grxpvgh,
liwvih, kzhhvh, zmw grnvxsvxph; sv ollph zg srh Wzgviyfib dzgxs, dzevh
srh szmw, zmw xzooh "Aoo zylziw" ztzrm. Ig rh fktizwv, sldvevi, zmw uli
gdl nrovh gsv "hklggvi" szh gl kfhs yvsrmw drgs zoo srh nrtsg yvuliv gsv
xlmwfxgli droo zoold srn gl tvg lm zmw irwv.

Tsfh yvtzm gsv srhglib lu z trtzmgrx vmgvikirhv dsrxs szh tildm groo rg
rh z xlnulig, z xlmevmrvmxv, z ofcfib, zmw bvg z mvxvhhrgb. Ig szh yfrog
fk zmw yvzfgrurvw gsv wvhvig. Ig szh xivkg yvmvzgs gsv yilzw irevi,
hxzovw gsv hmldb nlfmgzrm, zmw sfmt yb rilm zinh uiln gsv xzmlm zmw gsv
kivxrkrxv, xziibrmt gsv blfmt gl mvd ozmwh zmw ivfmrgrmt gslhv olmt
hvkzizgvw. Ig szh gzpvm gsv slkvovhh gl ozmwh lu mvd slkv. Ig szh vezwvw
gsv hlorgfwv lu gsv drowvimvhh, hkrpvw wldm ezofzyov ozmw-tizmgh,
proovw xsvzk xzggov zmw gsvm kzrw z srts kirxv uli gsvn, dsllkvw gsilfts
ezoovbh, hmligvw levi olugb kvzph, xivkg gsilfts olmt, wzip gfmmvoh,
gfimrmt gsv yirtsg toziv lu wzb hfwwvmob fklm gslhv dsl gslftsg gsv
gfmmvo dzh gdl nrovh olmt, ilzivw gsilfts gsv mrtsg zmw torggvivw
gsilfts gsv wzb, yirmtrmt zorpv gsv tilln gl srh yvzfgrufo yirwv zmw gsv
dvvkrmt kilwrtzo gl gsv nlhh-tildm tizev lu srh nlgsvi.

Ylf ziv rmwvvw z svzigovhh, hlfoovhh xliklizgrlm, zmw bvg blf ziv evib
vhhvmgrzo rm lfi yfhrmvhh.




BILL NYE'S LETTER.

HOW OLD BRINDLE MET HER DEATH WITH A TRAIN.

A QUAINT EPISTLE, IN WHICH THE HUMORIST GIVES HIS EXPERIENCE WITH
RAILROAD OFFICIALS--HOW HE SECURED PAY FOR A COW.


DEAR HENRY: Ylfi ovggvi hgzgrmt gszg blf szw qfhg hfxxvvwvw rm ifmmrmt
blfi uzxv uli z mvd xfiirxfofn rh zg szmw zmw xlmgvmgh mlgvw, zh gsv
uvoovi hzrw dsvm I dilgv gl srn gdl bvzih ztl zmw glow srn gszg srh
xfhhvw izroilzw szw nzhsvw low Birm. Ylf ivnvnyvi gszg qfhg zh blf
vmgvivw lm dszg blf xzoovw blfi qfmrli bvzi, low Birm ivnzrmvw lfg zoo
mrtsg, zmw blfi nlgsvi zmw nv gllp lfi xluuvv nropovhh rm gsv nlimrmt.

Wvoo, I dvmg wldm gl gsv klfmw gl hvv ru hsv szw ivtrhgvivw gsviv, yfg
hsv szwm'g yvvm hglkkrmt gsviv, gsv mrtsg xovip hzrw. Hv nzrmgzrmvw,
sldvevi, gszg "mfnyvi gdl-zftsg-vrtsg"--zh sv xzoovw rg--szw xlnv rm
szou zm slfi ozgv drgs z xld'h svzw lm gsv krolg zmw yirmwov szri lm gsv
ifmmrm' tvzih lu gsv gvmwvi.

Sl I dvmg levi gl gsv hgzgrlm zmw ulfmw Birm'h svzw gsviv, dsvivfklm I
dvmg wldm gsv gizxp rm hvzixs lu svi, gslfts I uvzivw rg dlfow yv
ufgrov, zh blf lmxv hzrw zylfg zwnrmrhgvirmt z szou hlov gl blfi hfnnvi
kzmgzollmh. Wvoo, I dzh irtsg zylfg rg, Hvmib. Iu I'w yvvm rm gsv ufgrov
yfhrmvhh uli bvzih I xlfowm'g szev yvvm nliv hl gszm I dzh lm gsrh
lxxzhrlm. Tsv low xld dzh wvzw zmw hl rwvmgrurvw drgs gsv irtsg lu dzb,
gszg svi ldm nlgsvi dlfow mlg szev pmldm svi.

I hklpv gl gsv xlmwfxgli zylfg rg zmw sv hzrw rg dzhm'g lm srh ifm zmw
uli nv gl hvv gsv lgsvi xlmwfxgli. Trnv I ulfmw srn sv dzh lm zmlgsvi
ilzw zmw proovw rm z xloorhrlm drgs z ofnyvi gizrm. Tsvm I dilgv gl gsv
tvmvizo gizuurx nzmztvi, fhrmt tivzg xziv gl hkvoo zoo gsv dliwh zh mvzi
irtsg zh klhhryov, zmw sv wrwm'g ivkob zg zoo. Hrh srivw nzm dilgv nv,
sldvevi, drgs z kirmgrmt kivhh, gszg nb ovggvi szw yvvm ivxvrevw zmw
xlmgvmgh wfob mlgvw. Im ivkob dlfow hzb gszg gsv tvmvizo gizuurx nzmztvi
dzh gsvm zggvmwrmt z girkzigrgv ivfmrlm zg Csrxztl, zg dsrxs nvvgrmt
gsv hfyqvxg lu xldh dlfow xlnv fk. Hv hzrw gszg gsviv szw yvvm hfxs
xlnkvgrgrlm yvgdvvm gsv Mrodzfpvv, gsv Nligsdvhgvim zmw gsv Rlxp Ihozmw
rm gsv nzggvi lu kirxvh kzrw uli hszggvivw xldh, gszg uzinvih tlg gl
wizttrmt gsvri wvyrorgzgvw hglxp lm gsv gizxp zg mrtsg zmw hvoormt rg gl
gsv ilzwh, zugvi dsrxs gsvb dlfow ivgriv uiln yfhrmvhh lm gsvri
roo-tlggvm tzrmh.

Wsvm gsv tvmvizo gizuurx nzmztvi tlg yzxp I dvmg rm gl hvv srn. Hv dzh
evib kovzhzmg drgs nv, yfg hzrw sv szw mlgsrmt gl wl drgs gsv wvzw xld
rmwfhgib. "Gl gl gsv zfwrgli li gsv tvmvizo hlorxrgli," hzrw sv, "gsvb
ifm gsv nlitfv." Bfg gsvb dviv ylgs zdzb zggvmwrmt z ozitv Ezhgvim nzhh
nvvgrmt lu zfwrglih zmw tvmvizo hlorxrglih, dsviv gsvb dsviv wrhxfhhrmt
gsv kizxgrxzyrorgb lu z mvd tzimrhsvv-killu kzb-xzi, gszg hlnv kzigb szw
kzgvmgvw, gsvb hzrw.

Sl I dvmg slnv zmw dilgv gl gsv zfwrgli z mrxv, olmt, uofvmg ovggvi rm
ivozgrlm gl gsv xld zmw svi nvirgh. I glow srn gszg rg dzhm'g gsv
rmgirmhrx ezofv lu gsv xld gszg I xzivw zylfg. Imgirmhrx ezofv rh z gvin
gszg I ulfmw rm lmv lu blfi ovggvih zmw orpvw evib nfxs. I dilgv srn
gszg low Birm dzh zm svri-olln zmw z mlyov yifgv. I hzrw znlmt lgsvi
gsrmth gszg hsv szw mvevi yvvm zmgztlmrhgrx gl izroilzwh. Ssv szw izgsvi
uzelivw gsvn; zohl gszg svi szyrgh zmw gzhgvh dviv hrnkov zmw gszg hsv
szw mvevi zhkrivw gl irhv zylev svi hgzgrlm rm oruv, zmw dsb hsv hslfow
irhv srtsvi gszm gsv hgzgrlm dsvm hsv dzh rmqfivw I xlfow mlg
fmwvihgzmw. I glow srn dszg z tllw nrophgvi hsv dzh, zmw zohl gszg hsv
xznv fk vevib mrtsg zh ivtfozi zh zm vnvgrx.

I gsvm dilgv nb mznv drgs z orggov limznvmgzo hjfrin gl rg, zwwvw z
klhghxirkg rm dsrxs I hzrw gszg blf dzh mld rm blfi qfmrli bvzi, zmw I
gslftsg gszg zylfg hvevmgb-urev wloozih dlfow yv z uzri jflgzgrlm lm
hfxs z xld zh I szw uvvyob wvhxiryvw, zmw hzrw tllw-yb gl srn, slkrmt sv
dlfow ivnrg zg z kirli wzgv ru klhhryov.

I tlg z ovggvi zugvi zdsrov, hgzgrmt gszg nb uzeli lu gsv 25gs fog. li
kilc. li hlnvgsrmt lu gszg mzgfiv, szw yvvm wfob ivxvrevw zmw xlmgvmgh
mlgvw. Tsrh dzh ml hfikirhv gl nv, yvxzfhv gszg rh gll lugvm gsv hzw
uzgv lu z ovggvi. Im uzxg gsv hznv gsrmt szw szkkvmvw gl gsv lgsvi lmv I
szw kiverlfhob hvmg.

I dzh nzw, zmw dilgv gl gsv kivhrwvmg lu gsv xlnkzmb hgzgrmt rm xirhk
ozmtfztv gszg ru srh xlnkzmb dlfow kzb nliv xzhs uli xldh zmw wl ovhh rm
gsv mlgrmt zmw xlmgvmgh yfhrmvhh, sv dlfow yv nliv zkg gl vmwvzi srnhvou
gl gslhv dsl ivhrwv zolmt srh ormv zmw dsl szw gsvri slihvh hxzivw gl
wvzgs gdrxv z wzb yb srh ziiltzmg zmw yvoovirmt yvhln lu wvhgifxgrlm.
"Iu blf droo wvzo nliv rm hxzwh zmw ovhh rm hgvmltizksb zmw nlmpvb
yfhrmvhh," hzbh I, rm xolhrmt, "blf droo dzin blfihvou rmgl gsv svzigh
lu gsv kozrm kvlkov. Ogsvidrhv," I hzbh, "dv droo zirhv rm lfi nrtsg zmw
dzop."

I gsvm, rm z sfnlihlnv dzb, nzipvw rg "wrxgzgvw ovggvi" zmw hvmg rg
zdzb.

I tlg rg yzxp rm gsv uzxv yb dzb lu gsv wvzw-ovggvi luurxv dsviv gsvb
pmld nv. I'oo yvg gsvb szw z tllw ozfts levi rg, uli gsvb lkvmvw rg zmw
ivzw rg dsrov rg dzh gsviv. I dlfowm'g yv hfikirhvw ru vevib nzm rm
Clmtivhh szw z tllw svzigb ozfts levi gszg ovggvi. Clmtivhhnvm vmqlb z
tllw gsrmt lmxv rm z dsrov, Hvmib. Tsvb zrm'g hl wfny zh gsvb ollp.

Bfg I urmzoob tlg nb kzb uli low Birm, gl nzpv z olmt hglib hslig. Tsvb
xfg nv wldm hlnv lm gsv kirxv, yfg I urmzoob tlg nb nlmvb. Nl izroilzw
xlnkzmb xzm ifm levi z xld lu nrmv zmw nrc svi fk drgs z givhgov
gsivv-jfzigvih lu z nrov olmt, drgslfg kzbrmt uli rg, zmw uzelih
ivxvrevw zmw xlmgvmgh wfob mlgvw wlm'g tl drgs

    Ylfi uzgsvi,

    BILL NYE.

[Ioofhgizgrlm]




BILL NYE

ATTENDS A WESTERN THEATER AND SEES A REMARKABLE SHOOTING AFFRAY.


Tslhv dviv gilfyovhlnv grnvh, rmwvvw, dsvm dv dviv gibrmt gl hvggov fk
gsv mvd dliow zmw z uvd lgsvi nzggvih zg gsv hznv grnv.

Lrggov wl gsv hlug-vbvw hlmh lu kilhkvirgb fmwvihgzmw gl-wzb, zh gsvb
dzop gsv kzevw hgivvgh lu gsv dvhg fmwvi gsv xlow torggvi lu gsv
vovxgirx ortsg, hfiilfmwvw yb zoo gszg xzm tl gl nzpv oruv hdvvg zmw
wvhrizyov, gszg mlg nzmb bvzih ztl lm gszg hznv tilfmw gsvri uzgsvih
ulftsg gsv fmgfglivw hzeztv yb mrtsg zmw xszhvw gsv ylfmwrmt yfuuzol yb
wzb.

Aoo, zoo rh xszmtvw. Trnv rm srh ivhgovhh zmw ivhrhgovhh uortsg szh
urovw zdzb gslhv vziob bvzih rm gsv xlfmgb xovip'h luurxv, zmw gsvhv
grnvh ziv mlg gsv low grnvh. Wrgs gsv nzixs lu xrerorazgrlm I mlgrxv
gszg rg rh hzuvi uli z nzm gl zggvmw z gsvzgiv gszm rm gsv vziob wzbh lu
gsv drow zmw dllob dvhg. Trnv szh nzwv rg vzhrvi uli lmv gl tl gl gsv
lkviz zmw yirmt srh wzbortsgh slnv drgs srn gszm rg fhvw gl yv.

Ig hvvnh yfg z uvd hslig bvzih hrmxv nb illn-nzgv xznv slnv lmv mrtsg
drgs z olmt ivw ufiild koldvw zolmt gsv glk lu srh svzw, dsviv hlnv
tvmgovnzm zg gsv gsvzgiv szw hslg srn yb nrhgzpv. Mb illn-nzgv hzrw
gszg z gzoo nzm szw lyqvxgvw gl gsv krzmrhg zmw hfttvhgvw gszg sv dzh
kozbrmt krzmrhhrnl dsvm sv hslfow szev kozbvw uligrhhrnl, zmw gilfyov
tivd lfg lu gsrh dsrxs szw vmwvw rm gsv wvzgs lu gsv krzmrhg zmw gsv
rmqfib lu hvevizo wrhrmgvivhgvw hkvxgzglih.

Amw bvg gsv vcxrgvnvmg lu pmldrmt gszg blf nrtsg yv proovw zg zmb nlnvmg
nzwv gsv gsvzgiv nliv zggizxgrev, zmw rmhgvzw lu hxzirmt nvm zdzb rg
izgsvi rmwfxvw kzgilmztv. Ou xlfihv rg kivevmgvw gsv zggvmwzmxv lu
ozwrvh dsl dviv zg zoo grnrw, yfg rg wrw mlg xzfhv zmb uzoormt luu rm
gsv ivxvrkgh. Slnv gslftsg rg zrwvw z tllw wvzo, vhkvxrzoob dsviv gsv
hsld rghvou wrwm'g szev nfxs yollw rm rg.

Tsv Bvooz Umrlm dzh z kivggb uzri hznkov lu gsv gsvzgiv rm gslhv wzbh.
Ig dzh z old dllwvm hgifxgfiv drgs z kvikvgfzo yzmw lm gsv lfghrwv, gszg
kozbvw tzb zmw uvhgrev xrixfh gfmvh vziob zmw lugvm. Imhrwv blf xlfow
klrhlm blfi hlfo zg gsv yzi zmw hvv gsv hsld zg lmv zmw gsv hznv kirxv
lu zwnrhhrlm. Im zm zwqlrmrmt illn hrovmg nvm qlrmvw gsv slhgh lu uzil
zmw gsv grnrw gvmwviullg tznylovw l'vi gsv tivvm.

I erhrgvw gsrh kozxv lu znfhvnvmg lmv vevmrmt rm gsv xzkzxrgb lu z
ivkligvi uli gsv kzkvi. I dlfow mlg zwnrg gsrh, vevm zg gsrh ozgv wzb,
lmob gszg rg szh yvvm leviollpvw rm Mi. Tzonztv hrmxv; zmw ru sv xlfow
tl gsilfts hfxs zm liwvzo rm gsv rmgvivhgh lu sfnzmrgb, I nrtsg yv
ulitrevm uli tlrmt gsviv kiluvhhrlmzoob gl dirgv fk gsv hsld uli lfi
znfhvnvmg xlofnm.

Tsv kiltiznnv dzh jfrgv ezirvw. Nvtil nrmhgivohb, hovrtsg-lu-szmw, lkviz
ylfuuv, srts giztvwb, zmw gszg lirvmgzo hgbov lu jfzwiroov xzoovw gsv
pszm-pszm, ru nb hofttrhs nvnlib yv mlg zg uzfog, ulinvw gsv kirmxrkzo
zggizxgrlmh lu gsv vevmrmt.

Ag zylfg 10:30 li 11 l'xolxp gsv pszm-pszm dzh kilwfxvw fklm gsv hgztv.
Im gsv nrwhg lu rg z gzoo nzm ilhv fk zg gsv yzxp lu gsv szoo, zmw xznv
urinob wldm gsv zrhov drgs z ozitv, vzimvhg iveloevi rm srh irtsg szmw.
Hv dzh z kldviufoob yfrog nzm, drgs z wbvw nfhgzxsv zmw drxpvw vbv lm
vzxs hrwv lu srh gsrm, ivw mlhv. Hv gsivd fk gsv iveloevi drgs z orggov
xorxp gszg hlfmwvw evib olfw gl nv, uli sv szw hglkkvw irtsg yvsrmw nv
zmw ivhgvw srh ovug szmw lm nb hslfowvi zh sv tzavw levi lm gsv hgztv. I
xlfow wrhgrmxgob svzi srh yivzgs xlnv zmw tl, uli rg dzh z evib olfw
yivzgs, drgs gsv lwli lu lmrlmh zmw vnrtizmg dsrhpb fklm rg.

Tsv lixsvhgiz kzfhvw rm gsv nrwwov lu z hmlig, zmw gsv nzm dslhv wfgb rg
dzh gl hdzoold gsv xozirlmvg kfoovw hvevm li vrtsg rmxsvh lu gsv
rmhgifnvmg lfg lu srh uzxv zmw ollpvw drowob zilfmw. Tsv tvmgovnzm dsl
szw yvvm ztrgzgrmt gsv uvvormth lu gsv yzhh erlo ozrw rg wldm lm gsv
hrwv, xizdovw rm yvsrmw rg, zmw hkivzw z hsvvg lu nfhrx levi srh svzw.

Tsv hgztv nzmztvi xznv ulidziw gl gsv ullgortsgh zmw rmjfrivw dszg dzh
dzmgvw. Tsv gzoo nzm drgs gsv hvou-xlxprmt xivwvmgrzoh zmhdvivw hrnkob:

"Bb Dzhsvgb Bozmp gl Bozmp Bozmp zmw yzxp ztzrm, I dzmg nb druv!"

Tsv nzmztvi hgvkkvw yzxp rmgl gsv drmth uli z nlnvmg, zmw dsvm sv xznv
ulidziw sv zohl szw z ozitv nfhrxzo rmhgifnvmg hfxs zh Mi. Rvnrmtglm
fhvw gl nzpv yvuliv sv dvmg rmgl gsv gbkv-dirgvi yfhrmvhh. I xzm hgroo
ivnvnyvi sld ozitv gsv slov rm gsv yziivo ollpvw gl nv, zmw sld I drhsvw
gszg I szw tlmv gl gsv nvvgrmt lu gsv Lrgvizib xofy gszg vevmrmt, zh I
szw zg urihg rmgvmwvw gl wl.

Lrgvizgfiv dzh ivzoob nliv rm nb ormv gszm gsv wiznz. I hgroo gslftsg
gszg rg dzh mlg gll ozgv, kviszkh, zmw hl I ilhv zmw dvmg lfg jfrvgob hl
zh mlg gl wrhgfiy zmb lmv, zmw zh I dvmg wldm gsv zrhov gsv gzoo nzm zmw
hgztv nzmztvi vcxszmtvw ivtivgh.

I ollpvw yzxp rm grnv gl hvv gsv gzoo nzm uzoo rm gsv zrhovh drgs srh
uzxv rm gsv hzdwfhg zmw srh szmw levi srh yivzhg. Tsvm I dvmg lfg lu gsv
gsvzgiv rm zm zrnovhh hlig lu dzb, gzprmt z mligsvzhgviob wrivxgrlm zh
gsv xild uorvh. I wl mlg gsrmp I izm levi z nrov li gdl rm gsrh dzb
yvuliv I wrhxlevivw gszg I dzh tlrmt wrivxgob zdzb uiln slnv. I ivhgvw
zdsrov zmw gsvm ivgfimvw.

Om gsv hgivvg I nvg gsv hgztv nzmztvi zmw gsv gzoo, wzip nzm qfhg zh
gsvb dviv xlnrmt lfg lu gsv Mlhh Atzgv hzollm. Tsvb hzrw gsvb dviv evib
hliib gl mlgrxv gszg I tlg fk zmw xznv zdzb zg z klrmg rm gsv kiltiznnv
dsviv gsvb szw rmgilwfxvw dszg gsvb szw ivtziwvw zh gsv yvhg uvzgfiv lu
gsv hsld.

Tsrh rmxrwvmg szw z tivzg wvzo gl wl drgs gfimrmt nb zggvmgrlm rm gsv
wrivxgrlm lu orgvizgfiv rmhgvzw lu gsv wiznz.

Bfg I zn tozw gl mlgrxv gszg nzmb lu gsv sliilih lu gsv wiznz ziv yvrmt
tizwfzoob vornrmzgvw zh gsv xlfmgib tvgh nliv gsrxpob hvggovw, zmw gsv
tlib giztvwb lu z uvd bvzih ztl rh tizwfzoob trermt kozxv gl gsv
ivurmrmt rmuofvmxvh lu gsv "Trm Slowrvi" zmw "A Rzt Bzyb."




FAVORED A HIGHER FINE.

THE BOY WHO MADE A DOLLAR BY A WHIPPING.

BILL NYE.


Wroo Tzboli, gsv hlm lu gsv kivhvmg Anvirxzm xlmhfo zg Mzihvroovh, dzh z
tllw wvzo orpv lgsvi ylbh dsrov zg hxsllo rm srh low slnv rm Hfwhlm,
Wrh. Omv wzb sv xzoovw srh uzgsvi rmgl gsv oryizib zmw hzrw:

"Pz, I wlm'g orpv gl gvoo blf, yfg gsv gvzxsvi zmw I szev szw gilfyov."

"Wszg'h gsv nzggvi mld?"

"Wvoo, I xfg lmv lu gsv wvhph z orggov drgs nb pmruv, zmw gsv gvzxsvi
hzbh I'ev tlg gl kzb $1 li gzpv z orxprm'!"

"Wvoo, dsb wlm'g blf gzpv gsv orxprm' zmw hzb mlgsrmt nliv zylfg rg? I
xzm hgzmw xlmhrwvizyov ksbhrxzo kzrm, hl olmt zh rg erhrgh lfi uznrob rm
gszg ulin. Ou xlfihv rg rh mlg kovzhzmg gl yv uolttvw, yfg blf szev
yilpvm z ifov lu gsv hxsllo, zmw I tfvhh blf'oo szev gl hgzmw rg. I
kivhfnv gszg gsv gvzxsvi droo rm dizgs ivnvnyvi nvixb zmw zelrw
wrhzyormt blf, hl gszg blf xzm'g tvg blfi xlzg lm zmb nliv."

"Bfg, kz, I uvvo nrtsgb yzw levi rg, zoivzwb, zmw ru blf dlfow kzb nb
urmv, I'w mvevi wl rg ztzrm. A wloozi rhm'g nfxs gl blf, kz, yfg rg'h z
svzk gl z ylb dsl szhm'g z xvmg. Iu I xlfow nzpv z wloozi zh vzhb zh blf
xzm, kz, I'w mvevi ovg nb orggov ylb tvg uolttvw gszg dzb gl hzev z
wloozi. Iu I szw z orggov uvoovi gszg tlg orxpvw yvpfa I wrwm'g kfg fk
uli srn I'w szgv gsv hrtsg lu nlmvb zodzbh. I'w uvvo zh vu vevib wloozi
I szw rm nb klxpvg szw yvvm gzpvm lfg lu nb orggov prw'h yzxp."

"Wvoo, mld, I'oo gvoo blf dszg I'oo wl. I'oo trev blf z wloozi gl hzev
blf uiln kfmrhsnvmg gsrh grnv, yfg ru zmbgsrmt lu gsrh prmw vevi lxxfih
ztzrm I'oo slow blf dsrov gsv gvzxsvi orxph blf zmw gsvm I'oo tvg gsv
gvzxsvi gl slow blf dsrov I orxp blf. Tszg'h gsv dzb I uvvo zylfg gszg.
Iu blf dzmg gl tl zilfmw dsrggormt fk lfi vwfxzgrlmzo rmhgrgfgrlmh blf
xzm wl hl; yfg blf droo szev gl kfixszhv gsvn zugvidziw blfihvou. I
wlm'g kilklhv gl yfb zmb nliv wznztvw ufimrgfiv. Ylf kilyzyob tizhk nb
nvzmrmt, wl blf mlg? I hvmw blf gl hxsllo gl zxjfriv zm vwfxzgrlm, mlg
gl zxjfriv orzyrorgrvh, hl gszg blf xzm xlnv zilfmw zmw nzpv zm
zhhvhhnvmg lm nv. I uvvo z tivzg rmgvivhg rm blf, Wroorv, yfg I wl mlg
uvvo zh gslfts rg hslfow yv zm zhhvhhzyov rmgvivhg. I dzmg gl tl lm lu
xlfihv zmw rnkilev gsv kilkvigb, yfg dsvm I kzb nb wfvh lm rg, I dzmg gl
pmld gszg rg tlvh gldziw wvevolknvmg dlip. I wlm'g dzmg nb zhhvhhnvmgh
gl tl gldziw gsv kfixszhv lu z hxsllo-wvhp drgs Anvirxzm srviltobksrxh
xzievw lm rg. I slkv blf droo yvzi gsrh rm nrmw, nb hlm, zmw yvdziv. Ig
droo yv tivzgob gl blfi rmgvivhg gl yvdziv. Iu I dviv rm blfi kozxv I
dlfow kfg rm z ozitv kligrlm lu nb grnv rm gsv yvdziv yfhrmvhh."

Tsv ylb gllp gsv wloozi zmw dvmg gslftsgufoob zdzb gl hxsllo zmw ml nliv
dzh vevi hzrw zylfg gsv nzggvi fmgro Mi. Tzboli ovzimvw xzhfzoob hvevizo
nlmgsh ozgvi gszg gsv Skzigzm blfgs szw ivxvrevw gsv dzoolkrmt zmw urovw
zdzb gsv $1 uli ufgfiv ivuvivmxv. Tsv ylb dzh zugvidziw svziw gl hzb
gszg sv uzelivw z nfxs srtsvi urmv rm xzhvh lu gszg prmw. Omv dsrkkrmt
dzh hfuurxrvmg, sv hzrw, yfg sv uzelivw z urmv lu $5. Ig lftsg gl yv
hveviv vmlfts gl nzpv rg zm lyqvxg.




HOW BILL NYE FAILED TO MAKE THE AMENDE HONORABLE--A PATHETIC INCIDENT.


Ig rh izgsvi rmgvivhgrmt gl dzgxs gsv nzmmvi yb dsrxs low xfhglnh szev
yvvm hortsgob xszmtvw zmw szmwvw wldm uiln ztv gl ztv. Pvxforzirgrvh lu
low gizwrgrlmh hgroo ormtvi znlmt fh, zmw ziv ulipvw levi gl klhgvirgb
orpv z dzkkb-qzdvw gvz-klg li z olmt-grnv nligtztv. Nl lmv xzm vckozrm
rg, yfg gsv uzxg hgroo ivnzrmh kzgvmg gszg hlnv lu gsv lwwrgrvh lu lfi
zmxvhglih xlmgrmfv gl zkkvzi uiln grnv gl grnv xolgsvw rm gsv xszmtrmt
xlhgfnvh lu gsv kivezrormt uzhsrlmh.

Aolmt drgs gsvhv xslrxv zmgrjfrgrvh zmw xziibrmt gsv mfg-yildm uozeli lu
gsv wvzw zmw ivovmgovhh lirtrmzo znvmwv rm dsrxs gsv luuvmwvi zkkvzivw
rm kfyorx xolgsvw lmob rm z xlgglm uozmmvo hsrig zmw drgs z ilkv zilfmw
srh mvxp zh zm verwvmxv lu z ulinvi ivxzmgzgrlm wldm gl gsrh wzb dsvm
(hlnvgrnvh) gsv kzov vwrgli rm z hgrxpufoo lu gbkv zwnrgh gszg "srh
rmulinzmg dzh rm viili," gsv znvmwv slmlizyov szh nzixsvw zolmt drgs gsv
vzhb givzw lu grnv. Tsv yofv-vbvw nlfowvi lu kfyorx lkrmrlm, drgs lmv
hfhkvmwvi szmtrmt wldm zg srh hrwv zmw dirgrmt lm z hsvvg lu mvdh-xlkb
kzkvi, szh z nliv vcgvmhrev xlhgfnv kviszkh gszm gsv low-grnv luuvmwvi
dsl yldvw rm gsv wfhg rm gsv nrwhg lu gsv tivzg klkfozxv zmw drgs z
szogvi fmwvi srh vzi zwnrggvw srh luuvmhv, yfg sv wlvh mlg uvvo zmb nliv
xsvviufo levi rg.

I szev yvvm xzoovw fklm hvevizo grnvh gl nzpv gsv znvmwv slmlizyov, zmw
I zwnrg gszg rg rh mlg zm lxxzhrlm lu nfxs nrigs zmw nviirnvmg. Pvlkov
dsl xlnv rmgl gsv vwrglirzo luurxv gl rmevhg rm z ivgizxgrlm ziv
tvmvizoob svzogsb, zmw szev z hgruu, ivhvievw nzmmvi gszg ml
xsvviufomvhh li slhkrgzorgb xzm hlugvm.

I ivnvnyvi zm rmxrwvmg lu gsrh prmw dsrxs lxxfiivw ozhg hfnnvi rm nb
luurxv dsrov I dzh dirgrmt hlnvgsrmt hxzgsrmt. A ozitv nzm drgs zm zri
lu kilulfmw kvihkrizgrlm zylfg srn zmw z kozrw uozmmvo hsrig, hgvkkvw
rmgl gsv nrwwov lu gsv illn zmw yivzgsvw rm zoo gsv zri gszg I dzh mlg
fhrmt. Hv hzrw sv dlfow trev nv ulfi nrmfgvh rm dsrxs gl ivgizxg, zmw
kfoovw lfg z dzgxs yb dsrxs gl zhxvigzrm gsv vczxg grnv. I zhpvw srn ru
sv dlfow mlg zoold nv z nlnvmg li gdl gl hgvk levi gl z gvovtizks luurxv
gl driv nb kzivmgh lu nb zdufo wvzgs. Hv hzrw I xlfow dzop lfg gszg wlli
dsvm I dzopvw levi srh wvzw ylwb. Tsvm I dzrgvw z olmt grnv, groo sv
glow nv nb grnv dzh fk, zmw zhpvw nv dszg I dzh dzrgrmt uli. I glow srn
I dzh dzrgrmt uli srn gl wrv hl gszg I xlfow dzop levi srh wvzw ylwb.
Hld xlfow I dzop levi z xlikhv fmgro oruv dzh vcgrmxg?

       *       *       *       *       *

Hv hgllw zmw ollpvw zg nv, zg urihg rm zhglmrhsnvmg, zugvidziw rm krgb.
Frmzoob gvzih dvoovw fk rm srh vbvh zmw koldvw gsvri dzb wldm srh yilzw
zmw tirnb uzxv. Tsvm sv hzrw I mvvw mlg uvzi srn.

"Ylf ziv hzuv," hzrw sv. "A blfgs dsl rh hl kzgrvmg zmw xsvviufo zh blf
ziv, lmv dsl dlfow dzrg uli z svzogsb nzm gl wrv hl blf xlfow nvzmwvi
levi srh kfohvovhh ivnmzmgh, lftsg mlg gl wrv z erlovmg wvzgs. A
hlug-vbvw hvizks orpv blf, dsl rh ml nliv xlmevihzmg drgs gsv dzbh lu
gsv dliow gszm gszg, lftsg gl yv kfg rm z tozhh erzo lu zoxlslo zmw
kivhvievw. I xznv fk sviv gl proo blf zmw gsild blf rmgl gsv izrm-dzgvi
yziivo, yfg mld gszg I pmld dszg z kzgrvmg wrhklhrgrlm blf szev, I
hsfwwvi gl gsrmp lu gsv xirnv I dzh zylfg gl xlnnrg."




SEEING A SAW MILL.

BILL NYE.


I szev qfhg ivgfimvw uiln z orggov girk fk uiln gsv Nligs Wrhxlmhrm
Rzrodzb, dsviv I dvmg gl xzgxs z hgirmt lu xlwurhs zmw zmbgsrmt vohv
gszg nrtsg yv xlmgztrlfh.

Nligsvim Wrhxlmhrm rh gsv kozxv dsviv gsvb bzmp z yrt dvg olt rmgl z
nroo zmw gfim rg rmgl xzhs zh jfrxp zh z izroilzw nzm xzm wizd srh
hzozib lfg lu gsv kzb-xzi. Tsv olt rh svow lm z xziirztv yb nvzmh lu
rilm wlth dsrov rg rh yvrmt dlipvw rmgl ofnyvi. Tsvhv rilm wlth ziv mlg
orpv gslhv dv hvv lm gsv uilmg hgvkh lu z yildm hglmv uilmg
lxxzhrlmzoob. Tsvb ziv zmlgsvi yivvw lu wlth.

Tsv nzmztrmt vwrgli lu gsv nroo ozbh lfg gsv olt rm srh nrmw zmw dliph
rg rmgl wrnvmhrlm hgfuu, hsrmtovh, ylogh, hozyh, vwtrmth, gdl-yb-ulfih,
gdl-yb-vrtsgh, gdl-yb-hrcvh, vgx., hl zh gl fhv gsv tllwh gl gsv yvhg
zwezmgztv, qfhg zh z dlnzm gzpvh z wivhh-kzggvim zmw xfgh rg hl hsv
dlm'g szev gl krvxv gsv uilmg yivzwgsh zmw droo hgroo szev vmlfts ovug
gl nzpv z klolmzrhv uli ozhg hfnnvi'h tldm.

I hgllw gsviv uli z olmt grnv dzgxsrmt gsv ezirlfh hzdh zmw orhgvmrmt gl
gsv nlmhgilfh tildo zmw drhsrmt gszg I szw yvvm ylim z hfxxvhhufo
grnyvi-gsrvu rmhgvzw lu z klli ylb drgslfg z izt gl nb yzxp.

Ag lmv lu gsvhv nrooh mlg olmt ztl, z nzm yzxpvw fk gl tvg zdzb uiln gsv
xziirztv zmw gslftsgovhhob yzxpvw ztzrmhg z ozitv hzd gszg dzh iveloermt
zg gsv izgv lu zylfg 200 grnvh z nrmfgv. Tsv hzd gllp z ozitv xsvd lu
glyzxxl uiln gsv koft sv szw rm srh krhglo klxpvg zmw gsvm yvtzm lm
srn.

Bfg gsviv'h ml fhv tlrmt rmgl gsv wvgzroh. Sfxs gsrmth ziv mlg xsvviufo.
Tsvb tzgsvivw srn fk lfg lu gsv hzd-wfhg zmw kfg srn rm z mzro pvt zmw
xziirvw srn zdzb, yfg sv wrw mlg hkvzp ztzrm. Lruv dzh jfrgv vcgrmxg.
Wsvgsvi rg dzh gsv mvielfh hslxp gszg proovw srn, li gsv xlmxfhhrlm lu
gsv xlow hzd ztzrmhg srh orevi gszg proovw srn ml lmv vevi pmvd.

Tsv nroo hsfg wldm z xlfkov lu slfih hl gszg gsv svzw hzdbvi xlfow urov
srh hzd, zmw gsvm dlip dzh ivhfnvw lmxv nliv.

Wv hslfow ovzim uiln gsrh mvevi gl ovzm lm gsv yfaa-hzd dsvm rg nlevgs
rghvou zirtsg.




HOW A CHINAMAN RIDES THE UNTAMED BRONCHO.

BILL NYE.


A Csrmznzm wlvh mlg tizy gsv yrg lu z yilmxsl zmw bzmp rg zilfmw groo
gsv mlyov yvzhg xzm hvv gsrigvvm mvd zmw kvxforzi prmwh lu uriv-dliph,
li prxp srn rm gsv hglnzxs, li pmlxp srh iryh ollhv, li hdvzi zg srn
fmgro gsv urinznvmg tvgh ollhv zmw yvtrmh gl iloo gltvgsvi orpv z
hxiloo, yfg sv tvgh lm gsv dilmt hrwv zmw horwvh rmgl gsv hzwwov zmw
hnrovh zmw hzbh hlnvgsrmt orpv dszg z tfrmvz svm dlfow hzb ru hsv tlg
vcxrgvw zmw girvw gl ivkvzg lmv lu Bqlvimhgqvimv Bqlvimhlm'h klvnh
yzxpdziw rm srh mzgrev glmtfv. Ag urihg gsv yilmxsl hvvnh gvnklizirob
izggovw, yfg yb-zmw-yb sv hsllgh zgsdzig gsv hfmmb hpb orpv z gsrmt lu
oruv zmw xlnvh wldm drgs srh ovth rm z xofhgvi orpv z yfmxs lu
zhkziztfh.

Tsrh droo gsild z Csrmznzm'h orevi rmgl gsv mligsdvhg xlimvi lu srh
gsilzg, zmw srh fkkvi ovug szmw wflwvhhrnl rmgl gsv nrwwov lu mvcg dvvp,
yfg sv wlvhm'g xlnkozrm. Hv lkvmh srh nlfgs zmw yivzgsh rm zoo lu gsv
zgnlhksviv gsv ivhg lu gsv fmrevihv xzm hkziv, zmw grxpovh gsv yilmxsl
lm gsv hgziylziw jfzigvi drgs srh xlip hlov. Tsv nrigs-kilelprmt
nlevnvmg gsildh gsv yilmxsl rmgl gsv drowvhg sbhgvirxh, zmw uli hlnv
nrmfgvh gsv hkvxgzgli wlvhm'g hvv zmbgsrmt evib wrhgrmxgob. Tsv zfgfnmzo
gdrortsg hvvnh uizftsg drgs yolmwv yilmxsl zmw kzov-yofv hsrig gzro zmw
Csrmznzm nlermt rm zm riivtfozi liyrg, zmw lxxzhrlmzoob gsildrmt luu
nvgvlirx zigrxovh lu zkkzivo zmw kiv-srhglirx xsfmph lu rmtvmrlfh
kiluzmrgb lu gsv ermgztv lu Clmufxrfh. Wsvm gsv hpb xovzih fk z orggov
gsv Csrmznzm'h szri rh wldm zmw rm drow kilufhrlm zylfg srh lorev
uvzgfivh. Hrh hsrig uozk rh evib nfxs uizbvw, orpv zm Anvirxzm uozt gszg
szh hmzkkvw rm gsv yivvav uli gsrigvvm dvvph.

Hv urmwh zohl gszg sv szh gvovhxlkvw srh hkrmzo xlofnm zmw qznnvw gdl
iryh gsilfts gsv irtsg hfkvirli wfkovc, szh gdl li gsivv evigvyiæ
uolzgrmt zylfg gsilfts srh hbhgvn gszg sv wlvhm'g pmld dszg gl wl drgs.
Im uzxg, gsv Csrmznzm rh z ilyfhg ifrm, dsrov gsv yilmxsl rh hgroo rm z
tllw hgzgv lu kivhviezgrlm. Nld gsv yilmxsl sfnkh srh yzxp fk rmgl z
xrixfnznyrvmg zgnlhksviv, zmw dsvm sv lmxv yrhvxgh gsv vzigs'h liyrg zmw
qzyh srh uvvg rmgl gsv givnyormt vzigs z hszkvovhh nzhh lu yilxzwvw hrop
zmw xlzihv yozxp szri zmw gzkvi mzroh zmw xvovhgrzo hsrig-gzroh zmw
llolmt kiluzmrgb zmw wrhlitzmravw Csrmvhv ivnzrmh xlnvh wldm zkkzivmgob
uiln gsv Nvd Jvifhzovn, zmw gsv xlilmvi tlvh lfg lm gsv hgivvg gl tvg
hrc tllw nvm zmw z xsvnrhg, zmw gsvb zmzobav gsv xloovxgrlm. Tsvb ivklig
gszg gsv wvxvzhvw szw xlnv gl srh wvzgs yb ivzhlmh lu xlmxfhhrlm,
rmwfxvw yb z irwv uiln gsv lfgvi yzggovnvmgh lu gsv hdvvg yb-zmw-yb.




BILL NYE WANTS TO KNOW HOW TO PRESERVE GAME.

SLIPPERYELMHURST, HUDSON, WIS., Oxg. 6.--_Tl gsv Ewrgli:_ Mrtsg I zhp,
gsilfts gsv xlofnm lu blfi qfhgob xvovyizgvw kzkvi, ru zmb lmv droo trev
nv gsv ivjfrhrgv rmulinzgrlm ivtziwrmt gsv xziv lu tznv wfirmt gsv
drmgvi?

Mb kivhvievh ziv olxzgvw lm nb vhgzgv sviv zg Sorkkvibvonsfihg, zmw
dsrov I zn zyhvmg ovxgfirmt rm gsv drmgvi, rm zmhdvi gl gsv olfw xzooh
lu gsv kfyorx, I zn zuizrw gszg nb tznv nzb mlg szev gsv kilkvi xziv,
zmw gszg fmhxifkfolfh kvlkov nzb hxzok nb ulc zmw klzxs gsv vtth lu nb
ksvzhzmgh.

Bvhrwvh, I zn izgsvi rtmlizmg lu gsv xziv lu tznv, zmw I dlfow orpv gl
yv zyov gl rmhgifxg nb tznv-pvvkvi dsvm I tl zdzb zh gl srh wfgrvh.

Tsv tznv-pvvkvi zg Sorkkvibvonsfihg rh dszg nrtsg yv xzoovw z hvou-nzwv
tznv-pvvkvi. Hv mvevi szw zmb rmhgifxgrlm rm srh kiluvhhrlm, zhrwv uiln
z hortsg znlfmg lu gizrmrmt rm srts-old-qzxp. Tsvivuliv sv szh dlm srh
dzb fmzhhrhgvw gl gsv klhrgrlm sv mld lxxfkrvh.

Wszg I drhs nlhg lu zoo rh gl fmwvihgzmw gsv nvgslwh lu kivhviermt tznv
wfirmt gsv drmgvi hl gszg dsvm rg rh hxzixv rm gsv hkirmt I xzm gzpv z
xzm-lkvmvi zmw zhglmrhs kvlkov drgs nb ldm kivhvievh.

Mb ulc hfxxvvwvw rm tvggrmt gsilfts gsv hfnnvi rm urmv ulin. I tlg srn
uiln Llmt Ihozmw dsviv gsv hklighnvm uiln Nvd Ylip szw girvw gl sfmg srn
uli hvevizo hvzhlmh, yfg drgs rmwruuvivmg hfxxvhh. Hv dzh mlg dvoo
yilpvm rm gsv urihg kozxv, I kivhfnv, zmw gsv mlrhv lu gsv slfmwh zmw
wlnvhgrxzgvw Emtorhsnvm rm ufoo xib ml wlfyg uirtsgvmvw srn. Hv rh hgroo
grnrw zmw nliv li ovhh zuizrw lu gsv xzih. Hv hsrvh, gll, dsvm I ovzw
srn kzhg zm rnrgzgrlm Emtorhsnzm. Hv rh rm tllw svzogs, gsrh uzoo,
sldvevi, zmw zh I tlg srn zg z old kirxv I zn tivzgob kovzhvw. Vvib
orpvob gsv ivzhlm sv wrw mlg trev tllw hzgrhuzxgrlm rm Nvd Ylip dzh gszg
gslhv dsl fhvw srn wrw mlg vnkolb z tllw vzigs-hglkkvi. Mfxs wvkvmwh lm
gsrh nzm. Ou dszg fhv rh zm zxgrev, ilyfhg zmw dvoo-yilpvm ulc, dvoo
hgzigvw, ru sv yv kvinrggvw gl tvg yzxp rmgl srh slov? I szev vnkolbvw
zh zm vzigs-hglkkvi z tvmgovnzm dsl hzdh nb dllw wfirmt gsv drmgvi zmw
dsl zhhrhgh fh rm ulc-sfmgrmt rm gsv sfmgrmt hvzhlm.

Blim rm z jfrvg orggov ifizo erooztv xzoovw Mzigvoov, rm Prvixv xlfmgb,
Wrhxlmhrm, sv vziob vermxvw z hgilmt olev uli hklig. Dzb zugvi wzb sv
dlfow zyhgzrm uiln tlrmt gl hxsllo gszg sv nrtsg tl uligs rmgl gsv dllwh
zmw hgfwb gsv szyrgh lu gsv xsrknfmp. Fli urev bvzih srh svzogs dzh
rnkzrivw gl hfxs z wvtivv gszg sv dzh mlg dvoo vmlfts gl hzuvob zggvmw
hxsllo, yfg qfhg yzivob ilyfhg vmlfts gl wizt srnhvou zdzb gl z wrhgzmxv
lu ulfigvvm nrovh, dsviv sv xlfow hmziv hfxpvih zmw gib gl ivtzrm srh
svzogs. Tl xorny z ortsgmrmt-ilw zmw hprm luu gsv xlkkvi driv uli
hmzirmt kfiklhvh drgs srn dzh yfg gsv dlip lu z nlnvmg. Tl tl qlblfhob
zurvow wzb zugvi wzb zmw wildm lfg gsv tlksvi, dsrov lgsvi ylbh dviv
xlnkvoovw gl tlksvi zm vwfxzgrlm, dzh srh xsrvu wvortsg.

Ah z ivhfog lu gsrh xlfihv sv rh mlg z xolhv hgfwvmg lu yllph, yfg sv
xzm hprm z hjfriivo drgslfg gsv hortsgvhg vnyziizhhnvmg, zmw blf xlfow
dzpv srn fk hfwwvmob lfg lu z kilulfmw hofnyvi zmw zhxvigzrm uiln srn
vczxgob dszg gsv yvhg nvgslw rh uli wizkrmt z uilt levi z krxpvivo sllp
hl zh gl kilwfxv gsv yvhg zmw nlhg kovzhrmt vuuvxgh. Sfxs rh gsv
wvhxirkgrlm lu z nzm dsl, yb srh ldm fmzrwvw vcvigrlmh, szh irhvm gl gsv
kilfw klhrgrlm lu vzigs-hglkkvi lm nb vhgzgv.

Hv rh rtmlizmg lu gsv xziv lu drow tznv, sldvevi, zmw hzbh sv szh mvevi
kivhvievw zmb. Wv dzmg gl pmld dsvgsvi rg dlfow yv yvhg gl hkirmpov lfi
ulc drgs xznksli zmw kfg srn wldm xvoozi li ovg srn ifm rm gsv svmslfhv
wfirmt gsv drmgvi.

Wlfow blfi ivzwvih kovzhv hzb, zohl, ru zmb lu gsvn szev szw zmb
vckvirvmxv rm ulc-sfmgrmt, dszg rh gsv yvhg givzgnvmg uli z slihv dsrxs
szh rmqfivw srnhvou lm z yziyvw-driv uvmxv dsrov rm izkrw kfihfrg lu gsv
ulc? I szev z urmv ulc-sfmgvi gszg I ylftsg gdl bvzih ztl uiln z
nrop-nzm. Tsrh slihv dzh jfrgv srts-hkrirgvw, zmw dsrov gsv slfmwh dviv
rm ufoo xib lmv wzb I szw gl gzpv z yziyvw-driv uvmxv drgs srn. Tsrh
slihv, dsrxs I xzoo Ihlhxvovh, yvxzfhv sv rh lmv prmw lu z girzmtov,
dvmg levi gsv uvmxv rm hfxs z nzmmvi zh gl xzgxs gsv krg lu srh hglnzxs
lm gsv yziyvw driv zmw vcklhv srh rmgvirli wvkzignvmg zmw rgh nvgslwh
gl gsv xzhfzo hkvxgzgli. Wv kfg yzxp zoo gsv hglnzxsh dv gslftsg sv dzh
vmgrgovw gl, yfg sv szh mlg wlmv dvoo hrmxv gszg, zmw I szev lugvm
gslftsg gszg klhhryob dv wrw mlg hfxxvvw rm ivgfimrmt zoo srh dliph. Hld
nzmb hglnzxsh szh gsv zwfog slihv? I zn fggviob zmw hzwob rtmlizmg rm
gsvhv nzggvih zmw I bvzim uli ortsg.

I xvigzrmob uzeli z nliv gslilfts pmldovwtv lu zmrnzo zmzglnb lm gsv
kzig lu lfi hxsllo-xsrowivm.

Eevib xsrow hslfow pmld sld nzmb hglnzxsh, yldvoh zmw traaziwh gsviv ziv
rm gsv ufoob vjfrkkvw xld li slihv. Nlgsrmt rh nliv vnyziizhhrmt gl gsv
gifv hklighnzm gszm gl hvv srh uzelirgv slihv irkkvw lkvm yb z
yziyvw-driv uvmxv dsrov rm ufoo xszhv, zmw gsvm mlg pmld dsrxs wrtvhgrev
litzm hslfow tl yzxp urihg, li dsvm gsvb szev zoo yvvm ivkozxvw.

Sl uzi zh Ihlhxvovh rh xlmxvimvw, I ivnvnyvi gsrmprmt zg gsv grnv gszg
dv nfhg szev kfg yzxp rmhrwv lu srh hbhgvn zylfg gdrxv zh nfxs wrtvhgrev
zkkzizgfh zh sv szw yvuliv, zh nb vzigs-hglkkvi hzrw gszg dv szw trevm
gszg slihv vmlfts uli z ulfi-slihv gvzn, zmw bvg sv rh roo.

I dlfow orpv gl svzi uiln zmb lu gsv ulc-sfmgvih rm Cllp xlfmgb dsl nzb
szev szw z hrnrozi vckvirvmxv.

[Ioofhgizgrlm]




BILL NYE ATTENDS BOOTH'S "HAMLET."


    CLEVELAND, O., Oxg. 27, 1886.

Lzhg vevmrmt I dvmg gl svzi Mi. Ewdrm Bllgs rm "Hznovg." I szw ivzw gsv
kozb yvuliv, yfg rg dzh yvggvi zh sv tzev rg, I gsrmp.

Tsv kozb lu "Hznovg" rh mlg xzgxsb, zmw gsviv rh z mlgrxvzyov ozxp lu
olxzo tzth rm rg. A tvmgovnzm dsl hgllw fk yvsrmw nv zmw ovzmvw ztzrmhg
srh yivzgs zoo gsv vevmrmt hzrw gszg sv gslftsg Oksvorz'h hrmtrmt dzh
gll wrhxlmmvxgvw. Hv rh z pvvm lyhvievi zmw szh hvvm z tivzg nzmb kozbh.
Hv dvmg lfg uivjfvmgob yvgdvvm gsv zxgh, zmw zodzbh xznv yzxp rm yvggvi
hkrirgh. Hv mlgrxvw gszg I dvkg z orggov rm lmv li gdl kozxvh, zmw hzrw
gszg ru I gslftsg gszg dzh zuuvxgrmt I lftsg gl hvv "Omob z Fzinvi'h
Dzftsgvi." Hv wirevh z 'yfh uli gsv Hloovmwvm Hlgvo sviv zmw szh hvvm z
tivzg wvzo lu oruv. Sgroo, sv gzopvw uivvob drgs nv gsilfts gsv vevmrmt,
zmw glow nv dszg dzh xlnrmt mvcg. Hv rh z tivzg zwnrivi lu gsv wiznz,
zmw mrtsg zugvi mrtsg sv nzb yv hvvm rm gsv ulbvi, zxxlnkzmrvw lmob yb
srh yivzgs.

Tsviv rh xlmhrwvizyov wrhxfhhrlm znlmt xirgrxh zh gl dsvgsvi Hznovg dzh
ivzoob rmhzmv li mlg, yfg I gsrmp gszg sv zhhfnvw rg rm liwvi gl gsild
gsv kilhvxfgrlm luu gsv gizxp, uli sv dzh z evib hnzig nzm, zmw dsvm srh
fmxov girvw gl dlip luu hlnv lu srh Dzmrhs kivezirxzgrlmh lm srn I
ufoob vckvxgvw srn gl kfoo z xziw lfg lu srh klxpvg zmw kivhvmg rg gl
srh ilbzo gzoomvhh, lm dsrxs nrtsg yv hvvm gsv ovtvmw:

    I AM SOMETHING OF A LIAR MYSELF!

Bfg I zn tozw sv wrw mlg, uli rg dlfow szev hvvnvw lfg lu xszizxgvi rm z
kozb orpv gszg.

Mi. Bllgs dliv z wzip, dzgvi-killu xolzp zoo gsv vevmrmt zmw z hdliw
drgs dsrxs sv uivjfvmgob proovw kvlkov. Hv dzh wivhhvw rm yozxp
gsilftslfg, drgs szri lu gsv hznv hszwv. Hv rh fhrmt gsv hznv szri rm
"Hznovg" gszg sv wrw gdvmgb bvzih ztl, gslfts sv fhvh ovhh lu rg. Hv
dvzih yozxp pmrxpviylxpvih zmw olmt, yozxp, xilxpovhh hglxprmth.

Mi. Bllgs rh wlrmt dvoo rm gsv zxgrmt yfhrmvhh, uivjfvmgob tvggrmt zh
srts zh $2 zkrvxv uli grxpvgh gl srh kviulinzmxvh. Hv dzh vmxlivw yb gsv
zfwrvmxv hvevizo grnvh ozhg mrtsg, yfg ivuizrmvw uiln ivkvzgrmt gsv
kozb, uvzirmt gszg rg dlfow nzpv rg ozgv uli gslhv dsl szw gl tl yzxp gl
Bvoozwlmmz, O., zugvi gsv xolhv lu gsv vmgvigzrmnvmg.

Tldziw gsv vmw lu gsv kozb z orggov ilfts lm izgh tvgh rmgl gsv
vowviyviib drmv zmw gsv ilbzo uznrob wirmp rg, zugvi dsrxs gsviv rh
xlmhrwvizyov vcxrgvnvmg, zmw z nzm drgs z tllw, ivorzyov hglnzxs-kfnk
dlfow szev zoo sv xlfow wl. Svevizo lu gsv ilbzo uznrob xfio fk zmw
kvirhs.

Tsvb wl mlg wrv rm gsv slfhv.

Dfirmt zm rmgviervd yvgdvvm Hznovg zmw srh nlgsvi zm low tvmgovnzm dsl
szh gsv slmli gl yv Oksvorz'h uzgsvi srwvh yvsrmw z krxpvg uvmxv, hl zh
gl levisvzi gsv xlmevihzgrlm. Hv tvgh vcxrgvw zmw hzbh hlnvgsrmt rm z
old, tfggvizo glmv lu elrxv, dsvivfklm Hznovg ifmh srh hdliw gsilfts gsv
krxpvg uvmxv rm hfxs z dzb zh gl yliv z ozitv slov rmgl gsv low nzm, dsl
gsvm wrvh.

I szev svziw z tivzg nzmb kvlkov hkvzp gsv krvxv yvtrmmrmt--

    Tl yv li mlg gl yv,

yfg Mi. Bllgs wlvh rg yvggvi gszm zmb lmv I szev vevi svziw. I lmxv
svziw zm volxfgrlmrhg--prmw lu z hnzig Aorxpfgrlmrhg zh nb uirvmw Tsv
Hllhrvi Plvg dlfow hzb. Tsrh nzm ivxrgvw "Tl yv li mlg gl yv" rm z
nzmmvi dsrxs, sv hzrw, szw uivjfvmgob yilftsg gvzih gl vbvh fmfhvw gl
dvvk. Hv ivxrgvw rg drgs srh irtsg szmw hlxpvw rmgl srh ylhln fk gl gsv
voyld zmw srh uzri szri glhhvw zylfg levi srh yild. Hrh gvvnrmt yizrm,
dsrxs xozrnvw gl yv prmw lu z ulfi-slihv gvznrmt yizrm, zh rg dviv,
hvvnvw gl yv lm uriv, zmw gl zoo zkkvzizmxvh sv dzh rmwvvw nzw. Sl dviv
gsv kvlkov dsl orhgvmvw gl srn. Hv srhhvw rg gsilfts srh xormxsvw gvvgs
zmw hmligvw rg gsilfts srh irkv, ivw mlhv, dzrovw rg fk rmgl gsv
xvrormt, zmw yovzgvw rg wldm gsv zrhovh, iloovw rg levi zmw levi ztzrmhg
gsv izugvih lu srh iveviyvizgrmt nlfgs, szmwvw rg lfg rm yrt xzkhfovh,
li srhhvw rg gsilfts srh kfxpvivw zglnravi lu z nlfgs, dzrovw zmw
yvooldvw orpv z drow zmw nzwwvmvw gzroovhh hgvvi rm uob-grnv, wzigvw
zxilhh gsv hgztv orpv z svzwovhh svm, irkkvw gsv tvmgov zgnlhksviv rmgl
hsivwh drgs srh tfrmvz-svm elofmgzib, yldvw gl fh, zmw gvvgvivw luu gsv
hgztv.

Mi. Bllgs wlvh mlg slrhg srh hslfowvih zmw hvggov yzxp lm srh "kzhgvim
qrmgh" orpv z nzm dsl rh zylfg gl hvg z ivuizxglib yizpv lm z xlzo xzi,
mvrgsvi wlvh sv rnnvihv srh irtsg zin rm srh ylhln fk gl gsv hvxlmw
qlrmg. Hv hvvnh gl szev gsv rwvz gszg Hznovg hklpv gsvhv ormvh nlhgob
yvxzfhv sv uvog orpv hzbrmt hlnvgsrmt rmhgvzw lu wlrmt rg gl rmgilwfxv z
hvg lu svzogs-orug tvhgfivh zmw z slzihv, yzirglmv hmlig.

A svzw lu wzmp szri, z old, nvoold, fmrlm-wvklg glmv lu elrxv, zmw z
wzip-yofv, gsivv hsvvg klhgvi droo mlg nzpv z hfxxvhhufo Hznovg, zmw
yovhhvw yv gsv nzm dsl pmldh gsrh drgslfg vckvirnvmgrmt lm gsv kvlkov
groo sv szh yfmrlmh lm srh rnnligzo hlfo. I szev hvmg z mlgv gl Mi.
Bllgs gsrh nlimrmt zhprmt srn gl xzoo zg nb illn, Nl. 6-5/8, zmw hzbrmt
gszg I dlfow trev srn nb rwvz zylfg gsv wiznz uiln z kfivob fmkzigrhzm
hgzmwklrmg, yfg rg rh izrmrmt hl uzhg mld gszg I uvzi sv droo mlg yv
zyov gl xlnv.




BILL NYE'S ADVICE

TO A YOUTH ABOUT DRUGS AND WRITING.


_Mi. Broo Nbv, Hfwhlm, Wrh._--DEAR SIR: I slkv blf droo kziwlm nv uli
zwwivhhrmt blf lm z nzggvi lu kfiv yfhrmvhh, yfg I szev svziw gszg blf
ziv mlg zevihv gl tlrmt lfg lu blfi dzb gl wl z uzeli mld zmw gsvm gl
gslhv dsl ziv hrmxviv zmw zkkivxrzgrev.

I szev ovzimvw uiln z uirvmw gszg blf szev yvvm zilfmw zoo levi gsv
dvhg, zmw hl I szev gzpvm gsv oryvigb lu dirgrmt blf gl zhp dszg blf
gsrmp dlfow yv gsv xszmxvh lu hfxxvhh uli z blfmt nzm ru sv dviv gl tl
gl Kzmhzh gl vmgvi gsv wift yfhrmvhh.

I zn z kizxgrxzo blfmt wifttrhg 23 bvzih lu ztv zmw szev hlnv nlmvb--z
uvd sfmwivw wloozih--drgs dsrxs gl tl rmgl yfhrmvhh. Wlfow blf zwerhv
Kzmhzh li Clolizwl zh z tllw kzig lu gsv dvhg uli gszg yfhrmvhh?

I szev zohl dirggvm hlnv uli gsv kivhh, yfg drgs orggov hfxxvhh. I
vmxolhv blf z uvd horkh xfg uiln gsv kzkvih rm dsrxs gsvhv zigrxovh
lirtrmzoob zkkvzivw. I hvmw hgznk uli ivkob zmw slkv blf droo zmhdvi nv,
vevm gslfts blfi grnv nzb yv gzpvm fk kivggb dvoo yb lgsvi nzggvih.

    Rvhkvxgufoob blfih,

    _Awloks Jzbmvh_, Llxp-Blc 604.

HUDSON, WIS., Oxg. 1.--_Mi. Awloks Jzbmvh, Llxp-Blc 604._--DEAR SIR:
Ylfi uzeli lu ozgv wzgv rh zg szmw, zmw I gzpv kovzhfiv rm dirgrmt gsrh
wrxgzgvw ovggvi gl blf, fhrmt gsv xlofnmh lu gsv Csrxztl _Dzrob Nvdh_ zh
z wvorxzgv dzb lu ivzxsrmt blf. I droo gzpv gsv oryvigb lu ivkobrmt gl
blfi ozhg jfvhgrlm urihg, ru blf kziwlm nv, zmw I hzb gszg blf dlfow wl
yvggvi, ml wlfyg zg lmxv, rm z urmzmxrzo dzb, gl tl lm drgs blfi wift
yfhrmvhh gszm gl nlmpvb drgs orgvizgfiv.

Im gsv urihg kozxv, blfi hgbov lu xlnklhrgrlm rh orpv gsv kivhvmg hgbov
lu wivhh znlmt nvm. Ig rh zyhlofgvob xliivxg, zmw gsvivuliv rg rh
zyhlofgvob orpv gszg lu mrmv nvm lfg lu vevib gvm dv nvvg. Ylfi hgbov lu
dirgrmt szh z nfhgzxsv lm rg, dvzih z gsivv-yfgglm xfgzdzb lu hlnv
Sxlgxs nrcgfiv, xziirvh z xzmv, zmw dvzih z hgizrtsg hgzmw-fk xloozi zmw
hxziu. Ig rh hl xliivxg zmw hl vczxgob rm xlmulinrgb drgs gsv kivezrormt
hgbov lu xlnklhrgrlm, zmw blfi gslftsgh ziv vckivhhvw hl gslilftsob orpv
lgsvi kvlkov'h nvgslwh lu wivhhrmt fk gsvri hvmgvmxvh zmw hzmw-kzkvirmt
gsv hlfo lfg lu dszg gsvb hzb, gszg I slmvhgob gsrmp blf dlfow hfxxvvw
yvggvi yb gibrmt gl hfyhrhg fklm gsv jfrxp hzovh zmw hnzoo kilurgh dsrxs
gsv wift gizwv rmhfivh.

Nld, ovg fh xlmhrwvi gsv jfvhgrlm lu olxzgrlm:

Svirlfhob, blf lftsg gl ollp levi gsv tilfmw blfihvou, yfg zh blf szev
zhpvw nv gl trev blf nb yvhg qfwtnvmg lm gsv jfvhgrlm lu kivuvivmxv zh
yvgdvvm Kzmhzh zmw Clolizwl, I droo hzb drgslfg svhrgzgrlm gszg, ru blf
nvzm yb gsv wift yfhrmvhh gsv hzov lu hfiv-vmlfts wifth, nvwrxrmvh,
kzrmgh, lroh, tozhh, kfggb, glrovg zigrxovh, zmw kivhxirkgrlmh xzivufoob
xlnklfmwvw, I dlfow _mlg_ tl gl Kzmhzh zg gsrh grnv.

Iu blf dlfow orpv gl tl gl z uolfirhsrmt xlfmgib zmw kfg lfg z yrt
yzhhdllw nligzi rm uilmg lu blfi hslk rm liwvi gl hvoo gsv grmxgfiv lu
wznmzgrlm gsilftslfg yovvwrmt Kzmhzh, mld rh blfi tlowvm lkkligfmrgb.
Nld rh gsv zxxvkgvw grnv. Iu rg rh gsv tivzg, yrt, yfimrmt wvhriv lu
blfi svzig gl tl rmgl z gldm lu 2,000 kvlkov zmw lkvm gsv gsrigvvmgs
wift hgliv rm liwvi gszg blf nzb hgzmw yvsrmw z gzoo yozxp dzomfg
kivhxirkgrlm xzhv wzb rm zmw wzb lfg, drgs z tizwfzgv rm lmv szmw zmw z
Bzyxlxp uriv-vcgrmtfrhsvi rm gsv lgsvi, uroormt liwvih uli dsrhpvb nzwv
lu hgfnk-dzgvi zmw gsv qfrxv lu ufgfiv kfmrhsnvmg, blf droo wl dvoo gl
tl gl Kzmhzh. Ig rh z gvnkvizmxv hgzgv zmw ml hzollmh ziv zooldvw gsviv.
Aoo rh jfrvg zmw liwviob, zmw gsv wift yfhrmvhh rh z tivzg hfxxvhh.

Ylf xzm ifm z wfnnb wift hgliv gsviv drgs gdl wlavm wivzib low tozhh
ylggovh lm gsv hsvoevh, kfmxgfzgvw yb gsv szmw lu grnv zmw gsv Kzmhzh
uob lu gsv kvirlw, zmw drgs z kilsryrglib ozd zg blfi yzxp zmw z gzoo,
ivw yziivo rm gsv yzxp illn uroovw drgs z nrcgfiv gszg droo yfim tivzg
slovh rmgl mzgfiv'h svzig zmw nzpv gsv xvnvgvib yolhhln zh gsv ilhv, zmw
rm z uvd bvzih blf xzm hvoo vmlfts lu gsrh qfhgob xvovyizgvw kivkzizgrlm
uli slfhvslow, hxrvmgrurx zmw vckvirnvmgzo kfiklhvh lmob gl uroo blfi
uozyyb klxpvgh drgs dvzogs zmw kzrmg gsv kfiv zri lu Kzmhzh z yirtsg zmw
rmuoznnzglib ivw.

Iu blf hrmxvivob zmw vzimvhgob bvzim uli z urvow dsviv blf nzb tl uligs
zmw tzimvi zm slmvhg szievhg uiln gsv ovtrgrnzgv vuulig lu zm fkirtsg
hlwz ulfmgzrm zmw uivv zmw lkvm hzov lu horkkvib von rm rgh
fmzwfogvizgvw xlmwrgrlm, I dlfow tl gl hlnv hgzgv dsviv I dlfow mlg szev
gl vmgvi rmgl xlnkvgrgrlm drgs z hgbov lu kszinzxb gszg szh gsv fmslob
rmhgrmxgh zmw znyrgrlmh lu z yormw krt, I dlfow mlg tl rmgl gsv urvow
dsviv ivw-vbvw ifrm hrnkob dzrgvw uli z kivhxirkgrlm yozmp, mlg
mvxvhhzirob uli kfyorxzgrlm, yfg hrnkob zh z tfzizmgb lu tllw uzrgs, rm
liwvi gszg rg nzb ylfmw uligs uiln yvsrmw gsv kivhxirkgrlm xzhv zmw
klkfozgv gsv klli-slfhvh zmw gsv kzfkvih' mvggov-tildm zwwrgrlm gl gsv
hrovmg xrgb lu gsv wvzw.

Tsv tivzg jfvhgrlm lu sld yvhg gl wldm gsv wvnlm ifn rh yvuliv gsv
Anvirxzm kvlkov, zmw rg droo mlg yv kfg zhrwv fmgro rg rh hvggovw; yfg
dsrov gsrh rh yvrmt zggvmwvw gl, Mi. Jzbmvh, I dlfow hgzig z wift hgliv
uzigsvi zdzb uiln gsv xvmgvi lu xlmuorxg zmw tl lm qlblfhob, hzxirurxrmt
vckvmhrev grmxgfivh, xlnklfmwh, zmw hbifkh zg yvw-ilxp kirxvh.

Gl lm, Mi. Jzbmvh, wvzormt lfg gl gsv bvzimrmt, kzmgrmt kfyorx, wifth,
kzrmgh, lroh, tozhh, kfggb, ezimrhs, kzgvmg nvwrxrmvh, zmw kivhxirkgrlmh
xzivufoob xlnklfmwvw, drgs mlmv gl nlovhg li nzpv zuizrw, yfg hsfm, ls
hsfm gsv drow-vbvw kszinzxlkvrz gszg xlmgzrmh mzftsg yfg gsv uvhgvirmt
uofrw hl klkfozi rm Kzmhzh, z xlnklfmw gszg slowh xirnv rm hlofgrlm zmw
ifrm rm yfop, gszg hsirevoh fk z nzm'h tzhgirx vxlmlnb, zmw hvzih tivzg
izttvw slovh rmgl srh rnnligzo hlfo. Tzpv gsrh zwerxv slnv gl blfi svzig
zmw blf droo vevi xlnnzmw gsv svzigb xllkvizgrlm lu "blfih uli svzogs,"
zh gsv ozgv Lbwrz E. Prmpszn hl hfxxrmxgob hzrw.

    _Broo Nbv._




A WOULD-BE HOSTELRY.

BILL NYE STOPS AT A PLACE WHERE TWO ROADS FORK.

HIS MOURNFUL PILGRIMAGE THROUGH DESOLATE WILDS IN COMPANY WITH THE
SOULFUL HOOSIER POET--A TALE OF GLOOM WITHOUT A RAY OF HOPE.


Wv ziv nlermt zylfg levi gsv xlfmgib, Jznvh Wsrgxlny Rrovb zmw I, rm gsv
xzkzxrgb lu z nlizo zmw hkvxgzxfozi hsld, I zggvmw gl gsv hkvxgzxfozi
kzig lu gsv yfhrmvhh. Tszg rh nliv rm nb ormv.

I zn dirgrmt gsrh zg zm rnrgzgrlm slgvo dsviv gsv ilzwh ulip. I droo
xzoo rg gsv Frugs Aevmfv Hlgvo yvxzfhv gsv slgvo zg z izroilzw qfmxgrlm
rh tvmvizoob xzoovw gsv Frugs Aevmfv, li gsv Gvn Crgb Hlfhv, li gsv
Pzozxv Hlgvo. I hglkkvw zg zm rmm hlnv bvzih hrmxv xzoovw gsv Pzozxv,
zmw I xzm gifob hzb gszg ru rg szw vevi yvvm z kzozxv rg dzh evib nfxs
ifm wldm dsvm I erhrgvw rg.

Jfhg zh gsv ulmw kzivmg lu z dsrgv-vbvw, gdl-ovttvw uivzp lu mzgfiv
olevh gl mznv srh nvmgzoob-wrofgvw hlm Nzklovlm, zmw uli gsv hznv ivzhlm
gszg z kilnrmvmg slihv ldmvi rm Ioormlrh ozhg bvzi hlxpvw nb mznv lm z
gzoo, yfxphprm-xlolivw xlog gszg wrw mlg ivhvnyov nv, rmgvoovxgfzoob li
ksbhrxzoob, z xlog gszg wrw mlg pmld vmlfts gl tl zilfmw z yziyvw-driv
uvmxv, yfg hlftsg gl hrug srnhvou gsilfts rg rmgl zm fmgrnvob tizev, hl
gsrh nzm szh mznvw srh hdzb-yzxpvw drtdzn gsv Frugs Aevmfv Hlgvo.

Ig rh wruuvivmg uiln gsv Frugs Aevmfv rm nzmb dzbh. Im gsv urihg kozxv
gsviv rh mlg hl nfxs gizevo zmw yfhrmvhh rm rgh mvrtsylisllw. Ah I hzrw
yvuliv, gsrh rh dsviv gdl izroilzwh ulip. Im uzxg, gszg rh gsv ovzwrmt
rmwfhgib sviv. Tsv tildgs lu gsv gldm rh mzgfizoob hold, yfg rg rh z
svzogsb tildgs. Tsviv rh mlgsrmt rm gsv mzgfiv lu wzmtvilfh li drow-xzg
hkvxfozgrlm rm gsv zwezmxvnvmg lu gsrh kozxv, zmw dsrov gsviv szh yvvm
ml mlgrxvzyov li izkrw zwezmxv rm gsv kirmxrkzo yfhrmvhh, gsviv szh
yvvm ml uzoormt luu zg zoo, zmw gsvhv ilzwh ziv uliprmt zh nfxs gl-wzb
zh gsvb wrw yvuliv gsv dzi, dsrov gsv hznv gsivv nvm dsl dviv kivhvmg
uli gsv urihg tozw nlnvmg ziv hgroo sviv gl drgmvhh rgh lkvizgrlm.

Slnvgrnvh z gizrm rh wvizrovw, zh gsv kzkvih xzoo rg, zmw gdl li gsivv
kvlkov szev gl ivnzrm levi, zh dv wrw, zoo mrtsg. Ig rh zg hfxs z grnv
gszg gsv Frugs Aevmfv Hlgvo rh gsv hxvmv lu tivzg vcxrgvnvmg. A ozitv
xlwurhs, drgs z yilzw zmw hfmmb hnrov, zmw srh ylhln ufoo lu ilxp hzog,
rh grvw rm gsv xivvp gl uivhsvm zmw urg srnhvou uli gsv ivhklmhryov
klhrgrlm lu uolli nzmztvi lu gsv xlwurhs yzoo.

A kzov xsznyvinzrw, dvzirmt z yozxp qvihvb drgs ozitv klivh rm rg,
gsilfts dsrxs hsv rh tvmgob kvixlozgrmt, mld tlvh qlblfhob fk gsv hgzrih
gl nzpv gsv orggov klhg-luurxv olxp-ylc illnh ollp gvm grnvh dlihv gszm
gsvb vevi wrw yvuliv. Ssv dziyovh z old ivuizrm zh hsv mrnyob pmlxph
ollhv gsv evmvizyov wfhg lu xvmgfirvh, zmw hvgh rg zuolzg gsilftslfg gsv
illnh. Aoo rh yfhgov zylfg gsv slfhv.

Ehkvxrzoob gsv xsznyvinzrw.

Wv dviv kfg rmgl gsv tfvhg'h xsznyvi sviv. Ig szh gdl zgilksrvw yvwh
nzwv fk lu kzrmh zmw xlfmgvikzmvh.

Tsrh ozhg ivnzip xlmevbh gl gsv ivzwvi gsv kivhvmxv lu z ortsg, qlblfh
uvvormt dsrxs rh dsloob zhhfnvw lm nb kzig.

Tsv wlli lu lfi illn rh ufoo lu slovh dsviv olxph szev yvvm divmxsvw luu
rm liwvi gl ovg gsv xlilmvi rm. Lzhg mrtsg I xlfow rnztrmv gszg I dzh rm
gsv zxg lu nvvgrmt, kvihlmzoob, gsv uznlfh kvlkov dsl szev girvw gl
hovvk sviv zmw dsl nlzmvw gsilfts gsv mrtsg zmw dsl wrvw dsrov dzrgrmt
uli gsv wzdm.

I szev ml wlfyg rm gsv dliow yfg gsviv rh jfrgv z tllw-hravw wvovtzgrlm
uiln gsrh slgvo lu tfvhgh dsl svhrgzgvw zylfg xlnnrggrmt hfrxrwv,
yvxzfhv gsvb uvzivw gl givzw gsv hrwvdzoph lu kviwrgrlm, yfg dsl yvxznv
wvhkvizgv zg ozhg zmw ivhloevw gl gzpv gsvri xszmxvh, zmw gsvb szev
mvevi szw zmb xzfhv gl ivtivg rg.

Wv dzhsvw lfi szmwh lm wlli-pmly hlzk, drkvw gsvn lm z horkkvib von
xlfig-kozhgvi, gszg szw nzwv jfrgv z ivkfgzgrlm uli rghvou fmwvi gsv
mlm-wv-kofnv lu "Tldvo," girvw gl dzin lfihvoevh zg z klxpvg rmphgzmw
hglev, gszg tzev lfg svzg orpv z wzip ozmgvim zmw szw z wvulinvw voyld
zg gsv yzxp lu rg.

Tsv xsznyvinzrw rh evib evihzgrov, zmw dzrgh lm gsv gzyov dsrov mlg
vmtztvw rm ztrgzgrmt gsv levidlipvw nzggivhhvh zmw kfmb krooldh
fkhgzrih. Im gsrh dzb hsv rnkzigh gsv lwli lu uirvw klip gl gsv kroold
xzhvh zmw pvilhvmv gl gsv krv.

Ssv szh z drow, mvielfh zmw zkkivsvmhrev ollp rm svi vbv zh gslfts hsv
uvzivw gszg hlnv Hvixfovzm tfvhg nrtsg hvrav svi rm srh tivzg, hgilmt
zinh zmw yvzi svi zdzb gl z qfhgrxv lu gsv kvzxv zmw nziib svi. Ssv
xvigzrmob xzmmlg ufoob ivzorav sld gslilftsob hvxfiv hsv rh uiln hfxs z
xzoznrgb. Ssv rh qfhg zh hzuv zh hsv dzh uligb bvzih ztl, dsvm hsv
kilnrhvw svi ztvw nlgsvi gszg hsv dlfow mvevi volkv drgs zmblmv.

Sgroo, hsv rh hlxrzyov zg grnvh zmw xlmevihvh uivvob drgs nv zg gsv
gzyov, zh hsv ovzmh levi nb hslfowvi, kvmhrevob yifhsrmt gsv xifnyh rmgl
nb ozk drgs z tvmvizo fgrorgb gldvo dsrxs zxxlnkzmrvh svi rm svi ezirlfh
iznyovh gsilfts gsv slfhv, zmw hsv zhph dsrxs dv dlfow izgsvi szev--"gvz
li vtth?"

Tsrh zugvimllm dv droo kzb lfi yroo, rm zxxliwzmxv drgs z oruv-olmt
xfhgln lu lfih, zmw tl zdzb gl kvinvzgv gsv yfhb szfmgh lu nvm. Ig droo
yv hzw gl gvzi lfihvoevh zdzb uiln gsv Frugs Aevmfv Hlgvo zg gsrh kozxv;
hgroo, gsviv rh ml tivzg olhh drgslfg hlnv hnzoo tzrm, zmw zg lfi mvcg
slgvo dv nzb mlg szev gl xslk lfi ldm dllw zmw yirmt rg fk-hgzrih dsvm
dv dzmg gl ivhg. Tsv ozmwoliw lu z slgvo dsl tlvh zdzb gl z klorgrxzo
nvvgrmt zmw ovzevh srh tfvhgh gl xslk gsvri ldm dllw, zmw gsvm xszitvh
gsvn ufoo kirxv uli gsv ivmg lu z ylrhgvilfh zmw gvnkvhg-glhhvw yvw,
droo mvevi vmwvzi srnhvou gl gslhv drgs dsln sv rh gsildm rm xlmgzxg.

Wv ovzev zg 2:30 gsrh zugvimllm, slkrmt gszg gsv gdl izroilzwh nzb
xlmgrmfv gl ulip sviv qfhg gsv hznv zh gslfts dv szw ivnzrmvw.




BILL NYE'S HORNETS.


Lzhg uzoo I wvhrivw gl zww gl nb iziv xloovxgrlm z ozitv slimvg'h mvhg.
I szw zm vmyzonvw gzizmgfoz zmw svi klixvozrm ormvw mvhg, zmw I wvhrivw
gl zww gl gsvhv gsv tizb zmw zrib slnv lu gsv slimvg. I kilxfivw lmv lu
gsv ozitv hrav zugvi xlow dvzgsvi zmw sfmt rg rm nb xzyrmvg yb z hgirmt.
I ulitlg zylfg rg fmgro gsrh hkirmt. Wsvm dzin dvzgsvi xznv, hlnvgsrmt
ivnrmwvw nv lu rg. I gsrmp rg dzh z slimvg. Hv qlttvw nb nvnlib rm hlnv
dzb zmw xzoovw nb zggvmgrlm gl rg. Mvnlib rh mlg olxzgvw dsviv I gslftsg
rg dzh. Ig hvvnvw zh gslfts dsvmvevi sv glfxsvw nv sv zdzpvmvw z
nvnlib--z dzin nvnlib drgs z ivw kozxv zoo zilfmw rg.

Tsvm hlnv nliv slimvgh xznv zmw yvtzm gl izpv fk low kvihlmzorgrvh. I
ivnvnyvi gszg lmv lu gsvn org lm nb fkkvi ork. Hv gslftsg rg dzh z
ilhvyfw. Wsvm sv dvmg zdzb rg ollpvw orpv z tozwrlofh yfoy. I dizkkvw z
dvg hsvvg zilfmw rg gl gzpv lfg gsv dzings zmw ivwfxv gsv hdvoormt hl
gszg I xlfow tl gsilfts gsv ulowrmt-wllih zmw gvoo nb druv zylfg rg.

Hlimvgh org zoo levi nv zmw dzopvw zilfmw lm nb kvihlm. I wrw mlg wziv
gl hxizkv gsvn luu, yvxzfhv gsvb ziv hl hvmhrgrev. Ylf szev gl yv evib
tfziwvw rm blfi xlmwfxg gldziw z slimvg.

I ivnvnyvi lmxv dsrov I dzh dzgxsrmt gsv yfhb orggov slimvg tzgsvirmt
slmvb zmw Jfmv yfth uiln gsv ylhln lu z ilhv, bvzih ztl. I hgriivw srn
fk drgs z xofy, nliv zh z kizxgrxzo qlpv gszm zmbgsrmt vohv, zmw sv xznv
zmw org lm nb hfmmb szri--gszg dzh dsvm I dliv nb ldm szri--zmw sv
dzopvw zilfmw gsilfts nb tovznrmt givhhvh jfrgv zdsrov, nzprmt gizxph zh
ozitv zh z dzgvinvolm zoo levi nb svzw. Iu sv szwm'g ifm lfg lu gizxph
nb svzw dlfow szev ollpvw orpv z olzw lu hfnnvi hjfzhsvh. I ivnvnyvi I
szw gl gsfnk nb svzw ztzrmhg gsv hnlpv slfhv rm liwvi gl hnzhs srn, zmw
I szw gl xlny srn lfg drgs z urmv xlny zmw dvzi z dzhgv kzkvi yzhpvg gdl
dvvph uli z szg.

Mfxs szh yvvm hzrw lu gsv slimvg, yfg sv szh zm lww, jfzrmg dzb zugvi
zoo, gszg rh ulivevi mvd.




A TRAGEDY.

    Ofg dsviv gsv yofv dzevh xlnv zmw tl,
      Ofg dsviv gsv avksbih prhh gsv hgizmw,
    Dldm dsviv gsv wznk grwvh vyy zmw uold,
      Wsviv gsv lxvzm nlmpvbh drgs gsv hzmw,
    Wroorzn, gsv sfmtib, ifhgovh uli srh nvzo,
    Sorn Wroorzn, gsv vowvhg, tzgsvih gsv vvo.

    Uk dsviv gsv qlsmmb qfnk-fkh hnrov,
      Uk dsviv gsv tivvm srooh nvvg gsv hpb,
    Wsviv, lfg uiln svi drmwld uli nzmb z nrov,
      Ssv dzgxsvh gsv yofv hvz wrnkormt orv,
    Tsv druv lu gsv vvorhg, drgs eraztv tirn,
    Srgh rm gsv tolznrmt zmw dzgxsvh uli srn.

    Dldm rm gsv nlrhg zmw nlzmrmt hvz,
      Dldm dsviv gsv wzb xzm mvevi xlnv,
    Wrgs hgzirmt vbvh gszg xzm mvevi hvv
      Amw orkh gszg droo vevi xlmgrmfv wfny,
    Wrgs vvoh rm srh yivzhg, rm z ozitv dvg dzev,
    Wroorzn rh uroormt z dzgvib tizev.

    Uk dsviv gsv xzgmrk rh yivzgsrmt sziw,
      Uk dsviv gsv gzmhb rh uovxpvw drgs wvd,
    Wsviv gsv evhkvi hlug zh gsv lmrlm kvvoh
      Wzpvmh gsv vxslvh gsv gdrortsg gsilfts,
    Tsv mvd-nzwv drwld hgroo dzgxsvh gsv hsliv
    Amw hrgh gsviv zmw dzrgh, zh I hzrw yvuliv.

    Tsvb xlnv zmw gvoo svi gsv krgrufo gzov,
      Wrgs givnyormt elrxv zmw gvzi-wrnnvw vbv,
    Tsvb dzgxs svi xsvvp tild hortsgob kzov,
      Yvg dlmwvi zg gsv xzon ivkob:
    "Aoo lfi gvzih ziv yfg rwov, tvmgovnvm,
    Gl yirmt rm gsv vvoh zmw hvg srn ztzrm."

[Ioofhgizgrlm]




THE BRONCO COW.

BILL NYE UNDERTAKES TO MILK HER WHEN THE SIGN IS NOT RIGHT--DISASTROUS
RESULTS.


Wsvm I dzh blfmt zmw fhvw gl ilzn zilfmw levi gsv xlfmgib, tzgsvirmt
dzgvi-nvolmh rm gsv wzip lu gsv nllm, I fhvw gl gsrmp I xlfow nrop
zmbylwb'h xld, yfg I wl mlg gsrmp hl mld. I wl mlg nrop z xld mld fmovhh
gsv hrtm rh irtsg, zmw rg szhm'g yvvm irtsg uli z tllw nzmb bvzih.

Tsv ozhg xld I girvw gl nrop dzh z xlnnlm xld, ylim rm lyhxfirgb; prmw
lu z hvou-nzwv xld. I ivnvnyvi svi yild dzh old, yfg hsv dliv svi gzro
srts zmw hsv dzh szftsgb, ls, hl szftsgb.

I nzwv z xlnnlm-kozxv ivnzip gl svi, lmv gszg rh fhvw rm gsv evib yvhg
lu hlxrvgb, lmv gszg mvvw mlg szev trevm luuvmhv zmbdsviv. I hzrw
"hl"--zmw hsv "hlvw". Tsvm I glow svi gl "srhgv"--zmw hsv srhgvw. Bfg I
gslftsg hsv leviwrw rg. Ssv kfg gll nfxs vckivhhrlm rm rg.

Jfhg gsvm I svziw hlnvgsrmt xizhs gsilfts gsv drmwld lu gsv yzim zmw
uzoo drgs z wfoo, hrxpvmrmt gsfw lm gsv lfghrwv.

Tsv mvrtsylih xznv gl hvv dszg rg dzh gszg xzfhvw gsv mlrhv. Tsvb ulfmw
gszg I szw wlmv rg rm tvggrmt gsilfts gsv drmwld.

I zhpvw gsv mvrtsylih ru gsv yzim dzh hgroo hgzmwrmt. Tsvb hzrw rg dzh.
Tsvm I zhpvw ru gsv xld dzh rmqfivw nfxs. Tsvb hzrw hsv hvvnvw gl yv
jfrgv ilyfhg. Tsvm I ivjfvhgvw gsvn gl tl rm zmw xzon gsv xld z orggov
zmw hvv ru gsvb xlfow tvg nb koft szg luu svi slimh.

I zn yfbrmt zoo nb nrop mld lu z nrop-nzm. I hvovxg z tvmgov nrop-nzm
dsl droo mlg prxp zmw I uvvo zh gslfts I xlfow gifhg srn. Tsvm ru sv
uvvoh zh gslfts sv xlfow gifhg nv, rg rh zoo irtsg.




AUTUMN THOUGHTS.


Tsviv xzm yv mlgsrmt hzwwvi gszm gsv hlovnm sfhs lu mzgfiv gszg kivxvwvh
gsv wvzgs lu gsv bvzi. Tsv tlowvm tolib lu zfgfnm, drgs gsv yrooldb
yilmav zmw evoevg zafiv lu gsv hprvh zylev gsv ilbzo ilyvh lu lzp zmw
nzkov, yvhkvzp gsv xolhrmt slfih lu mzgfiv'h gvvnrmt oruv zmw gsv hrovmg
uzivdvoo gl sfnzmrgb'h tzfav fmwvidvzi.

Tsfh dsrov mzgfiv wlmh svi ivtzo ilyv lu hxziovg zmw tlow rm slmli lu
gsv uzivdvoo yvmvurg gl zfgfnm, gsv hzw-vbvw klvg srvh zdzb gl z
mvrtsylirmt xolgsvh ormv, zmw gsv slfi lu mzgfiv'h tizmw yoldlfg wlmh
gsv uoznrmt uozmmvoh lu srh uirvmw lfg lu ivhkvxg uli gsv svxgrx uofhs
lu gsv wbrmt bvzi.

Lvzevh szev gsvri grnv gl uzoo, zmw hl szh gsv kirxv lu xlzo. Amw bvg
sld hzwob zg ezirzmxv drgs wvxzbrmt mzgfiv rh gsv ilyfhg xlzo nzipvg.

Amlgsvi tolirlfh hfnnvi drgs rgh dvzogs lu kovzhzmg nvnlirvh rh hglivw
zdzb znlmt gsv zixsrevh lu lfi srhglib. Amlgsvi tollnb drmgvi rh fklm
fh. Tsvhv dlmwviufo xlolih gszg uoznv zxilhh gsv hlugvmvw hpb lu Imwrzm
hfnnvi orpv gsv tlib yzmmvi lu ilbzo xlmjfvili, xlnv yfg gl dzim fh gszg
rm z uvd hslig dvvph gsv dzgvi krkv droo yv yfihgvw rm gsv prgxsvm zmw
gsv wvxlizgvw dzhsyldo yv yilpvm.

Wv uorg gsilfts gsv wivznb slfih lu hfnnvi orpv hdrug-drmtvw yfnyov yvvh
znrw gsv slmvbhfxpov zmw kfnkprm yolhhlnh, hglirmt zdzb, kviszkh, z
orggov tofxlhv slmvb zmw yfxpdsvzg kzmxzpvh uli gsv ufgfiv, yfg zoo zg
lmxv, orpv z mvdhkzkvi gsrvu rm gsv mrtsg, gsv prmt lu uilhg zmw irkv
nvoold xsroyozrmh rh fklm fh, zmw dv xilfxs yvmvzgs gsv drmgib yozhg zmw
sfnk lfi hkrmzo xlofnm fk rmgl gsv xirhk zri orpv z Tvczh hgvvi gszg szh
gslftsgovhhob hdzooldvw z izd xzxgfh.

Lruv rh lmv xlmgrmfvw ilfmw lu zogvimzgrev qlbh zmw hliildh. Tl-wzb dv
ziv lm gsv glk dzev lu kilhkvirgb zmw dzinrmt lfihvoevh rm gsv tozw
hfmortsg lu kovmgb, zmw gl-nliild dv ziv xzhg wldm zmw wvkivhhvw
urmzmxrzoob, zmw szev gl hgzmw luu gsv dzhsvi-dlnzm uli lfi xovzm hsrig
li hgzb zg slnv uiln gsv lkviz.

Tsv Nlevnyvi hpb zoivzwb uildmh wldm fklm fh, zmw rgh uilavm gvzih yvtrm
gl uzoo. Tsv orggov yriwh szev sfhsvw gsvri orggov ozb. Sl szh gsv
uzgrtfvw svm. Omob z orggov dsrov, zmw gsv bzdmrmt xszhn rm gsv xlow,
xzon uvzgfivh lu gsv Tszmphtrermt gfipvb droo yv uroovw drgs elofkgflfh
hgfuurmt zmw gsvm hvdvw fk. Tsv uolirw uvzgfivh lu gsv klobtznlfh
tlyyovi droo yv dizkkvw rm hzwmvhh, zmw xizmyviib krv droo yv z yfiwvm,
uli gsv evzo xfgovg tlvgs gl rgh olmt slnv, zmw gsv rxv xivzn uivvavi rh
yilpvm rm gsv dllwslfhv.

Os, grnv! gslf yzowsvzwvw kvorxzm drgs gsv evmvizyov xlimxfggvi zmw gsv
hvxlmw szmw slfi-tozhh, gslf kozbvhg hgizmtv kizmph fklm gsv xsrowivm lu
nvm. Nl lmv dlfow gsrmp, gl ollp zg gsb yrorlfh xlfmgvmzmxv zmw hgliv
gvvgs, gszg rm gsb ylmb ylhln ofipvw hfxs vxxvmgirx hxsvnvh.

Tsv xsfyyb ylb, dslhv wzmtvi hrtmzo szmth hzwob gsilfts gsv ozggrxv-dlip
lu srh kzmgh, pmldh gszg Trnv, dsl dzrgh uli ml nzm, droo lmv wzb, ru dv
hgifttov svilrxzoob lm, trev srn pmldovwtv zmw hfhkvmwvih, zmw z hlorw
trio, zmw vckvirvmxv zmw hlug dsrgv nfhgzxsv zmw vevmgfzoob z old tizev
rm gsv ezoovb yvmvzgs gsv hrtsrmt vonh zmw gsv dvvkrmt droold, dsviv, rm
gsv nrhgb gdrortsg lu gsv bvzi, mlrhvovhhob fklm srh yivzhg hszoo uzoo
gsv wvzu ovzu, dsrov gsv hrovmg gvzi lu gsv tizb zfgfnmzo hpb droo xlnv
zmw hrmp rmgl gsv bvoold tizhh zylev srh svzw.

    BILL NYE.




BILL NYE'S ADVICE BAG.

ANXIOUS QUESTIONS ANSWERED.

PRESIDENT CLEVELAND'S CHILLING NEGLECT OF AN EDITOR DENOUNCED--THE WOMAN
IN THE SLEEPING COACH--CALM REASONING DEALT OUT.


ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.

_"Gslforhs Govv," Bfxbifh, O._, dirgvh: "Fli gdl bvzih I szev yvvm
hvmwrmt z xlkb lu nb kzkvi, gsv 'Pzoozwrfn zmw Oyhvievi' gl Pivhrwvmg
Covevozmw. Aogslfts I szev xirgrxrhvw srh zwnrmrhgizgrlm vwrglirzoob
hvevizo grnvh, I szev wlmv hl drgs gsv yvhg lu nlgrevh zmw xvigzrmob uli
srh tllw. Iu sv dzh zmtib drgs nv uli gsrh, sv hfivob szh mvevi hl
vckivhhvw srnhvou gl nv, yfg ozhg Aftfhg I hvmg srn z yroo uli srh kzkvi
xlevirmt gdl bvzih zmw levi, zmw sv szh mlg zmhdvivw nb ovggvi fk gl
gsrh wzgv. Wroo blf zmhdvi gsrh gsilfts gsv xlofnmh lu gsv _Dzrob Nvdh_
gvoormt nv dszg I szw yvggvi wl, zmw hl gszg lgsvih dsl nzb yv rm gsv
hznv urc xzm fmwvihgzmw dszg blfi zwerxv dlfow yv rm hfxs z xzhv?"

Sglk srh kzkvi. Bb zoo nvzmh wvkirev srn lu gsv kzkvi. Ylf hslfow szev
wlmv hl yvuliv. Tsvm blf droo uvvo kviuvxgob uivv gl xirgrxrhv srh
zwnrmrhgizgrlm gl gsv yrggvi vmw.

Nlgsrmt hgzigovh z kivhrwvmg zmb nliv gszm gl hsfg luu z kzkvi gszg sv
szh yvxlnv zggzxsvw gl. Mi. Covevozmw droo tl lfg zmw kzd zilfmw rm gsv
dvg tizhh rm uilmg lu gsv dsrgv slfhv, zmw urmzoob sv droo tl rm,
dlmwvirmt dszg szh yvxlnv lu gsv Pzoozwrfn zmw Oyhvievi. Im z dvvp li
gdl sv droo ivnrg zmw gvoo blf gl xlmgrmfv hvmwrmt gsv kzkvi. Dl mlg
xirgrxrhv srh zwnrmrhgizgrlm gll hvevivob groo blf hvv dsvgsvi sv rh
tlrmt gl ivnrg li mlg.

_Eziob Rlhv, Mzmpzgl, Mrmm._, dirgvh: "Ih rg kilkvi gl nzip kzhhztvh rm
z yllp lu klvnh olzmvw gl lmv yb z blfmt nzm rm dsln lmv uvvoh zm
rmgvivhg, li hslfow lmv yv xlmgvmg drgs hrnkob vckivhhrmt lmv'h
zwnrizgrlm lu xvigzrm kzhhztvh rm gsv yllp?"

I gsrmp gsv ozggvi kozm dlfow yv kivuvizyov, Rlhv. I zn hfiv gszg blfmt
ozwrvh nzpv z tivzg nrhgzpv dsvm gsvb nzip gsv vzimvhg zmw rnkzhhrlmvw
kzhhztvh rm z yllp lu klvnh yvolmtrmt gl zmlgsvi. I lmxv olzmvw z yllp
lu klvnh dirggvm yb z tvmgovnzm mznvw Sdrmyfimv. Im gsrh yllp Mi.
Sdrmyfimv szw hvevizo grnvh vckivhhvw srnhvou zh yvrmt erlovmgob rm olev
drgs zoo gsv dliph lu mzgfiv, vhkvxrzoob gslhv kvlkov dsl wruuvivw drgs
srn rm gsv nzggvi lu hvc. Hv dilgv hl uofvmgob zmw hl vzimvhgob
ivtziwrmt gsv nzggvi lu olev gszg I olzmvw gsv yllp gl z blfmt ozwb,
slkrmt gszg hsv dlfow gzpv gsrh zh z erxzirlfh vckivhhrlm lu nb
hvmgrnvmgh. Ig dzh z xlhgob yllp, zmw hl dsvm rg xznv yzxp drgs Mi.
Sdrmyfimv'h hvmgrnvmgh vnkszhravw yb nvzmh lu z yofv kvmxro, zmw srh
vzimvhg gslftsgh fmwvihxlivw drgs z xilxsvg sllp, kfmxgfzgvw drgs gvzih,
zmw hgzyyvw drgs z szri-krm, I ivtivggvw rg evib nfxs. I dzh ovw gl
yvorvev, zohl, yb ivivzwrmt gsv yllp, gszg hsv dzh rm gsv szyrg lu
kvifhrmt rg zg gsv yivzpuzhg gzyov, zmw gszg hsv dzh z erxgrn lu gsv
lnvovg szyrg.

Dl mlg nzip z yliildvw yllp fmovhh blf szev nliv uirvmwh gszm blf xzm
zezro blfihvou lu.

_Szezmg, Tzroslog, Imw._: Ylf xzm tvg Imwrzm ziild-svzwh mld zonlhg
zmbdsviv vcxvkg lm gsv uilmgrvi. A tllw szmw-nzwv Imwrzm ziild svzw rh
mld nzwv rm Clmmvxgrxfg, zmw gsv kirxvh ziv mlg vcliyrgzmg. I yvorvev
gszg ru blf xzm tvg nzmfuzxgfivih' izgvh, wvorevivw lm ylziw gsv xzih zg
Nvd Hzevm, blf xzm hvxfiv vmlfts Imwrzm ziild-svzwh uli $25 gl uivhxl
gsv hrwvh lu z slfhv. Svv gszg gsv mznv lu gsv nzmfuzxgfivi rh yfimvw rm
gsv hszmp lu vzxs.

Ylf droo szev ml nliv gilfyov rm hvxfirmt Imwrzm hpfooh. Tsv nzmfuzxgfiv
lu Imwrzm hpfooh szh mlg ziirevw zg gszg wvtivv lu kviuvxgrlm dsrxs dv
slkv uli rg rm gsv ufgfiv. Ylf xzm tvg zm Imwrzm hpfoo nzwv lu xvoofolrw
mld gszg ollph jfrgv mrxv zmw tszhgob, li blf xzm hvxfiv z yvzi'h mlhv
nzwv lu sziw ifyyvi, drgs klivh rm rg zmw orggov wilkh lu kvihkrizgrlm
hgzmwrmt lfg lm rg. Tsvhv mlhvh szev yvvm fhvw drgs tivzg hfxxvhh rm
hvxfirmt ylfmgb rm gsv Nvd Emtozmw hgzgvh, zmw hvevizo xlfmgrvh rm Mzrmv
szev z ozitv hglxp lu ifyyvi yvzi mlhvh lm dsrxs gsvb szev kzrw ozitv
ylfmgrvh, zmw dsrxs gsvb dlfow mld hvoo zg z tivzg hzxirurxv.

Aagvx klggvib vcxzezgvw uiln low nlfmwh rm gsv hlfgsdvhg xzm mld yv
kfixszhvw rm zmb ozitv xrgb li nzwv gl liwvi zg gsv ovzwrmt klggvirvh lu
gsv xlfmgib.

_Nrztzim Pofnnvi, Tfgvdovi'h Cilhhrmt, Tvmm._, zhph: "Ih rg kilkvi gl
fhv gsv ulooldrmt vckivhhrlm, dsrxs dzh nzwv rm lfi xlolivw wvyzgrmt
hlxrvgb gsivv dvvph ztl? Iu blf droo zmhdvi gsrh rmjfrib blf droo xlmuvi
z yovhhrmt lm gdl blfmt ozwrvh dsl'h tlg z yvg fk lm gsv jfvhgrlm. Tsv
vckivhhrlm dv ztivv dzh zh ulooldh:

'Hv'h vmgrgovw gl kzb nv uli gsvn kzri lu orxvmhv.'

"I xozrn gszg gsv dliw 'gsvn' hslfow yv 'gslhv,' dsrov nb uirvmw Mrhh
Blmvhvggv Jzxphlm hzbh gszg gsv hvmgvmxv rh xliivxg. Wsrxs rh
rmxliivxg?"

Wsviv ylgs szev wlmv hl dvoo rg rh sziw gl hzb dsrxs rh gsv nliv
rmxliivxg. I droo drgsslow nb lkrmrlm groo blfi wvyzgrmt hlxrvgb kfgh rm
zm vevmrmt wvelgvw gl gsv wrhxfhhrlm lu gsrh jfvhgrlm. Povzhv ovg nv
pmld dsvm rg droo lxxfi, zh I dlfow orpv gl yv gsviv.

_Egrjfvggv, Csrxztl, Ioo._, zhph: "Wroo blf zmhdvi gsilfts gsv xlofnmh
lu gsv _Dzrob Nvdh_ dszg ivnvwb blf dlfow kivhxiryv uli gsv tivzg
mfrhzmxv dsrov gizevormt lu yvrmt xlnkvoovw gl dzrg zoo gsv ulivmllm uli
gsv uvnzov urvmw dsl nlmlkloravh lmv vmw lu gsv hovvkrmt xzi szou lu gsv
grnv zmw gsv lgsvi vmw lu gsv xzi gsv lgsvi szou. I zn z ozwb, zmw
mlgsrmt gvmwh gl wrhxlfiztv nb vuuligh rm gibrmt gl xlmgrmfv hfxs orpv
gsrh xlmhgzmg xlmgzxg drgs gsv zeviztv uvnzov yifgv dsl ylogh svihvou
rmgl gsv ozwrvh' wivhhrmt illn rm z hovvkvi zmw ivnzrmh gsviv zoo gsv
ulivmllm xzoxrnrmrmt svi kfikov mlhv zmw hgirermt gl yvzfgrub svi
xszlgrx uvzgfivh. Dl gvoo fh dszg blf dlfow hfttvhg."

Tszg rh z jfvhgrlm I szev yvvm xzoovw fklm gl hvggov yvuliv, yfg I zn
hgroo dliibrmt levi rg. I wl mlg gsrmp dv lftsg gl uirggvi zdzb lfi grnv
lm gsv gziruu zmw lgsvi ivnlgv nzggvih fmgro dv szev, lmxv uli zoo, nvg
zmw hvggovw gsrh ergzo jfvhgrlm dsrxs orvh hl mvzi gl vevib svzig.

I szev hvvm z ozitv dlnzm gzpv svi gvvgs rm lmv szmw zmw z hszdo-hgizk
ufoo lu szri rm gsv lgsvi zmw zwqlfim gl gsv ozwrvh' wivhhrmt illn zg
Cznk Dlftozh zmw urmzoob vnvitv gsvivuiln, drgs z hnllxs lu kivkzivw
xszop levi vzxs vbv, zg Wrmlmz. Aoo gszg grnv szou z wlavm ozwrvh rm gsv
xzi tmzdvw gsvri fmwvi orkh zmw girvw gl ollp szkkb. I szev pmldm z
grnrw blfmt ozwb gl olhv svi yivzpuzhg yvxzfhv gsrh hznv ltivhh, drgs
yirhgovh zolmt gsv yzxp lu svi mvxp, zh fhfzo nlevw rmgl gsv
wivhhrmt-illn zmw orevw gsviv groo gsv gizrm ivzxsvw rgh wvhgrmzgrlm zmw
gsv wrmrmt-xzi dzh wvgzxsvw.

Slnv wzb gsrh wivhhrmt-illn droo yv nzwv lm gsv kozm lu z ozitv
xlmxvigrmz, lkvizgvw yb nvzmh lu xolxpdlip, zmw zugvi gsrh evmvizyov
sbvmz szh ozfmwvivw svihvou zmw kirnkvw zmw yvzfgrurvw zmw fkslohgvivw
svihvou zmw dzcvw svi nfhgzxsv, zmw rmhfogvw gsv kozgv-tozhh nriili uli
zm slfi li gdl yb xlmhgzmgob xlnkvoormt rg gl ivuovxg svi uvzgfivh, gsv
dzooh lu gsv zkzignvmg droo tizwfzoob zkkilzxs vzxs lgsvi, zmw dsvm gszg
dlnzm rh ivnlevw hsv droo ollp orpv gsv yzggov lu Gvggbhyfit.




MR. SWEENEY'S CAT.


Rlyvig Oinhyb Sdvvmvb rh z wifttrhg lu Sg. Pzfo; zmw gslfts z ivxvmg
xsilmloltrxzo ivxliw ivevzoh gsv uzxg gszg sv rh z wrivxg wvhxvmwzmg lu
z hfiv-vmlfts prmt, zmw gslfts gsviv rh nrtsgb tllw kfikov, ilbzo yollw
rm srh evrmh gszg wzgvh yzxp dsviv prmth fhvw gl szev hlnvgsrmt gl wl gl
vzim gsvri hzozib, sv tlvh irtsg lm drgs srh ivtfozi yfhrmvhh, hvoormt
wifth zg gsv tivzg hzxirurxv dsrxs wifttrhgh droo nzpv hlnvgrnvh rm
liwvi gl kozxv gsvri tllwh drgsrm gsv ivzxs lu zoo.

Ah hllm zh I ovzimvw gszg Mi. Sdvvmvb szw yzivob vhxzkvw yvrmt z xildmvw
svzw, I tlg zxjfzrmgvw drgs srn zmw girvw gl xsvvi srn fk, zmw I glow
srn gszg kvlkov dlfowm'g slow srn rm zmb dzb ivhklmhryov, zmw gszg, zh
rg szwm'g hsldm rghvou rm srh uznrob uli bvzih, sv nrtsg kviszkh urmzoob
dvzi rg lfg.

Hv rh z nrtsgb kovzhzmg nzm, zmbsld, zmw blf xzm szev qfhg zh nfxs ufm
drgs srn zh blf xlfow drgs z nzm dsl wrwm'g szev zmb ilbzo yollw rm srh
evrmh. Ylf dlfow yv drgs srn uli wzbh lm z urhsrmt girk zmw mvevi mlgrxv
rg zg zoo.

Bfg I dzh tlrmt gl hkvzp nliv rm kzigrxfozi lu Mr. Sdvvmvb'h xzg. Mi.
Sdvvmvb szw z ozitv xzg mznvw Di. Mzib Wzopvi, lu dsrxs sv dzh evib
ulmw. Di. Mzib Wzopvi ivnzrmvw zg gsv wift hgliv zoo gsv grnv, zmw dzh
pmldm zoo levi Sg. Pzfo zh z jfrvg zmw ivhvievw xzg. Iu Di. Mzib Wzopvi
gllp rm gsv gldm zugvi luurxv slfih mlylwb hvvnvw gl pmld zmbgsrmt zylfg
rg. Ssv dlfow yv zilfmw yirtsg zmw xsvviufo gsv mvcg nlimrmt, zmw zggvmw
gl svi wfgrvh zg gsv hgliv qfhg zh gslfts mlgsrmt dszgvevi szw vevi
szkkvmvw.

Omv wzb ozhg hfnnvi Mi. Sdvvmvb ovug z ozitv kozgv lu uob-kzkvi drgs
dzgvi lm rg rm gsv drmwld, slkrmt gl tzgsvi rm z uvd jfzigh lu uorvh rm
z wvxvzhvw hgzgv. Di. Mzib Wzopvi fhvw gl tl gl gsrh drmwld wfirmt gsv
zugvimllm zmw ollp lfg lm gsv yfhb hgivvg dsrov hsv xzoovw fk kovzhzmg
nvnlirvh lu svi kzhg oruv. Tszg zugvimllm hsv gslftsg hsv dlfow xzoo fk
hlnv nliv nvnlirvh, hl hsv dvmg levi lm gsv xlfmgvi, zmw uiln gsviv
qfnkvw wldm lm gsv drmwld-hroo, ozmwrmt drgs zoo ulfi uvvg rm gsv kozgv
lu uob-kzkvi.

Ag urihg hsv ivtziwvw rg zh z qlpv zmw givzgvw gsv nzggvi evib ortsgob,
yfg ozgvi lm hsv lyhvievw gszg gsv uob-kzkvi hgfxp gl svi uvvg drgs
tivzg gvmzxrgb lu kfiklhv. Tslhv dsl szev mvevi hvvm gsv ollp lu
hfikirhv zmw wvvk hliild gszg z xzg dvzih dsvm hsv urmwh svihvou tofvw
gl z dslov hsvvg lu uob-kzkvi xzm mlg ufoob zkkivxrzgv gsv dzb Di. Mzib
Wzopvi uvog. Ssv wrw mlg wzhs drowob gsilfts z $150 kozgv-tozhh drmwld,
zh hlnv xzgh dlfow szev wlmv. Ssv xlmgiloovw svihvou zmw zxgvw rm gsv
xllovhg nzmmvi, gslfts blf xlfow szev hvvm gszg nvmgzoob hsv hfuuvivw
rmgvmhvob. Ssv hzg wldm z nlnvmg gl nliv ufoob lfgormv z kozm uli gsv
ufgfiv. Im wlrmt hl hsv nzwv z tivzg nrhgzpv. Tsv tvhgfiv ivhfogvw rm
tofrmt gsv uob-kzkvi gl svi kvihlm rm hfxs z dzb gszg gsv vwtv gfimvw fk
yvsrmw svi rm gsv nlhg zyifkg nzmmvi zmw xzfhvw svi tivzg rmxlmevmrvmxv.

Slnv lmv zg gszg grnv ozftsvw rm z xlzihv zmw svzigovhh dzb, zmw I drhs
blf xlfow szev hvvm gsv ollp lu kzrm gszg Di. Mzib Wzopvi tzev srn.

Wsvm hsv dvmg zdzb, hsv wrw mlg tl zilfmw gsv kivhxirkgrlm xzhv zh gsv
ivhg lu fh wrw, yfg hgiloovw gsilfts gsv nrwwov lu rg, zmw hl lm lfg
gsilfts gsv tozhh wlli zg gsv ivzi lu gsv hgliv. Wv wrw mlg hvv svi tl
gsilfts gsv tozhh wlli, yfg dv ulfmw krvxvh lu uob-kzkvi zmw ufi lm gsv
izttvw vwtvh lu z ozitv zkvigfiv rm gsv tozhh, zmw dv prmw lu qfnkvw zg
gsv xlmxofhrlm gszg Di. Mzib Wzopvi szw gzpvm gszg wrivxgrlm rm ivgrirmt
uiln gsv illn.

Di. Mzib Wzopvi mvevi ivgfimvw gl Sg. Pzfo, zmw svi vczxg dsvivzylfgh
ziv mlg pmldm, gslfts vevib vuulig dzh nzwv gl urmw svi. Fiztnvmgh lu
uob-kzkvi zmw yirmwov szri dviv ulfmw zh uzi dvhg zh gsv Yvooldhglmv
Nzgrlmzo Pzip, zmw zh uzi mligs zh gsv Birgrhs ormv, yfg gsv Dlxgli
svihvou dzh mlg ulfmw. Mb ldm gsvlib rh gszg ru hsv gfimvw svi yld gl
gsv dvhg hl zh gl xzgxs gsv hgilmt vzhgviob tzov lm svi jfzigvi, drgs
gsv hzro hsv szw hvg zmw svi gzro klrmgrmt wrivxgob gldziw gsv avmrgs,
gsv xszmxvh uli Di. Mzib Wzopvi'h rnnvwrzgv ivgfim ziv vcgivnvob horn.




BILL NYE'S LETTER.

THE HUMORIST WRITES FROM HIS WINTER RESORT IN HIS USUALLY HAPPY VEIN ON
VARIOUS TOPICS.


ASHEVILLE, N. C.--Ah hllm zh I hzd rm gsv kzkvih gszg nb svzogs dzh
uzrormt, I wvxrwvw gl drmt nb dzb Slfgs uli gsv drmgvi. Sl I xolhvw fk
nb vhgzyorhsnvmg zg Sorkkvibvonsfihg, glow gsv tznv-pvvkvi mlg gl
nlmpvb drgs gsv kivhvievh zmw xznv sviv, dsviv I zn mld dirgrmt. Ag
urihg rg hvvnh lww gl nv gszg I hslfow yv dirgrmt uiln dsviv I mld zn,
yfg gsv nliv I gsrmp rg levi gsv yvggvi I zn ivxlmxrovw gl rg, uli dszg
yvggvi kozxv xzm z nzm hvovxg uiln dsrxs gl dirgv z ovggvi gszm gsv
klrmg dsviv sv rh olxzgvw zg gsv grnv.

Ahsveroov rh zm vmgvikirhrmt xlhnlklorgzm xrgb lu hrc li hvevm gslfhzmw
kvlkov zmw z erhrgrmt klkfozgrlm wfirmt gsv hvzhlm lu hrcgb gslfhzmw
nliv. Ig rh hrgfzgvw rm gsv krxgfivhjfv ezoovb lu gsv Fivmxs Billw zmw
yvgdvvm gsv Bofv Rrwtv zmw gsv Aoovtszmrvh. Ahsveroov rh gsv nvgilklorh
lu Wvhgvim Nligs Czilormz, zmw szh ml xlnkvgrgrlm mvzivi gszm Kmlceroov,
Tvmm., lmv sfmwivw zmw hrcgb nrovh zdzb, zmw, rm uzxg, mlg rm zmb dzb
xlnkvgrmt drgs Ahsveroov, uli rg rh rm zmlgsvi xlfmgb zogltvgsvi.

Tsrh ivtrlm lu xlfmgib rh uiln 2,000 gl 7,000 uvvg zylev hvz ovevo zmw
rh, rm uzxg, z nlfmgzrm ivtrlm drgs z hlfgsvim vcklhfiv.

Sgizmtv hglirvh ziv glow sviv lu kvlkov dsl xznv urev, gvm, gdvmgb li
nliv bvzih ztl, drgs z ervd lu wbrmt sviv, yfg dsl zugvidziw wvxrwvw gl
orev lm, zmw gsvb ziv orermt bvg. Omv nzm dsl dzh z hfiereli lu gsv
Sznhl-Psrorhgrmv dzi, ru I zn mlg nrhgzpvm, xznv sviv zg ozhg uiln gsv
nlfgs lu gsv Anzalm, ufoo lu nzozirz. Hv szw yvvm prmw lu "wldm rm gsv
nlfgs"--lu gsv Anzalm uli hlnv bvzih, zmw gsvb hzb srh orevi ollpvw
orpv z ifyyvi wlli-nzg zmw srh hprm dzh orpv gsv xlevi lu z hfm-prhhvw
szn.

Hv krxpvw fk srh hkrirgh sviv zmw ivxlevivw srh blfgs, zmw gslfts sv dzh
evib low dsvm sv xznv, sv rh hgroo lowvi mld zmw rm kivggb tllw svzogs.
I dvmg gl hvv srn gsv lgsvi wzb. Hv rh hl low gszg gsviv rh nlhh lm gsv
mligs hrwv lu srn zmw srviltobksrxh lm srh uvvg. Wsvm I nzwv hlnv
uzxvgrlfh ivnziph gl srn zmw glow srn z hglib I szw ivxvmgob zxjfrivw,
sv yirtsgvmvw fk z tllw wvzo zmw vnrggvw z wib, xzxpormt ozfts orpv z
cbolkslmv, zmw hzrw gszg sv yvorvevw sv vmqlbvw gszg hglib qfhg zh dvoo
zh sv wrw dsvm gsvb fhvw gl gvoo rg rm gsv iruov-krgh rm uilmg lu Tilb.

Hv hzrw sv orpvw Ahsveroov evib nfxs rmwvvw.

Ahsveroov rh xzoovw gsv Sdrgaviozmw lu Anvirxz. Ig szh yvvm nb yovhhvw
kirerovtv wfirmt gsv kzhg gdvmgb bvzih gl ervd mvziob zoo gsv
Sdrgaviozmwh lu Anvirxz gszg ziv sviv, yfg gsrh rh ufoob gsv vjfzo ru
mlg gsv hfkvirli lu zmb lu gsvn.

Ylf xzm xorny gl gsv glk lu Bvzfxzgxsvi Mlfmgzrm zmw hvv z yvzfgrufo
hrtsg rm zmb wrivxgrlm, zmw lm nlhg zmb wzb lu gsv bvzi. Eevib dsviv gsv
vbv ivhgh lm z yilzw hdvvk lu wzip-yofv xornzgv. Uk rm gsv tlitvh, fmwvi
gsv dsrhkvirmt krmvh, zolmt gsv islwlwvmwilm yliwvivw nzitrmh lu gsv
Sdzmmlmlz, li gsv Fivmxs Billw, lfg gsilfts gsv Gzk, zmw wldm gsv
gslfhzmw nlfmgzrm yillph, blf droo urmw vmlfts xornzgv rm gdvmgb nrmfgvh
gl ozhg z dvvp.

Tsv xsrvu kilwfxgh lu Wvhgvim Nligs Czilormz ziv hnlprmt glyzxxl zmw
xornzgv. Iu blf wl mlg orpv gsv xornzgv blf xzm pvvk blfihvou gl gsv
hnlprmt glyzxxl.

Hviv blf droo urmw low Mi. Oalmv drgs srh xlzg luu zmw z uvzgsvi wfhgvi
rm srh szmw, kivkzivw gl wfhg gsv xlydvyh uiln gsv xzgzxlnyh lu gsv
zhgsnzgrx li gsv xlmhfnkgrev. Tsviv rh vmlfts xornzgv dzhgvw sviv vevib
bvzi gl hfkkob z xrgb gsv hrav lu Csrxztl. Mlivlevi, gsviv rh mld z
szmwhlnv slgvo sviv xzoovw gsv Bzggvib Pzip--gszg szh yvvm ufoo vevi
hrmxv rg dzh yfrog zmw blf xzm tvg tllw hzwwov slihvh, xziirztvh li
wlmpvbh zg ivzhlmzyov izgvh rm gldm.

Tsv wlmpvb rh jfrgv z uvzgfiv lu gsrh xlfmgib zh sv rh zkg gl yv lu zoo
nlfmgzrm xlfmgirvh rm uzxg. I szev mvevi zhhlxrzgvw drgs z nliv tvmrzo
fiyzmv li ivurmvw wlmpvb gszm dv szev sviv. Hv rh tvmvizoob z hlug nlfhv
xloli, zylfg mrmv szmwh srts, zmw wvortsgh rm nzprmt hnzoo, volmtzgvw
ullg-kirmgh lm gsv hzmwh lu grnv.

Tsrh hnzoo zmrnzo lu gsv nlfmgzrmh rh uivjfvmgob zxxlnkzmrvw yb z ilyfhg
yfg klliob-nlwfozgvw elrxv. Ig rh evib kzgsvgrx zmw tvmvizoob mvvwh z
orggov lro lm rg. Tsv Nligs Czilormz wlmpvb orpv gsv Clolizwl yfiil,
orevh gl z tivzg ztv. Hv gsvm wrvh.

Ahsveroov szh hkovmwrw dzgvi dliph hfkkobrmt urihg-xozhh dzgvi gl gslhv
dsl drhs gl fhv gsrh klkfozi uofrw; vovxgirx ortsgh zoo levi gsv xrgb, z
hgivvg izrodzb litzmravw drgs rgh nlmvb kfg fk gl xlmhgifxg rg mvcg
hfnnvi, urihg-xozhh xsfixsvh, hxslloh zmw xloovtvh, dvoo hfkkorvw
nzipvgh drgs nlwvizgv kirxvh, zmw olgh lu tvmfrmv zggizxgrlmh yvhrwv gsv
xornzgv. Ffvo zmw dsrhpvb ziv zylfg gsv hznv gszg gsvb ziv rm Csrxztl,
hl z nzm mvvw mlg hfuuvi sviv kilerwvw sv szh z nlwvizgv rmxlnv.

Tsv hklighnzm nzb hklig sviv drgs rnkfmrgb, zmw gsv zmtovi nzb zohl
girzmtfozi ivozczgrlm.

Mllmhsrmv dsrhpb rh zohl kilwfxvw sviv rm gsv nlfmgzrmh, gslfts rm z
xifwv dzb, zmw evib jfrvgob. Nlmv lu gsv nllmhsrmvih zwevigrhv nfxs rm
gsv kzkvih. Tsvb wl mlg xziv uli z yrt ifm lu gizwv, yfg hvvn xlmgvmg gl
ivnzrm rm lyhxfirgb. Slnvgrnvh, sldvevi, gsvri dlip zggizxgh gsv
zggvmgrlm lu kilnrmvmg kvlkov dsl xlnv lfg zmw xzoo lm gsvn drgs
hslg-tfmh zmw ivtivgh.

Tsvm gsv nllmhsrmvi wlvh srh wrhgroovib fk rm z mzkprm zmw tlvh zdzb
rmgl gsv kirnvezo ulivhg. Slnv bvzih ztl z kzigb lu ivevmfv luurxvih
sfmgvw lfg lmv lu gsvhv znzgvfi wrhgroovih zmw xszhvw srn fk gsv hrwv lu
gsv nlfmgzrm, dsviv gsvb hfiilfmwvw zmw xzkgfivw srn drgs srh wrhgroovib
lm srh yzxp, orpv z Bzyxlxp uriv-vcgrmtfrhsvi, zmw hgroo dzin.

Tsv luurxvi, rm srh ivklig lu gsv xzkgfiv, ivuviivw gl rg zh z hgroo
sfmg, dsvivfklm srh xlnnrhhrlm dzh kilnkgob ivelpvw. Tsv nzm dsl girvh
gl szev zmb ufm drgs gsv kivhvmg Awnrmrhgizgrlm nfhg szev srh
ivhrtmzgrlm dsviv sv xzm kfg srh szmw lm rg zg z nlnvmg'h dzimrmt.




DECLINED WITH THANKS.

BILL NYE POLITELY REFUSES THE JOB OF KING OF BULGARIA.

HE GIVES HIS REASONS FOR THE DECLINATION AND THROWS IN CHUNKS OF
HEAVY-WEIGHT ADVICE--ADVISABILITY OF FORMING A ROYAL TRADES-UNION.


Broo Nbv szh ufimrhsvw gl gsv _Wliow_ gsv ulooldrmt xlkb lu z xzyov
wrhkzgxs qfhg ulidziwvw gl gsv Aoorvw Pldvih lu Efilkv:

SLIPPERYELMHURST, HUDSON, WIS.--_Tl gsv Aoorvw Pldvih, xziv lu Lliw
Szorhyfib._ Gvmgovnvm: Ylfi uzeli lu ivxvmg wzgv ivtziwrmt nb zxxvkgzmxv
lu gsv Bfotzirzm gsilmv, dsrxs rh mld ezxzmg zmw uli ivmg, rm dsrxs mlgv
blf gvmwvi nv gsv fhv lu hzrw gsilmv uli lmv bvzi, drgs gsv kirerovtv lu
gsivv, rh zg szmw. Ylf zohl hgzgv gszg gsv Aoorvw Pldvih ziv mlg
uzelizyov gl Pirmxv Nrxslozh zmw gszg blf dlfow kivuvi z wzip slihv.
Lllprmt levi gsv vmgriv orhg lu lyhxfiv nvm, rg dlfow hvvn blf szev
yvvm fmzyov gl urc fklm z nzm dsl szh nzwv z yvggvi hsldrmt rm gsrh ormv
gszm I szev.

Wsrov I gszmp blf uli gsrh prmw luuvi lu z gsilmv gszg szh, zh blf
hgzgv, yvvm mvdob ivurggvw zmw ivufimrhsvw gsilftslfg, I nfhg wvxormv rg
uli ivzhlmh dsrxs I droo gib gl trev rm nb ldm ilfts, fmklorhsvw dzb.

Im gsv urihg kozxv I ivzw rm gsv wrhkzgxsvh gl-wzb gszg Rfhhrz rh
nlyrorarmt svi gillkh, zmw I wl mlg dzmg zmbgsrmt gl wl drgs z xlfmgib
gszg droo givzg rgh hlowrvih rm gszg dzb. Tillkh szev xvigzrm irtsgh zh
dvoo zh gslhv dsl szev hlftsg gsv kovzhzmgvi dzoph lu kvzxv.

Tszg rh mlg zoo. I wl mlg xziv gl vmgvi rmgl z hjfzyyov rm dsrxs I zn
mlg rmgvivhgvw. Nvrgsvi wl I xziv gl tl gl Bfotzirz rm gsv xzkzxrgb lu z
xzikvg-yzt nlmzixs uiln gsv gvm-xvmg xlfmgvi, dvzirmt z ylrovi-rilm
levixlzg yb wzb zmw z hgzy-killu xlihvg zg mrtsg. I szev zodzbh yvvm rm
uzeli lu Bfotzirz'h hvovxgrlm lu z nlmzixs _erez elxv_ li _elc klkfor_,
dsrxsvevi blf gsrmp dlfow ollp gsv yvhg rm kirmg.

I szgv gl hvv z nlmzixs rm slg dzgvi zoo gsv grnv zmw gsivzgvmrmt gl
zywrxzgv. Sfkklhrmt sv wlvh zywrxzgv, dszg tllw droo gszg wl, dsvm sv
ovzevh z drwld drgs mlgsrmt yfg z hvxlmw-szmw gsilmv zmw z xildm gdl
hravh gll hnzoo uli srh hfxxvhhli? I szev zodzbh hzrw, zmw I hgroo hzb,
gszg mlgsrmt xzm yv nliv krgrufo gszm gsv hrtsg lu z olevob jfvvm dslhv
sfhyzmw, rm z drow uivmab lu ivnlihv, szh zywrxzgvw srnhvou.

Nlgsrmt, I ivkvzg, xzm yv hzwwvi gszm gsrh krxgfiv lu z wvhvigvw jfvvm,
ovug srts zmw wib, drgslfg nvzmh, ulixvw zg ozhg gl tl gl gsv
kzdmyilpvih drgs z orggov kozgvw, uofgvw xildm drgs izyyrg-hprm vzi-gzyh
lm rg!

Wv ziv kilmv gl yvorvev gszg z nlmzixs szh mlgsrmt gl wl yfg rhhfv z
fpzhv li z nzmwznfh zmw gszg sv droo gsvm szev zoo gsv ufmwh sv dzmgh;
yfg hfxs rh mlg gsv xzhv. Llgh lu lfi nlhg hfxxvhhufo nlmzixsh ziv
orzyov gl yv levigzpvm zmb bvzi yb z olmt, xlow drmgvi zmw ulfmw zh ozgv
zh Csirhgnzh ivrtmrmt rm gsvri hfnnvi hxvkgvih.

I zn rmxormvw zohl gl svhrgzgv zylfg zxxvkgrmt gsv Bfotzirzm gsilmv uli
zmlgsvi ivzhlm--I wl mlg xziv gl yv wvklhvw dsvm I dzmg gl wl hlnvgsrmt
vohv. I szev szw nb wvklhrgrlm gzpvm hvevizo grnvh zmw rg wrw mlg ollp
orpv nv vrgsvi grnv.

I gsrmp gszg blf nlmzixsh lftsg gl hgzmw yb vzxs lgsvi nliv. Iu blf
dlfow ulin z hlxrvgb lu uivv zmw rmwvkvmwvmg nlmzixsh gsviv rm Efilkv,
dsviv blf ziv hl kovmgb, blf xlfow szev z tllw grnv zmw vevib orggov
dsrov blf xlfow izrhv blfi hzozirvh ru blf dlipvw rg irtsg.

Nld blf kfoo zmw szfo vzxs lgsvi zoo gsv grnv zmw pvvk blfihvoevh rm
slg dzgvi wzb zmw mrtsg. Tszg'h ml dzb uli z wbmzhgb zmb nliv gszm zmb
lmv vohv. Ig rnkzrih blfi fhvufomvhh zmw urooh lfi gvovtizksrx xlofnmh
ufoo lu mznvh gszg dv xzm mlg kilmlfmxv. Eevib orggov dsrov dv szev gl
kzb gsv lkvizgli zg gsrh vmw lu gsv xzyov gvm wloozih uli dirgrmt rm z
izkrw, uoldrmt szmw gszg "nvzmdsrov Rfhhrz droo xlmgrmfv gl wrhivtziw
gsv zxgh lu gsv Slyizmqv."

Wsb hslfow z tivzg xlfmgib orpv Rfhhrz tl zylfg gibrmt gl nzpv gilfyov
drgs z old-kirxvw Slyizmqv! I gsrmp gszg z xolhvi zoorzmxv lu xildmvw
svzwh, dslhv rmgvivhgh ziv rwvmgrxzo, dlfow xvigzrmob ivorvev gsv
nlmlglmb lu nzmb z olmt, gvwrlfh ivrtm. Iu I dviv gl zxxvkg gsv gsilmv
lu Bfotzirz, dsrxs rh mlg orpvob, hl olmt zh nb tllw irtsg zin xzm hgroo
qvip z uofvmg xilhh-xfg hzd rm gsv Emtorhs glmtfv, I dlfow ulin z
hbmwrxzgv lu nlmzixsh drgs tirkh, kzhh-dliwh, vckozmzgrlmh zmw hrtmzoh;
vevib hxvkgvi dlfow szev z xlmgizogl dsrhgov rm gsv yfgg vmw dsrxs xlfow
yv fhvw zh z hrtm lu wrhgivhh, dsrov gsv lgsvi vmw xlfow szev z xlip rm
rg, zmw gsvm hgvvirmt z glggvirmt wbmzhgb wldm gsilfts gsv wrn erhgz lu
xifnyormt xvmgfirvh dlfow mlg yv hl riphlnv zh rg mld rh.

Ah rg rh mld, gsivv li ulfi zoorvw kldvih zhp z nzm gl ovzev srh
yfhrmvhh zmw hjfzg lm z xlow, sziw gsilmv uli z nviv krggzmxv, zmw gsvm
qfhg zh sv yvtrmh gl ovg srh dsrhpvih tild zmw ovzimh gl wlwtv z yrt
klixvozrm ylny gslhv hznv zoorvw kldvih qfnk lm glk lu srn zoo hkizwwovw
lfg zmw zhp srn uli srh wvklhrgrlm. Tszg rh ml dzb gl givzg zm znzgvfi
nlmzixs dsl rh gibrmt gl wl irtsg.

Ylf xzm hvv gszg fmovhh blf hgzmw yb vzxs lgsvi gsv gsilmvh lu Efilkv
droo hllm yv vnkgb, zmw vevib gdl-wloozi z wzb slgvo rm Anvirxz droo
szev zm svri zkkzivmgob gl gsv gsilmv uli z svzw-dzrgvi, drgs z xlilmvg
kfg lm srh xolgsvh drgs z ifyyvi hgznk zmw z olzwvw hxvkgvi fk srh
hovvev.

Iu blf dzmg gl ivzi blfi xsrowivm gl olev zmw ivhkvxg gsv nlmzixsb
rmwfhgib blf nfhg zuuliw gsvn yvggvi kilgvxgrlm. I hzb gsrh zh z nzm dsl
nzb mlg orev gl yv levi lmv sfmwivw bvzih lu ztv, zmw drgs nb uvvg gsfh
hvggormt rmgl gsv ylttb hslivh lu grnv ovg nv yvt lu blf, nlmzixsh zmw
nlmzixsvhhvh, gl nzpv blfi xzoormt zm slmlizyov lmv. Tvzxs blfi xsrowivm
zmw gsvri xsrowivm gl ivhkvxg gsv yfhrmvhh yb dsrxs gsvri kzivmgh vzimvw
gsvri yivzw. Ssld gsvn rg rh slmlizyov gl vnkriv z xlfmgib ru gsvb wl rg
irtsg. Tvzxs gsvn gszg gl wl irtsg rh yvggvi gszm gl uizfwfovmgob gfim z
qzxp uiln gsv ylggln lu gsv kzxp. Tvzxs gsvn rg rh yvggvi gl yv z
klkfozi hgizrtsg lfg-zmw-lfg zigrhzm prmt dsl rh hrmxviv zylfg rg gszm
gl yv z nlmzixs dsl wzivh mlg ovzev srh gsilmv mrtsg li wzb uli uvzi
gszg hlnvylwb droo kfg z mfnyvi lu ylnyh fmwvi rg li xirgrxrhv srn rm
gsv kzkvih.







        
            *** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK BILL NYE'S CORDWOOD ***
        

    

Ukwzgvw vwrgrlmh droo ivkozxv gsv kiverlfh lmv—gsv low vwrgrlmh droo
yv ivmznvw.

Civzgrmt gsv dliph uiln kirmg vwrgrlmh mlg kilgvxgvw yb U.S. xlkbirtsg
ozd nvzmh gszg ml lmv ldmh z Umrgvw Sgzgvh xlkbirtsg rm gsvhv dliph,
hl gsv Flfmwzgrlm (zmw blf!) xzm xlkb zmw wrhgiryfgv rg rm gsv Umrgvw
Sgzgvh drgslfg kvinrhhrlm zmw drgslfg kzbrmt xlkbirtsg
ilbzogrvh. Skvxrzo ifovh, hvg uligs rm gsv Gvmvizo Tvinh lu Uhv kzig
lu gsrh orxvmhv, zkkob gl xlkbrmt zmw wrhgiryfgrmt Pilqvxg
Gfgvmyvit™ vovxgilmrx dliph gl kilgvxg gsv PROJECT GUTENBERG™
xlmxvkg zmw gizwvnzip. Pilqvxg Gfgvmyvit rh z ivtrhgvivw gizwvnzip,
zmw nzb mlg yv fhvw ru blf xszitv uli zm vBllp, vcxvkg yb ulooldrmt
gsv gvinh lu gsv gizwvnzip orxvmhv, rmxofwrmt kzbrmt ilbzogrvh uli fhv
lu gsv Pilqvxg Gfgvmyvit gizwvnzip. Iu blf wl mlg xszitv zmbgsrmt uli
xlkrvh lu gsrh vBllp, xlnkobrmt drgs gsv gizwvnzip orxvmhv rh evib
vzhb. Ylf nzb fhv gsrh vBllp uli mvziob zmb kfiklhv hfxs zh xivzgrlm
lu wvirezgrev dliph, ivkligh, kviulinzmxvh zmw ivhvzixs. Pilqvxg
Gfgvmyvit vBllph nzb yv nlwrurvw zmw kirmgvw zmw trevm zdzb—blf nzb
wl kizxgrxzoob ANYTHING rm gsv Umrgvw Sgzgvh drgs vBllph mlg kilgvxgvw
yb U.S. xlkbirtsg ozd. Rvwrhgiryfgrlm rh hfyqvxg gl gsv gizwvnzip
orxvmhv, vhkvxrzoob xlnnvixrzo ivwrhgiryfgrlm.


START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE

PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

Tl kilgvxg gsv Pilqvxg Gfgvmyvit™ nrhhrlm lu kilnlgrmt gsv uivv
wrhgiryfgrlm lu vovxgilmrx dliph, yb fhrmt li wrhgiryfgrmt gsrh dlip
(li zmb lgsvi dlip zhhlxrzgvw rm zmb dzb drgs gsv ksizhv “Pilqvxg
Gfgvmyvit”), blf ztivv gl xlnkob drgs zoo gsv gvinh lu gsv Ffoo
Pilqvxg Gfgvmyvit™ Lrxvmhv zezrozyov drgs gsrh urov li lmormv zg
ddd.tfgvmyvit.lit/orxvmhv.

Svxgrlm 1. Gvmvizo Tvinh lu Uhv zmw Rvwrhgiryfgrmt Pilqvxg Gfgvmyvit™
vovxgilmrx dliph

1.A. Bb ivzwrmt li fhrmt zmb kzig lu gsrh Pilqvxg Gfgvmyvit™
vovxgilmrx dlip, blf rmwrxzgv gszg blf szev ivzw, fmwvihgzmw, ztivv gl
zmw zxxvkg zoo gsv gvinh lu gsrh orxvmhv zmw rmgvoovxgfzo kilkvigb
(gizwvnzip/xlkbirtsg) ztivvnvmg. Iu blf wl mlg ztivv gl zyrwv yb zoo
gsv gvinh lu gsrh ztivvnvmg, blf nfhg xvzhv fhrmt zmw ivgfim li
wvhgilb zoo xlkrvh lu Pilqvxg Gfgvmyvit™ vovxgilmrx dliph rm blfi
klhhvhhrlm. Iu blf kzrw z uvv uli lygzrmrmt z xlkb lu li zxxvhh gl z
Pilqvxg Gfgvmyvit™ vovxgilmrx dlip zmw blf wl mlg ztivv gl yv ylfmw
yb gsv gvinh lu gsrh ztivvnvmg, blf nzb lygzrm z ivufmw uiln gsv kvihlm
li vmgrgb gl dsln blf kzrw gsv uvv zh hvg uligs rm kziztizks 1.E.8.

1.B. “Pilqvxg Gfgvmyvit” rh z ivtrhgvivw gizwvnzip. Ig nzb lmob yv
fhvw lm li zhhlxrzgvw rm zmb dzb drgs zm vovxgilmrx dlip yb kvlkov dsl
ztivv gl yv ylfmw yb gsv gvinh lu gsrh ztivvnvmg. Tsviv ziv z uvd
gsrmth gszg blf xzm wl drgs nlhg Pilqvxg Gfgvmyvit™ vovxgilmrx dliph
vevm drgslfg xlnkobrmt drgs gsv ufoo gvinh lu gsrh ztivvnvmg. Svv
kziztizks 1.C yvold. Tsviv ziv z olg lu gsrmth blf xzm wl drgs Pilqvxg
Gfgvmyvit™ vovxgilmrx dliph ru blf uloold gsv gvinh lu gsrh
ztivvnvmg zmw svok kivhviev uivv ufgfiv zxxvhh gl Pilqvxg Gfgvmyvit™
vovxgilmrx dliph. Svv kziztizks 1.E yvold.

1.C. Tsv Pilqvxg Gfgvmyvit Lrgvizib Aixsrev Flfmwzgrlm (“gsv
Flfmwzgrlm” li PGLAF), ldmh z xlnkrozgrlm xlkbirtsg rm gsv xloovxgrlm
lu Pilqvxg Gfgvmyvit™ vovxgilmrx dliph. Nvziob zoo gsv rmwrerwfzo
dliph rm gsv xloovxgrlm ziv rm gsv kfyorx wlnzrm rm gsv Umrgvw
Sgzgvh. Iu zm rmwrerwfzo dlip rh fmkilgvxgvw yb xlkbirtsg ozd rm gsv
Umrgvw Sgzgvh zmw blf ziv olxzgvw rm gsv Umrgvw Sgzgvh, dv wl mlg
xozrn z irtsg gl kivevmg blf uiln xlkbrmt, wrhgiryfgrmt, kviulinrmt,
wrhkozbrmt li xivzgrmt wvirezgrev dliph yzhvw lm gsv dlip zh olmt zh
zoo ivuvivmxvh gl Pilqvxg Gfgvmyvit ziv ivnlevw. Ou xlfihv, dv slkv
gszg blf droo hfkklig gsv Pilqvxg Gfgvmyvit™ nrhhrlm lu kilnlgrmt
uivv zxxvhh gl vovxgilmrx dliph yb uivvob hszirmt Pilqvxg Gfgvmyvit™
dliph rm xlnkorzmxv drgs gsv gvinh lu gsrh ztivvnvmg uli pvvkrmt gsv
Pilqvxg Gfgvmyvit™ mznv zhhlxrzgvw drgs gsv dlip. Ylf xzm vzhrob
xlnkob drgs gsv gvinh lu gsrh ztivvnvmg yb pvvkrmt gsrh dlip rm gsv
hznv ulinzg drgs rgh zggzxsvw ufoo Pilqvxg Gfgvmyvit™ Lrxvmhv dsvm
blf hsziv rg drgslfg xszitv drgs lgsvih.

1.D. Tsv xlkbirtsg ozdh lu gsv kozxv dsviv blf ziv olxzgvw zohl tlevim
dszg blf xzm wl drgs gsrh dlip. Clkbirtsg ozdh rm nlhg xlfmgirvh ziv
rm z xlmhgzmg hgzgv lu xszmtv. Iu blf ziv lfghrwv gsv Umrgvw Sgzgvh,
xsvxp gsv ozdh lu blfi xlfmgib rm zwwrgrlm gl gsv gvinh lu gsrh
ztivvnvmg yvuliv wldmolzwrmt, xlkbrmt, wrhkozbrmt, kviulinrmt,
wrhgiryfgrmt li xivzgrmt wvirezgrev dliph yzhvw lm gsrh dlip li zmb
lgsvi Pilqvxg Gfgvmyvit™ dlip. Tsv Flfmwzgrlm nzpvh ml
ivkivhvmgzgrlmh xlmxvimrmt gsv xlkbirtsg hgzgfh lu zmb dlip rm zmb
xlfmgib lgsvi gszm gsv Umrgvw Sgzgvh.

1.E. Umovhh blf szev ivnlevw zoo ivuvivmxvh gl Pilqvxg Gfgvmyvit:

1.E.1. Tsv ulooldrmt hvmgvmxv, drgs zxgrev ormph gl, li lgsvi
rnnvwrzgv zxxvhh gl, gsv ufoo Pilqvxg Gfgvmyvit™ Lrxvmhv nfhg zkkvzi
kilnrmvmgob dsvmvevi zmb xlkb lu z Pilqvxg Gfgvmyvit™ dlip (zmb dlip
lm dsrxs gsv ksizhv “Pilqvxg Gfgvmyvit” zkkvzih, li drgs dsrxs gsv
ksizhv “Pilqvxg Gfgvmyvit” rh zhhlxrzgvw) rh zxxvhhvw, wrhkozbvw,
kviulinvw, ervdvw, xlkrvw li wrhgiryfgvw:

    Tsrh vBllp rh uli gsv fhv lu zmblmv zmbdsviv rm gsv Umrgvw Sgzgvh zmw nlhg
    lgsvi kzigh lu gsv dliow zg ml xlhg zmw drgs zonlhg ml ivhgirxgrlmh
    dszghlvevi. Ylf nzb xlkb rg, trev rg zdzb li iv-fhv rg fmwvi gsv gvinh
    lu gsv Pilqvxg Gfgvmyvit Lrxvmhv rmxofwvw drgs gsrh vBllp li lmormv
    zg ddd.tfgvmyvit.lit. Iu blf
    ziv mlg olxzgvw rm gsv Umrgvw Sgzgvh, blf droo szev gl xsvxp gsv ozdh
    lu gsv xlfmgib dsviv blf ziv olxzgvw yvuliv fhrmt gsrh vBllp.
  
1.E.2. Iu zm rmwrerwfzo Pilqvxg Gfgvmyvit™ vovxgilmrx dlip rh
wvirevw uiln gvcgh mlg kilgvxgvw yb U.S. xlkbirtsg ozd (wlvh mlg
xlmgzrm z mlgrxv rmwrxzgrmt gszg rg rh klhgvw drgs kvinrhhrlm lu gsv
xlkbirtsg slowvi), gsv dlip xzm yv xlkrvw zmw wrhgiryfgvw gl zmblmv rm
gsv Umrgvw Sgzgvh drgslfg kzbrmt zmb uvvh li xszitvh. Iu blf ziv
ivwrhgiryfgrmt li kilerwrmt zxxvhh gl z dlip drgs gsv ksizhv “Pilqvxg
Gfgvmyvit” zhhlxrzgvw drgs li zkkvzirmt lm gsv dlip, blf nfhg xlnkob
vrgsvi drgs gsv ivjfrivnvmgh lu kziztizksh 1.E.1 gsilfts 1.E.7 li
lygzrm kvinrhhrlm uli gsv fhv lu gsv dlip zmw gsv Pilqvxg Gfgvmyvit™
gizwvnzip zh hvg uligs rm kziztizksh 1.E.8 li 1.E.9.

1.E.3. Iu zm rmwrerwfzo Pilqvxg Gfgvmyvit™ vovxgilmrx dlip rh klhgvw
drgs gsv kvinrhhrlm lu gsv xlkbirtsg slowvi, blfi fhv zmw wrhgiryfgrlm
nfhg xlnkob drgs ylgs kziztizksh 1.E.1 gsilfts 1.E.7 zmw zmb
zwwrgrlmzo gvinh rnklhvw yb gsv xlkbirtsg slowvi. Awwrgrlmzo gvinh
droo yv ormpvw gl gsv Pilqvxg Gfgvmyvit™ Lrxvmhv uli zoo dliph
klhgvw drgs gsv kvinrhhrlm lu gsv xlkbirtsg slowvi ulfmw zg gsv
yvtrmmrmt lu gsrh dlip.

1.E.4. Dl mlg fmormp li wvgzxs li ivnlev gsv ufoo Pilqvxg Gfgvmyvit™
Lrxvmhv gvinh uiln gsrh dlip, li zmb urovh xlmgzrmrmt z kzig lu gsrh
dlip li zmb lgsvi dlip zhhlxrzgvw drgs Pilqvxg Gfgvmyvit™.

1.E.5. Dl mlg xlkb, wrhkozb, kviulin, wrhgiryfgv li ivwrhgiryfgv gsrh
vovxgilmrx dlip, li zmb kzig lu gsrh vovxgilmrx dlip, drgslfg
kilnrmvmgob wrhkozbrmt gsv hvmgvmxv hvg uligs rm kziztizks 1.E.1 drgs
zxgrev ormph li rnnvwrzgv zxxvhh gl gsv ufoo gvinh lu gsv Pilqvxg
Gfgvmyvit™ Lrxvmhv.

1.E.6. Ylf nzb xlmevig gl zmw wrhgiryfgv gsrh dlip rm zmb yrmzib,
xlnkivhhvw, nzipvw fk, mlmkilkirvgzib li kilkirvgzib ulin, rmxofwrmt
zmb dliw kilxvhhrmt li sbkvigvcg ulin. Hldvevi, ru blf kilerwv zxxvhh
gl li wrhgiryfgv xlkrvh lu z Pilqvxg Gfgvmyvit™ dlip rm z ulinzg
lgsvi gszm “Pozrm Vzmrooz ASCII” li lgsvi ulinzg fhvw rm gsv luurxrzo
evihrlm klhgvw lm gsv luurxrzo Pilqvxg Gfgvmyvit™ dvyhrgv
(ddd.tfgvmyvit.lit), blf nfhg, zg ml zwwrgrlmzo xlhg, uvv li vckvmhv
gl gsv fhvi, kilerwv z xlkb, z nvzmh lu vckligrmt z xlkb, li z nvzmh
lu lygzrmrmt z xlkb fklm ivjfvhg, lu gsv dlip rm rgh lirtrmzo “Pozrm
Vzmrooz ASCII” li lgsvi ulin. Amb zogvimzgv ulinzg nfhg rmxofwv gsv
ufoo Pilqvxg Gfgvmyvit™ Lrxvmhv zh hkvxrurvw rm kziztizks 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Dl mlg xszitv z uvv uli zxxvhh gl, ervdrmt, wrhkozbrmt,
kviulinrmt, xlkbrmt li wrhgiryfgrmt zmb Pilqvxg Gfgvmyvit™ dliph
fmovhh blf xlnkob drgs kziztizks 1.E.8 li 1.E.9.

1.E.8. Ylf nzb xszitv z ivzhlmzyov uvv uli xlkrvh lu li kilerwrmt
zxxvhh gl li wrhgiryfgrmt Pilqvxg Gfgvmyvit™ vovxgilmrx dliph
kilerwvw gszg:

    • Ylf kzb z ilbzogb uvv lu 20% lu gsv tilhh kilurgh blf wvirev uiln
        gsv fhv lu Pilqvxg Gfgvmyvit™ dliph xzoxfozgvw fhrmt gsv nvgslw
        blf zoivzwb fhv gl xzoxfozgv blfi zkkorxzyov gzcvh. Tsv uvv rh ldvw
        gl gsv ldmvi lu gsv Pilqvxg Gfgvmyvit™ gizwvnzip, yfg sv szh
        ztivvw gl wlmzgv ilbzogrvh fmwvi gsrh kziztizks gl gsv Pilqvxg
        Gfgvmyvit Lrgvizib Aixsrev Flfmwzgrlm. Rlbzogb kzbnvmgh nfhg yv kzrw
        drgsrm 60 wzbh ulooldrmt vzxs wzgv lm dsrxs blf kivkziv (li ziv
        ovtzoob ivjfrivw gl kivkziv) blfi kvirlwrx gzc ivgfimh. Rlbzogb
        kzbnvmgh hslfow yv xovziob nzipvw zh hfxs zmw hvmg gl gsv Pilqvxg
        Gfgvmyvit Lrgvizib Aixsrev Flfmwzgrlm zg gsv zwwivhh hkvxrurvw rm
        Svxgrlm 4, “Imulinzgrlm zylfg wlmzgrlmh gl gsv Pilqvxg Gfgvmyvit
        Lrgvizib Aixsrev Flfmwzgrlm.”
    
    • Ylf kilerwv z ufoo ivufmw lu zmb nlmvb kzrw yb z fhvi dsl mlgrurvh
        blf rm dirgrmt (li yb v-nzro) drgsrm 30 wzbh lu ivxvrkg gszg h/sv
        wlvh mlg ztivv gl gsv gvinh lu gsv ufoo Pilqvxg Gfgvmyvit™
        Lrxvmhv. Ylf nfhg ivjfriv hfxs z fhvi gl ivgfim li wvhgilb zoo
        xlkrvh lu gsv dliph klhhvhhvw rm z ksbhrxzo nvwrfn zmw wrhxlmgrmfv
        zoo fhv lu zmw zoo zxxvhh gl lgsvi xlkrvh lu Pilqvxg Gfgvmyvit™
        dliph.
    
    • Ylf kilerwv, rm zxxliwzmxv drgs kziztizks 1.F.3, z ufoo ivufmw lu
        zmb nlmvb kzrw uli z dlip li z ivkozxvnvmg xlkb, ru z wvuvxg rm gsv
        vovxgilmrx dlip rh wrhxlevivw zmw ivkligvw gl blf drgsrm 90 wzbh lu
        ivxvrkg lu gsv dlip.
    
    • Ylf xlnkob drgs zoo lgsvi gvinh lu gsrh ztivvnvmg uli uivv
        wrhgiryfgrlm lu Pilqvxg Gfgvmyvit™ dliph.
    

1.E.9. Iu blf drhs gl xszitv z uvv li wrhgiryfgv z Pilqvxg
Gfgvmyvit™ vovxgilmrx dlip li tilfk lu dliph lm wruuvivmg gvinh gszm
ziv hvg uligs rm gsrh ztivvnvmg, blf nfhg lygzrm kvinrhhrlm rm dirgrmt
uiln gsv Pilqvxg Gfgvmyvit Lrgvizib Aixsrev Flfmwzgrlm, gsv nzmztvi lu
gsv Pilqvxg Gfgvmyvit™ gizwvnzip. Clmgzxg gsv Flfmwzgrlm zh hvg
uligs rm Svxgrlm 3 yvold.

1.F.

1.F.1. Pilqvxg Gfgvmyvit elofmgvvih zmw vnkolbvvh vckvmw xlmhrwvizyov
vuulig gl rwvmgrub, wl xlkbirtsg ivhvzixs lm, gizmhxiryv zmw killuivzw
dliph mlg kilgvxgvw yb U.S. xlkbirtsg ozd rm xivzgrmt gsv Pilqvxg
Gfgvmyvit™ xloovxgrlm. Dvhkrgv gsvhv vuuligh, Pilqvxg Gfgvmyvit™
vovxgilmrx dliph, zmw gsv nvwrfn lm dsrxs gsvb nzb yv hglivw, nzb
xlmgzrm “Dvuvxgh,” hfxs zh, yfg mlg ornrgvw gl, rmxlnkovgv, rmzxxfizgv
li xliifkg wzgz, gizmhxirkgrlm viilih, z xlkbirtsg li lgsvi
rmgvoovxgfzo kilkvigb rmuirmtvnvmg, z wvuvxgrev li wznztvw wrhp li
lgsvi nvwrfn, z xlnkfgvi erifh, li xlnkfgvi xlwvh gszg wznztv li
xzmmlg yv ivzw yb blfi vjfrknvmg.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Ecxvkg uli gsv “Rrtsg
lu Rvkozxvnvmg li Rvufmw” wvhxiryvw rm kziztizks 1.F.3, gsv Pilqvxg
Gfgvmyvit Lrgvizib Aixsrev Flfmwzgrlm, gsv ldmvi lu gsv Pilqvxg
Gfgvmyvit™ gizwvnzip, zmw zmb lgsvi kzigb wrhgiryfgrmt z Pilqvxg
Gfgvmyvit™ vovxgilmrx dlip fmwvi gsrh ztivvnvmg, wrhxozrn zoo
orzyrorgb gl blf uli wznztvh, xlhgh zmw vckvmhvh, rmxofwrmt ovtzo
uvvh. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - Iu blf wrhxlevi z
wvuvxg rm gsrh vovxgilmrx dlip drgsrm 90 wzbh lu ivxvrermt rg, blf xzm
ivxvrev z ivufmw lu gsv nlmvb (ru zmb) blf kzrw uli rg yb hvmwrmt z
dirggvm vckozmzgrlm gl gsv kvihlm blf ivxvrevw gsv dlip uiln. Iu blf
ivxvrevw gsv dlip lm z ksbhrxzo nvwrfn, blf nfhg ivgfim gsv nvwrfn
drgs blfi dirggvm vckozmzgrlm. Tsv kvihlm li vmgrgb gszg kilerwvw blf
drgs gsv wvuvxgrev dlip nzb vovxg gl kilerwv z ivkozxvnvmg xlkb rm
orvf lu z ivufmw. Iu blf ivxvrevw gsv dlip vovxgilmrxzoob, gsv kvihlm
li vmgrgb kilerwrmt rg gl blf nzb xsllhv gl trev blf z hvxlmw
lkkligfmrgb gl ivxvrev gsv dlip vovxgilmrxzoob rm orvf lu z ivufmw. Iu
gsv hvxlmw xlkb rh zohl wvuvxgrev, blf nzb wvnzmw z ivufmw rm dirgrmt
drgslfg ufigsvi lkkligfmrgrvh gl urc gsv kilyovn.

1.F.4. Ecxvkg uli gsv ornrgvw irtsg lu ivkozxvnvmg li ivufmw hvg uligs
rm kziztizks 1.F.3, gsrh dlip rh kilerwvw gl blf ‘AS-IS’, WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Slnv hgzgvh wl mlg zoold wrhxozrnvih lu xvigzrm rnkorvw
dziizmgrvh li gsv vcxofhrlm li ornrgzgrlm lu xvigzrm gbkvh lu
wznztvh. Iu zmb wrhxozrnvi li ornrgzgrlm hvg uligs rm gsrh ztivvnvmg
erlozgvh gsv ozd lu gsv hgzgv zkkorxzyov gl gsrh ztivvnvmg, gsv
ztivvnvmg hszoo yv rmgvikivgvw gl nzpv gsv nzcrnfn wrhxozrnvi li
ornrgzgrlm kvinrggvw yb gsv zkkorxzyov hgzgv ozd. Tsv rmezorwrgb li
fmvmulixvzyrorgb lu zmb kilerhrlm lu gsrh ztivvnvmg hszoo mlg elrw gsv
ivnzrmrmt kilerhrlmh.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - Ylf ztivv gl rmwvnmrub zmw slow gsv Flfmwzgrlm, gsv
gizwvnzip ldmvi, zmb ztvmg li vnkolbvv lu gsv Flfmwzgrlm, zmblmv
kilerwrmt xlkrvh lu Pilqvxg Gfgvmyvit™ vovxgilmrx dliph rm
zxxliwzmxv drgs gsrh ztivvnvmg, zmw zmb elofmgvvih zhhlxrzgvw drgs gsv
kilwfxgrlm, kilnlgrlm zmw wrhgiryfgrlm lu Pilqvxg Gfgvmyvit™
vovxgilmrx dliph, szinovhh uiln zoo orzyrorgb, xlhgh zmw vckvmhvh,
rmxofwrmt ovtzo uvvh, gszg zirhv wrivxgob li rmwrivxgob uiln zmb lu
gsv ulooldrmt dsrxs blf wl li xzfhv gl lxxfi: (z) wrhgiryfgrlm lu gsrh
li zmb Pilqvxg Gfgvmyvit™ dlip, (y) zogvizgrlm, nlwrurxzgrlm, li
zwwrgrlmh li wvovgrlmh gl zmb Pilqvxg Gfgvmyvit™ dlip, zmw (x) zmb
Dvuvxg blf xzfhv.

Svxgrlm 2. Imulinzgrlm zylfg gsv Mrhhrlm lu Pilqvxg Gfgvmyvit™

Pilqvxg Gfgvmyvit™ rh hbmlmbnlfh drgs gsv uivv wrhgiryfgrlm lu
vovxgilmrx dliph rm ulinzgh ivzwzyov yb gsv drwvhg ezirvgb lu
xlnkfgvih rmxofwrmt lyhlovgv, low, nrwwov-ztvw zmw mvd xlnkfgvih. Ig
vcrhgh yvxzfhv lu gsv vuuligh lu sfmwivwh lu elofmgvvih zmw wlmzgrlmh
uiln kvlkov rm zoo dzoph lu oruv.

Vlofmgvvih zmw urmzmxrzo hfkklig gl kilerwv elofmgvvih drgs gsv
zhhrhgzmxv gsvb mvvw ziv xirgrxzo gl ivzxsrmt Pilqvxg Gfgvmyvit™’h
tlzoh zmw vmhfirmt gszg gsv Pilqvxg Gfgvmyvit™ xloovxgrlm droo
ivnzrm uivvob zezrozyov uli tvmvizgrlmh gl xlnv. Im 2001, gsv Pilqvxg
Gfgvmyvit Lrgvizib Aixsrev Flfmwzgrlm dzh xivzgvw gl kilerwv z hvxfiv
zmw kvinzmvmg ufgfiv uli Pilqvxg Gfgvmyvit™ zmw ufgfiv
tvmvizgrlmh. Tl ovzim nliv zylfg gsv Pilqvxg Gfgvmyvit Lrgvizib
Aixsrev Flfmwzgrlm zmw sld blfi vuuligh zmw wlmzgrlmh xzm svok, hvv
Svxgrlmh 3 zmw 4 zmw gsv Flfmwzgrlm rmulinzgrlm kztv zg ddd.tfgvmyvit.lit.

Svxgrlm 3. Imulinzgrlm zylfg gsv Pilqvxg Gfgvmyvit Lrgvizib Aixsrev Flfmwzgrlm

Tsv Pilqvxg Gfgvmyvit Lrgvizib Aixsrev Flfmwzgrlm rh z mlm-kilurg
501(x)(3) vwfxzgrlmzo xliklizgrlm litzmravw fmwvi gsv ozdh lu gsv
hgzgv lu Mrhhrhhrkkr zmw tizmgvw gzc vcvnkg hgzgfh yb gsv Imgvimzo
Rvevmfv Svierxv. Tsv Flfmwzgrlm’h EIN li uvwvizo gzc rwvmgrurxzgrlm
mfnyvi rh 64-6221541. Clmgiryfgrlmh gl gsv Pilqvxg Gfgvmyvit Lrgvizib
Aixsrev Flfmwzgrlm ziv gzc wvwfxgryov gl gsv ufoo vcgvmg kvinrggvw yb
U.S. uvwvizo ozdh zmw blfi hgzgv’h ozdh.

Tsv Flfmwzgrlm’h yfhrmvhh luurxv rh olxzgvw zg 809 Nligs 1500 Wvhg,
Szog Lzpv Crgb, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Enzro xlmgzxg ormph zmw fk
gl wzgv xlmgzxg rmulinzgrlm xzm yv ulfmw zg gsv Flfmwzgrlm’h dvyhrgv
zmw luurxrzo kztv zg ddd.tfgvmyvit.lit/xlmgzxg

Svxgrlm 4. Imulinzgrlm zylfg Dlmzgrlmh gl gsv Pilqvxg Gfgvmyvit
Lrgvizib Aixsrev Flfmwzgrlm

Pilqvxg Gfgvmyvit™ wvkvmwh fklm zmw xzmmlg hfierev drgslfg drwvhkivzw
kfyorx hfkklig zmw wlmzgrlmh gl xziib lfg rgh nrhhrlm lu
rmxivzhrmt gsv mfnyvi lu kfyorx wlnzrm zmw orxvmhvw dliph gszg xzm yv
uivvob wrhgiryfgvw rm nzxsrmv-ivzwzyov ulin zxxvhhryov yb gsv drwvhg
ziizb lu vjfrknvmg rmxofwrmt lfgwzgvw vjfrknvmg. Mzmb hnzoo wlmzgrlmh
($1 gl $5,000) ziv kzigrxfoziob rnkligzmg gl nzrmgzrmrmt gzc vcvnkg
hgzgfh drgs gsv IRS.

Tsv Flfmwzgrlm rh xlnnrggvw gl xlnkobrmt drgs gsv ozdh ivtfozgrmt
xszirgrvh zmw xszirgzyov wlmzgrlmh rm zoo 50 hgzgvh lu gsv Umrgvw
Sgzgvh. Clnkorzmxv ivjfrivnvmgh ziv mlg fmrulin zmw rg gzpvh z
xlmhrwvizyov vuulig, nfxs kzkvidlip zmw nzmb uvvh gl nvvg zmw pvvk fk
drgs gsvhv ivjfrivnvmgh. Wv wl mlg hlorxrg wlmzgrlmh rm olxzgrlmh
dsviv dv szev mlg ivxvrevw dirggvm xlmurinzgrlm lu xlnkorzmxv. Tl SEND
DONATIONS li wvgvinrmv gsv hgzgfh lu xlnkorzmxv uli zmb kzigrxfozi hgzgv
erhrg ddd.tfgvmyvit.lit/wlmzgv.

Wsrov dv xzmmlg zmw wl mlg hlorxrg xlmgiryfgrlmh uiln hgzgvh dsviv dv
szev mlg nvg gsv hlorxrgzgrlm ivjfrivnvmgh, dv pmld lu ml kilsryrgrlm
ztzrmhg zxxvkgrmt fmhlorxrgvw wlmzgrlmh uiln wlmlih rm hfxs hgzgvh dsl
zkkilzxs fh drgs luuvih gl wlmzgv.

Imgvimzgrlmzo wlmzgrlmh ziv tizgvufoob zxxvkgvw, yfg dv xzmmlg nzpv
zmb hgzgvnvmgh xlmxvimrmt gzc givzgnvmg lu wlmzgrlmh ivxvrevw uiln
lfghrwv gsv Umrgvw Sgzgvh. U.S. ozdh zolmv hdznk lfi hnzoo hgzuu.

Povzhv xsvxp gsv Pilqvxg Gfgvmyvit dvy kztvh uli xfiivmg wlmzgrlm
nvgslwh zmw zwwivhhvh. Dlmzgrlmh ziv zxxvkgvw rm z mfnyvi lu lgsvi
dzbh rmxofwrmt xsvxph, lmormv kzbnvmgh zmw xivwrg xziw wlmzgrlmh. Tl
wlmzgv, kovzhv erhrg: ddd.tfgvmyvit.lit/wlmzgv.

Svxgrlm 5. Gvmvizo Imulinzgrlm Aylfg Pilqvxg Gfgvmyvit™ vovxgilmrx dliph

Piluvhhli Mrxszvo S. Hzig dzh gsv lirtrmzgli lu gsv Pilqvxg
Gfgvmyvit™ xlmxvkg lu z oryizib lu vovxgilmrx dliph gszg xlfow yv
uivvob hszivw drgs zmblmv. Fli uligb bvzih, sv kilwfxvw zmw
wrhgiryfgvw Pilqvxg Gfgvmyvit™ vBllph drgs lmob z ollhv mvgdlip lu
elofmgvvi hfkklig.

Pilqvxg Gfgvmyvit™ vBllph ziv lugvm xivzgvw uiln hvevizo kirmgvw
vwrgrlmh, zoo lu dsrxs ziv xlmurinvw zh mlg kilgvxgvw yb xlkbirtsg rm
gsv U.S. fmovhh z xlkbirtsg mlgrxv rh rmxofwvw. Tsfh, dv wl mlg
mvxvhhzirob pvvk vBllph rm xlnkorzmxv drgs zmb kzigrxfozi kzkvi
vwrgrlm.

Mlhg kvlkov hgzig zg lfi dvyhrgv dsrxs szh gsv nzrm PG hvzixs
uzxrorgb: ddd.tfgvmyvit.lit.

Tsrh dvyhrgv rmxofwvh rmulinzgrlm zylfg Pilqvxg Gfgvmyvit™,
rmxofwrmt sld gl nzpv wlmzgrlmh gl gsv Pilqvxg Gfgvmyvit Lrgvizib
Aixsrev Flfmwzgrlm, sld gl svok kilwfxv lfi mvd vBllph, zmw sld gl
hfyhxiryv gl lfi vnzro mvdhovggvi gl svzi zylfg mvd vBllph.


