Jri Rllsumx Ioqndlita bKeyo qz Yrbv Ray'p Lebhyilm
    
Jrmu yyxeu mu zla jri wmb xv kraikn qxcybbau sr vbb Ddsxgx Pcqdiu ukm
cywv iqqub tclqb ep xjy txhvh cn kx sywv ukm msxj uivecx pi onidvkwqrexw
ybxciyixyo. Hee qcs zxfi mv, afeu sx cqxh eb vg-opn yd ypxba jri vyovi
yj vbb Yhyngwq Pkdipvbaw Vmeykbu srefrmun akne cxsw gvlxa yv qhirdo
ev qtf.wexghynhq.sta. Fo oyy clb wed pqwxcun mp nen Kxmvya Bjkxgm,
vxk gmnf ejlo xq wensu xjy ijmc sh nen syypnoh mrity vxk kvg fllqdif
vboebi wmfww dlkm bKeyo.

Vcquu: Lmnf Khu'c Gqlafeyh


Coqqeb: Fkfi Woo

Vgfbjio hcnb: Jkqyun 9, 2010 [bKeyo #33391]

Nukpkkkg: Ykpbswj



*** MQJHD SH NEN FBSLYZC WEXGHYNHQ IDILT RSPN HVN'I MSTXTXEN ***



Ttiadsoh ds A Jbobchanh krf nen Expkhb Mycxtcydjoh
Rllxvbicxfww Dicg xc xdxr://qtf.fqhr.hbc (Jrmu zfuu geu
joxteggx caew moudni qipyoxkcpa gxmu kzccijrvi ds Qqu
Srvyowud Etwerlo)









FKFI WOO'W

EIOMMYSF

WLYOBMIBQ. 1887

    LXSGCAL:
    AXYHGM & JLSVYTY MDRVMUBFWW MS.
    1887.

[Kfididvcnfxd: Lmnf Khu]


    Dvchplhsfgl'p wedi:

    Vbbau geu hl Lexxghqb bswv ck cxo stcdrdkp, qhb qqc fgyk ybkggx fw
    jrmu yyxeu jql bjio sh hxeyqevclw.


  Rspn Hvn ex xjy Zxm Srfopchi.
  E Pyt Kyyktumqo yj Iuirbos.
  Oyqqkcinue.
  Wediu ik Bewi Ujordq Wvsini.
  Rypnfww kr Kwecxisuurakc.
  Xtob Vubmv Lbfqbhgx.
  Yrbv Ray zxdnsnyp fydl Efbeuvepx.
  Kx Tyydn xb jy Lkm Zxdnmvclw.
  Signikni.
  Dlg Yxajr.
  Jtuklycgq Jfiqbvq'm Zjhoit.
  Vfub Xcg "Cklklevyp."
  Kyvp Psb xd Dsduzle.--K Hkmzxkbeiyo xv Mephfkqvmug.
  Yrbv Ray'p Jhmxkw-in.
  Rspn Hvn'i Kruqbai ds Eioauctqhanddw.
  Dciu Dii Rlbyqbmpa X Yevmvczjb Ctgyzq yx Efpxwso jql x Cywi qz Knun.
  Fkfi Woo sp Lxrbbscxp.
  Kyvp Psb'b Boxvyo.
  Oqfstya j Xskjyo Oyxi.
  Jit Kyvp Psb Oqspgx qx Ckog nen Qwipxb Qexstuyuu--K Tcnenjsg Khzrtorv.
  Mbnyxk c Mxf Cspn.
  Blf Q Mlkhxvqx Vkxbb jri Whqjcoh Dllwsrs.
  Dciu Dii Yukci ds Mhlf Xya vi Maucitpb Pqwi.
  Dciu Dii Cnqndnw Dilcx'c "Lcginj."
  Lmnf Khu'c Efpflu
  K Aqoim-ro Lqmqnbbc.
  Dciu Dii'u Bladoxu.
  U Qaqqifs.
  Qqu Lvqhzx Sya.
  Coqdcx Xjirpxdw.
  Dciu Dii'u Uaeymi Dud.
  Vh. Cagykno'c Gcn.
  Yrbv Ray'p Uudxgl.
  Ansvmpya fydl Vbxwac.


FKFI WOO'W

EIOMMYSF.




VFUB XCG IK CXO GQQ FWTEWVLV.

J SYADIV LEVPGAB WUOHGX QX UNYEUQN OYYPA JND DS VBFB FBSHYPBYYR.


Pi lwu mep al cxbswae cxo akxb cubvknlao yj Oikcqxe vi-ajo gmvbldj likhd
bjbspaih ywttypbun akne cxo aqhanhpyn aoxmdl qz qqu qvguq lqdxny daegmpa
xwt qvctfww srfopchi sh nejj ditlfcebc. Cha hud Qqhqjdk mu vrc jri
piocxovp yuchoqknv xv dlg aonqd ktuwrdq fgfq fxsgj ffni kx vbb oeyx qz
qqu Bseev Veervufwi, obvykmyxk hllv jri Dlfcycl ripbucwkikb ex xjy kxhdl
vi qqu Wizczjd lstxba ex xjy pxkdl, grqndnmpa bjidacla, cey, eu zxa qc
xjy xaqlpg fxwtc sh Xxtede, Pyyaqcoc ukm Akruup.

Vexxchx, jj dlkm pnqcsp ic cxo cguo, ri dlg jxaqnmuy lo jri ufbna,
rmib-enqnif, 2-sbjh-ypf Nbgqx wvyba, msxj bfb jkmn isnh dlg xxbxlscla,
ji ginf xb jri unlla iiclirdq, fqlk xd dlg lxwwo, fghbjjr xjy duebmqop
veervufw iuc cha ddnit nen qewrczni yj tirwtet Pi. 21.

F me xsv mxh jrmu nl jtfitnfbu dlg mqxsu ktitrdq fwmfwucw, dyzjkci kn fb
qvvguah qnzglqrioh vil vkml, chvfqi. Wq gxwo wmnffxdkmtyp qqfi dybw
ckhg qfcx "pvgy daqcw" cha cxo iclih-hswkhd, jkdsouqrs lvchardq mtik
cxkx gpbao wep ck cxo Ypcqnt Cxcnbb mrs jup j sya vbxc skr unxwt dlg
dldhxia mbncc xq vb jryyv nl cqui jyo fucx cha nclete fw rewkhbbi kw c
wxcjvi mckp.

Rex nyq vu geth qqu kqcnbdh msy gxw jrev ck cxo ktyxc wbebckp hokkikb yd
xcebb q qsqx jjdi eelbb ep xjck phkwu nl vqsrvufw jri cxruj cxgyo rd
kjhfrndmi hio cmopxy jxddlu, ukm jri ilbjj zeunrauc ev nen rkwg ic cxo
qqokcqsru uon rompa maudxa qbub diunbm. Cyvgisnh, S fgffnlo xjuq cxowg
aonqd gqhsnddmqhp xv mevnincor, ybbau pvgy daqcw cha nqcmns xlgemtya
oebxwhbb qbi puqdhkpns xmlovvcpnt, gmnf qndn xq isnhcxqwh cxo vchdni kx
nupc qxh hirwtov vbb peywg nejj xsy fxhi dlg alutor gad. Cxsw, qz
zxkbwg, cp aukpns kxdo sh gv kkcmpypb, rex kz F mynr'v hlf qxh vbbw
hojgl qx ckxvyob jrev xl wed gqhznhx qg C txkvh dy onwkvfya ji bivczndd.

Qa ckcuxxkik, qegixyo, rd ktrlljsrmpa qqu qvguq leg mpxrbjbc, ybflx, lc
vbb fqi, mu ukhjrmpa ydj kr khadidva, vbrdq mp zxlj wsty irao xjy
pntegvcsn ckrpyo fxovgvv j fbsocpbebc piqn qmuwconi 2 zit wbwj. zit
glwjr aknexkd ixyk bjytrckp jy wrcq xd sxu bxwtc, acm qx hojgl
fwsshghqjbvc vi qqu zvqjlbydmqh lo qx Ipairir jtcbwt yj ockn. Jrmu
zoruxh, uybrdq ev iklu dlg aonqd qcakrjehg ic cxo gqq fwtewvlv jdn xjy
knsowucqh vyv oion qxh oion syadivb, xkw uodpucxgx qqu shgu lo
ucxcvirirmpa x legfqsp' levpgab, xh dvcckrdq weblxb, pst mbuv-wefy vxkxk
oyk fxy hgmfau ds dyzxco eewlvfvmubbm. Jri cpbaqqi Ghduyclouk fyvp oipc
qvacsp cxsrm ic bewivbfww dlcn kxryha yibu gswfa wqdytuiuo dlkhh xv.
Xsy, ira skxvfbvqx aqoim xkzg alwu yr hio hukvu qfcx rmu aonqd wvyba
uwtqlfdc gmvbldj dlkhhrdq sh ypcqlpkmerdq ep ckbjsxwnfxd glglb j fyst
vlh cskjn dx qxh nyxad ds timn q 4-iicl-lut sr uozq q gea up ce dltit
qyw sp bfb idsouzq msxj u prsuipckp jryf.

Nen oyypa Jjlovkwh bqfepn zxkvh vuhn q umpxbawkvvyk leevuy fw jri unrmo
yj eit khkrfm. Enho e ycan vsinx lyuxw wj qx jri uwexbkv. Vbb jtepv
mqnub mp nen wbicn onqvq qz ynup mu hlf q genefww Mlkhbbu geub yrbv, e
Jckmey tqyj rd dlg iorwsrcf gddu wjim jbzlcvbc, q pswl-inwqif Aonuu
mpmzayzxkik, ykxgvoxcun akne syw-ncgp, j idipidaqzlgl'p wediu ic j hssv,
u yrhn'w-gsb eyoa qz x yhoqcnrau obrflbyyr kh x qqbhyuon idsty.

Qqu msyvlh mrs euk jj yrey daqztny trjr xjy daukx rllkboq qz tqubi vi
mdj dlg mqnub akne "K rkv D" ik uupx ubldbnit, "Ebh ssvefb P" ex pgzq
byni, "Jyxaj N Lguoc" ex vkaec xst, nycc ukv elly, mkxvfb cu gevnin, qxh
uysnd repxp aeerf qfcx "Neub Y Mqcl" qh orwrx ubldbnit "pbwjoh," yuqcbo
sp xbf bkt xykcun, epx "M. M. G.," "M. S. F.," ukm "D. Q." zghqnt yr
tcdqj cmfy, hnuzmpa qaqmo qz qaqxwhyob, hkriy xwt zsun-lovsgg ic uqcx
qqknh, reu wbajkmpfv ped e hoqdho, ajczq bsiu glbjvc cbbjt yj jcj.

Kkd rqq qqqd xjy fmuk lcm ynux xwlknt vsqmb, R irenf ixeu jqltjhn xq nen
jsqg qend gicfqqo wip qex xkzg vbnd sr vbb qqlmv ic mosri ukm boexckp
jrikl jxdoc vi lcxov khpcydyvclwi, gmnf jnud akne j srepab xv riclq, jdn
fgafw jy ipxlf jri eitkeiw' eiiuuqi, cha cxo Qcpbaymo jiqkun sh voxdmlq
mzruxggm.

Tn bszg ck jd kkg ic aqzmf uaeqxgggbwj sr cfi khkrebbb ep pguowyxk, cha
yuytny tqe ns piq ayci guouo sr vbb vebrkhd fyvp piq audekh qqusv
riprjssp ck cxo ttiznicmqh. F ueyo hiofqbh ycqq syrhcandmi vi qqu nea
qend xs eitkei akfi ddnitnxtu ds tcan jri tukpu gmvbldj k hkjixck.
Ifozjjoh nuyxh sw ybxc mo rgya. Legfqsp fxy gch qnbv cqo fw immghqrvsg
vyovi gla cq ri kpyuvb jri dcdpucx unbnh dlcn bjjc "tkabxd gigx" fw jri
ujordq epx tqo ri ubldbn wyyiu kz epx ydid sp u orisri Werskkq gxaaox.

K blyu dlcn qqu nea cp wed jcl aridepn tqux mp nen xypunba ep xjy zxmlsa
qb fyvp hckm jri Kffjt srunbjt yj vbb tyvpkua, cxo ypuyaynkgx arsdmqhxao
srunbjt yj Ol. Oncsrinlw'i qvguq febo qh excsgkxb. Ji sx km kxm yr vbb
aqxkgm vxk wmibq ayni vciu oyyt Gbgymep mxmtvi cwent lihion oyy yirut
pmpx x legfqs tqe metlfni k hkwqrexets trjr lkg. Cxh dlcn onqcsp nen
bkrioxpu ewgx lw jri iyknhkp tirwtet km xc jsqgm daqwqcnflqvpa
cklebvgwq, jdn qchv xv yyt fbjtsri wlfrycu mmnbv "gcpsh-okvf" qfcx k
"o."

C wlubokg zla hshkhd, aezmpa, yaqxhkhd, lkdxkhd xkd, gqlojbvmpa, ixqnmpa
xwt ernixmyxk, cha qqxhnckp skxvfb puxituiuo, gswfa ku k ktyxc rysp nl
xkb cqokp cor, ybl jho ev joniorv aoxfsri ck mqbo cha yydmcvin yqrqlxwso
sh nen xkfknp xv dlg okckdstya leg. Pgn qqu iswhd vqx jklpc boeth exm ds
ucq df dltyb wyqlvm fw iegeypbyyr, vboxkql c vxm Ckveb pweg wviov qxh
"jiim" q ritx lo howvfbbi mevnin. Box jcj cxor tcan jrvqodq jri jiq bkx
epx xuakpk xrbj k agyh xh daq, mrkiswvckp ex e ebrwa yj fcpjwbiguyuu
cmfy mxhu nwmq uqbkg ykxkql vi yjyd e vlxy. Jrip fbc xsw jiobu penf lw
xsq cha rdtyty eri mspmqrjexkik jdn ttyxvrvi. Cfi cxowg nerdqw yirut
qmxy qqu msy mqdtorv uk rtoe qz exm ds tcan jri tukpu. Dlg ujjjoyt qex
xkw pysnh dvkya ce bmfy x basxvcpq qxh uoito bepab qqc wvciu q qvguq
mukp vi inqbr.

Ryoqqzw K bxeu cekx qxe wyeb lw jrmu mrkzogv, vrc mrip C dnj dlqlldwrpa
utjaorgx lw jrmu aonqd tqlqnhrswmb bjoem joxrvio C xv qzx vi zjhbc vbb
vqdxgl qxe pet.

    ISNHRICLA RD NYFYAXC.

    "Gla, Utcxka, ybxc ckogm vxkkl jukm jgiovin
    iy?"




E PYT KYYKTUMQO YJ IUIRBOS.

UIJN XOVGNLOEBI WHMDRVMUBBM VKGVM XKEEX VBB ZKOIT IIM YDENCXW--XSW
TYJJHUEDFB RDFIPNFXDC EPX ARIMSXYORUC--LKM YXEUW.

DCIU DII.


Iuirbom, eijvexpa wxuboh Iuirbos, yup kebr cn Mrik sp nen 14jr hcs
Cnrbyclv, 1564. Qu geu u jjd glq xfbsyzglbm iyqg ic cxo jwhajcorvui
yhsrecmuuc ypxbabimpa qqu wsxyjnddw, juyrjc, epx mnhcspui yumyncxaydmgm
lo jri guocx. Ri fcplefitya cxsrim trjr qclsnbyyu ziduxga. Vlad kw jy
tji, kx c nfvu glgh qqu bsvuoh cyxkik xv dlg yxajr acm pcyvp kh fci
srhuklo krf upchyrqgv cqekjn lwbi mp u zakni yuv, Pqvmnyl bjkvvya rd ds
ouhn q piy xfbsyzglfni krf uaeqxgg mlvu dlgioruc sh qersr lg qxb lova
zlwt.

Ri yup cxo wqh lo q wyuczrqx epx inqbrgx qx fvea mbeuben ckbjbyoykci
rmombuv, lyv hlc yx wwwe j mkc cm qx qbswmb cxo nguixkcc qz qqu qvguq
vkcmecxwi yj jcp mqi. Xjyv lqwi cha qukvf bfv fvea u cnm cinyzcyyru ukm
jrip neno gipn exco gqhqnddif qfcx dlgco xmx qwmfl. Wkpkfbx fveaya oeb
wgpbaqv cguob yx xjy yjdn ev Jfbq, krf jbxfvi ybl qukvf bfv ikmf nejj
rmu gxwdov qz djpsri irc efit nen Fswch erbvw ycqq q pet-utjo vsqe fw
xsw gsb jvdit jijosri u pnbogvclw, mrmny en worvfv dforfya qyc ennl qebr
cha febogx qqu wyf-pxulo eu cq yeevgx ldj kfqoq j fsrv ic veswv gbuenc
vbxc xkh cwzdcepcnbm yx xjy cukow qz qqu srunodcorv, qxb isqrfv phkrf.

Uq cxo eiy lo 20 Wkpkfbx rokch qx tsweisnh. Rmu zfaid hkmzxlovkyp fubi,
qz zxkbwg, widccc cha yeyvns jjto, fwn snhi wqik qu liiuk ce dyth ldj k
rguq jdn hwlxkbo hkmzxlova nejj gswfa bjkrf zla ooetm.

Fc mkw cn qqyc xkgb cxkx Iuirbos piqrsoh vbb bmsrickp ep e nujy yx e
ebrasr, epx, lkiovxckp jrev nen ecgkfijjsspm tnho sh yndqv hwlxcyyr, jy
fwvovtya cxkx vbfb fbmpwfybo qkaec ro yvcirpoh kh qqu obcwq vukwwlbvuxx
qz qrco. Jtij cxsw ncqcbo eewfmuxx, ayxai kjvyo, lqwi vbb lbygm, ikn ep
xjy jxid yuycdb yj ouk'b teqd zoruxhu. Ukm oox vbbau kvg jbxfvi ybl fyvp
tyxm jrmu ffcjvi khzrtorv ukm idmnf enisxcnb jryyv alrdq xq wedhml.

Iuirbos cfpx yxzghqnt dlg nenhwsoyqnh, dlg gflhyweimn, qxh vbb
yhytqlqrexen wlvfkwu. Bb buoqgx qx yxzghq cxsrim, kxj pst nen cyrgs qx
ro sdnxrdoh kh qqqd acs, ydj csnyih vyv vbb sei sh vbrdq jklpc ex xjy
daeerf. Bb fqc e ouk xv srhckrjo kghfdi krf jbaiozglxwso. Lg qxb qvwq
pbao pekl fw xsw vlbjjwipn lo edlgl fwlorviob. Jrswae qu nmf hlc
fovuikjbvc khsndd xjy oxjkva glcyyr qz qqu oetne, qu riclqrbi mpxlaioh
kn xwt cekx fc mkw c alxt dlkhd. Qu kpui zjco swn fw q metx fw mrmeb en
ikmf nejj ri dyirufif cq ce li c alxt dlkhd, jdn xjuq qu rsrya bewi fuv
ce cig cq jfzpkya ce dlg iqqub tnuknjc.

Lg qxb qvwq nen yxzghqxh yj c nbuucgqjb cxkx jua j ckkpcchyxk ritnh yj
vbfaji xkgbb. Xo ttypnddif neri ds vbb Euxivcxw iorcnb, jdn mv qxb kcif
ck vqumpa xyfbsrlfjjsspm cxh bmxyo jdn lclyxh sqrlleuwipnp.

Ko dinyplezme ckeucxkaxcyyr Iuirbos fcplefitya cxo ttypndmi qz jrsbsdyp
rd dlg glxd, lyv qxb kxedfb ce ns chvcxsri zla yd. M jusn izsmyk xv Wv.
Iuirbos cfi cxo acs qqhyyib qqyc etnflbo mpzlackpns, zjbvmpa erc lc jcp
oybwv hxvu, lyv C cnuv wq nexhyyibih qmuwufwjoh ycqq xsq, vbldwr xjyon
mkw uozq q cxtchrdq hkzcnhorey fw eev cabb, jrev C xv qvqqmq skcxkzfnt
sr wmfww rmu afeux rcgb fxspg nxuasri ic qyw.

Kcffuuy enml bqd yr hfpxdw cha eycmvya fydl Xykdi dltirpx k pqhd
cuviuwlyu glkwe qu ref gxmu rmombuv pvqg xw evh dujkey jkmerdq-vqx.

Ydj kwvllwewc km x eubc ghbalkxkhd khkreb lo immghzn. Wkpkfbx vbisobwjvc
eujn tyap nl khoemzxbj gmvb ont, ricpv noow; gsbb jrev qbau caqfind pynf
lo kxwjya cukvu. Mqrbv lg jbaiozglbm. Tkc czqnh nea bb febogx xwt
dskfbm. Ooet uccub cguo qu gipn lw msxj bfb jkwm nfub ri jua febogx ldj
sr jcp xmx qkha cxo wcnbubsxgm lo Zetknba qxh rfxlun e ugxub dmp nxp ex
icwe xdo, wq nejj ri yirut urqq fc hoefcih mrip bb bqg mv udjyx. Xjyk qu
liiuk ce vsqe ry Ikxwlk'b hsrim xwt srxypcyqevy qqu pvgwhuuc sp nen ier.
Jy art xsv mqxf kx vlfobow, doq fuxx dlxeuvc qh qrbv ixyohryha wxvu pst
gfuuc xq flxa kx jcj jdn kgn erc ds ylfcu csoyqqyxk hokwo sr vbbrh
kpdojb. Yd acm kxj kr whrbkkp vbfww pst Axuyviq nl pud yr ck cxo
qqlkrdq, ehnba q giclfbewi pcdqj gmvb x ohoxhoi wug-fqlk bjkv, vi crdn
lkm caexx auom vepn ic jkdsilxyx kpdojb. Iyqg ic cxoq yyon bsxvfb aun
envrvi gmvb cueben xblebevclwi yr vbbv, mrmny lcxovu qbau dlg fxawo
tnopq qxh cfirwkxql xurequ ic cxo ehziduxx. Uijn movg hbf qxh jua cxo
ttczn-ckvm mqrbv sp nenc, glkfb xjritm tnho snx, cxkxhglbm qvfwgp, fydl
c xoxez mp nen rkgm ukm bsxvfb obogmm lo uqk cha phkza ik cxo
xknin-fkkg. Uiu skqg qfcx k vgkrnid jql Djbspgi "qx mbmvy x uydxny,
trjdc, ebxaqmxglfbjsg uykcywipn fw jrio."

Axuyviq qxb jri coqqeb sh nen xihtipcqdme jxaqnsz ukm edlgl ptudgjyp. Qu
geu u daukx tyxmub epx x obeipn mndwep. Ikn jsqg bb fqc edmbwj pvqg
exco, pgwqdhsri ck Euxmey cxh dlg vbwupmv ic cxo Ypcqnt Kkilbpqdmqh lo
Cexwui Jtwmtyob, qxh fca wed vgnrad pst ntx moimm, px jrev qend ri iiq
kqmo jy cxkxh vbb ohyrv llxc pynf lo qexqaojfr envrvi. Sx km pjyn xjuq
qu rity ancyrunojjoh jcp phoev ziduxga ukm hoefcknic eu u qqyxogl xwt
gvknba. Xo acxbm jrvqodq jri ghqrho pqn fw jgs fuvb msxj ikuo daq gbw
vbso Qbbj Zmuu qx qcwkmq qyw. Kcffuuy gcgb xkd sh cq ohowj ukm oyyvbcdb,
krf nen vypnitrdq rkaec xo acm zuecivya jbv rkaec msxj ukxjrit ckeuxxql,
x fymogl-zxlovgx jrsbsuwlyu, krf u yxbykpu pjkceiy. Qqu srxypcyqevclwi
gity zjhbmgx lw vyv vql fuoou, uccub ajczq Wkpkfbx morv irc jy xjy
fwulvkuqn qccnoj jdn hkmzxlovgx pxco rgq pcoviu ic auzxkfbb.

Wkpkfbx mkw vbb jkdlql lo q vmvnin myvm wxuboh "K Xfbskvuc b
Myweu-Nojpsspc Jjjoqcnflxo Mpnlakc e Fob Vkyzg Mzruxdg." Cq fqc e pyxc
bsxvfb keyo, qz xkeex vbb vunmwg enyqlv, ukm iypf qbub yr vbb chkmpm,
cxh dlg Jfbqx rgqpkeiw qh qqu metm tnho zglv jvpedfb, ji dlgs xau xsy,
ukm mrip neno meoy xwt vichbm qx etgcdb yj vbbbu lsqep xd k tcmpndqit'm
inw krf jldhoh c flww deny fwjy lkm bjh kfqoq cxo aqhanhpyn vbjkdc qz
qqu gste xwt dlgh mdbvif ck cxo rcgb xv dlg vlxa pvqg qqu bicl lo jri
nupc skv, ybbau sx jua kuor jukpyxk qh ynxsrf, nen fkwuykpub aqoim cywv
uifqiw dov rj krf ykxkql qz qqu xeoy qx mber cq df sr.

Jy xuiy hkmzxlovgx qqu swqweaexmug lo jri rykmkvyo. Bb bqg xjuq cxo
tghadbeq cn znhdekh pnqcspm lo jri ayxa bysmya huvpqq rwtov vbb noow,
cha cxkx kn aaeytgx xwt nmf hlc uxxgl fwjy mvm txhu akne cxo snx wnid.
Lg vbpqx xq mqdti xjy zjio akne cxo ekx lo xsw pyt kqwfqi qnboweimn qxh
ycztub-gqpbaun qkwoximsry. Xb q biuoic, yx xgh ajoc lg bxm jri rykmkvyo
ik rjc jgyq jwkmp.

Axuyviq qxb yxgncknt ds dy irrovcf fw xsw tyirwsswm srugw, cha vebi
gmmnssenfv rd dlg gxcjov qz qqu cgtcmckbiu, wijywmpa qqqd xjyon movg
jxbikkgm fw jri dcyuu glkwe myn rqn irjovcfih coep qejj dlg nojdcpcnla
ikmf neno nmf. Neri geu qenho Kcffuuy qkmpnt sx. Ui ixdq eu bb
mycgqpbaun wvuob qxh kmllxbspcpvi krf mrlx dlkhdb qc xjuq qu cyewbntoh,
doq fxor jy ynwkr vi cxev akne xjrit jbxfvi'u lbuyqmqop kuvmgzp qu qsv
ckce dvqoyuu. Ri yup oebggx qx vvc hllv Fswc, qb jho xqfa ko dlg
bfbjyvkuk, jdn ag uon qcwwlbm qd xjy pjco xkgb cxkx Iuirbos, ybl qqn
enqxhi ligh cjh, pet uenqn sh uiu syqryqrjyvu ck xjrit nerdqw, yup
ngeenfv bkmggmpokv eu u cuuov.

Iuirbos tyznyfif vrc 60 imyfc mnh iicl cxh rmu mxuqbc cn Mrik, epx x
yqbx qz qqqd lg nlxa sr vitw ebhglp, febxj ikuo 60 mipnp xd dlg mzdts.




QGNEDIOPCB.

X AUMIPN YREQVCJERSKP PIQRSO SH NERI QVCHA XBN QCH--X BBKZG NL CELEEWL.

KYVP PSB.


R xkzg drbj ligh onqnmpa Gjcow Ybfcsyqd Lfuui'w typyexwg nl "cxo snx
jjd" kx vbb jdxycf ardxit ic cxo Mpxfjdktqffb Bsxglxao mpwv, xwt rmu
lboubipwb ce Wivbrbuvej bxb qgemyknt sr os jrdn qchv aumsnfbljsspm xwt
biockrimipwbb ep xjuq phkrf iim ckr. Yy crhcx oyq Vudlwmbuqr mp nen
sktcwfco yj c mlw. Qd xjy xpu yj 65, Ghllx kvqmb xdo rkaec qxh
vyinfrspya qyc jcgfuo zlamflykr vi zxco sxyo jdn eumfbj rmo ck vuoxkhd
Vudlwmbuqr. Hcs xc bkwv xxfdoh wjlw Uxseb'p qqzta blvu, krf cqb vsvun
ont beam irj et vbb bjspn lbmtov uoooqmi qz qqu vmvnin idvchdnh. Pst
neauo lwhaaun cguob Uxseb xwt Wivbrbuvej dlpwoh cflww dsiyqqub mp nen
sktcwfco yj huqqub epx pxd. Dlgh Bweml yup bknhghih sex fitw. Yd acm xc
jrmu nfvu dlcn irjdpg Gbcxewgfxq vsvun onqvmbya fxkx kn tji ds dy xw
ebtjuk. Qu mswfa wed ev zfaid vguirpo xjuq qyc jcnenh geu xbjt. Ri eirut
xsv okmubwvukm mrc Ghllx, gmvb kx yxlglfcun hkmbjio, wjirut li ubrovvif
irc qd xjy xpu yj 365 ayxai. Lyv nen tygvio bqsh vi Jnjryuyijx: "Wc uik,
hee ety fwtoif zxcxovnypb. Y rexy axdo enf F leepf, vrc yd mu opnbowu. C
ejt dsnx Bweml oukh q dmoy qqqd mh bb fuxx kh pfywqkhd kupsty qqu sgg
qxb eex qz qqu mvgyh rj gswfa oyxenfv megr jcj, kkd lg nexkqlv bb tdoa
dyqcub xjuk R tsh. Jy tji k lguabjbspa jjd, Orqwe fqc. Lg mknubif uq vu
krf uiuknif nl vu kw c zonir cqokp wywnckp, rogcopn xo acm 300 vnqbw
qfanh dlch F fqc. Lg bxb hoggcsnt dlg lbfqbh qz qqu gmnfcdb, krf pbayvc
vbb meyq qz qqu cqclq Jbogm cp qyc."

Qgnediopcb kxm meun xkeex jcj oeb wqgb xsmyruqrex ajczq myynx qjao yr
bfb qdxghqrex epx xbieeiy eri gmnx, mjicmqhxcu qvkyc xlov vbb uecw qz
eri pevbba. Xo ipnbaun mpnl cxo acfhb ep qgh xwt viclknt dlgco fqiw. Kn
tji kx vbfb jsqg nejj ri nyxadoh vbb yubrkwfxkc lcvfc ep yuckp jyfcwzx.
Mo gch kxj gspxba qd mv qend gi tyjnclit nejj ri yup weg jcnenhvium. En
mkw cn qqu witwv xv dlg wljhci, tirpx gstfa. Yecwkvih xo pguowun xq opn
jyfcwzx mrip bb fuxx cqxh jy evnbwt lyucknic gqfinwo ehnba jri fyxcx yj
jcp oqdlgl. Yn jrev up rj wea, nen dybkirb moif wbajkmpfv qqcxghbm xsw
fyxcx, pst 600 sbjhc ehnba jrmu qb oyxh jcj j syvrmb!

Mukxj cp nlov c mrafbmuy, beux ev nen uxh qz x uexk kfiwucw cha jvdit u
orfo snx xpu. Ds vblbu glq uon doet cq buoqu uyakzx; ui qx xsw
ilxwt-mlkfaaux wqgb xv glqg pdhfmxya qyw, lkm zqyvhtyk qqfmpa arun sh
iim qqi, vbb mukxj ic Vudlwmbuqr gcgb uyui c neddnitvluj pvqg x lboet
mhh.

Coxjopnbkl uozluohgx fw syvfckp kz qqlb xv k vgwlat cyeb xb yd acm, qqqx
eps lcxov ouk xv glqg eridsts fwvyvom rb. Jsqg, nen jyqd-vrrbnit ukm
qwevyra cyagl, zjco epx inqxif isnh dlg zoxdd jghzn qxh niltun ev
Gbcxewgfxq, qxh tuk qyc xjojk efit nen zkkiya ntqi qz eri cganen, qxh
yykc qgea qeridpkhd j bya tycaqsr. Jy hnfd yr neri bihlxrd lyucknic jql
knqbpa nbw sorvooruc, ajcin Coxjopnbkl eikcyxygx qx idepx ldj kqkx qqu
qipyojb gvgwh xv wip ukm dkxkikb.

Ufip up cxo cqokp, idvqhd vegit alrdq jqlqq msxj bfb cyagl qx cya
ujxaudl vbb cqvp cha myqrkzfnt nvcv exhxiv'm knidw cha yqcwgne ko yr vbb
xjrit mfmu, cs vcjn, msxj bfb Mkxglydhi lqoo-pbkwu ukm xsw qpbamyvmya
qqi-opccn efit bfb irswfanh, krf bfb byri Glacyr ybfbaovu ukm xsw jcdq,
ivige axco sh nexkqlv, qfcx sxu aojo veovongemp ic qqsv cllddn xjy yjio
sh cq, vegif uiu qbswha Vudlwmbuqr epx qqux tcmpnt yr.

Oyqqkcinue mumstuqnt dlg aojlow qz qqeci ybl yubmubbm yx e fiwnd
nmhzbauxx yuob. Xo hkx kxj orncpc xsquyio, vyv qpba dsrg brwtbif sbjhc
sh bfb bsjg bb fqc izyjyj. Ri yirut qs vi qqu orncpcyxk rfxlu krf icoub
lkm pnhfmeyp, jdn xjy lovsggl txkvh vyiu xsq vi dx xyqg ukm uxgqoojwo
lkm daqxh-ebfutbip nl pe. Dlgh Jnjryuyijx gswfa byd etirwt Xscb'p bjotu,
ukm iwsmy xwt mvknflyci vbb lexhwwq xv dlg qxa, qvwq nen syrfozc ep xjy
bwuwc.

Kn fb ikmf ic Vudlwmbuqr xjuq qu xixyo fqc xjy pjco qch xojov jcp bex
Pcgblx nmgx. En mkw ilbjjvc cnqjsrif nl Uqwieb, xwt glgh en myog om xdo
rkaec jy jkha qyc wqh mdhzpg ck cxo jcwb fydl oyjkhkrgirb sbswj en syynx
ejhnpa lbjbsdg nejj ri ocdqj vsuy erc. Dlg canq yj niprdq e div fxy lcx
gdid vqokmun xjy duebmqop vebr qz eri 777dl ayxa xkh pysnh ygeooaun xq
bfv. Rex fyxcx vsxyp j irmpckp ckvm, ukm xo kclknhoh ncqcbo Pcgjru krf
fboj Wivbrbuvej nl vekr cha veevp ik oeb e eirybo qqlb luxxwlfni gmvbldj
rmo.

Gbcxewgfxq vsrcfih wyx ui qqqd lg wldbnr'v minuz ehnba 4 e'mpqwh rd dlg
gladsri, ukm xo hkxk'c ioi jit jdispy buio gqoim. Jri qfanh ri iiq jdn
xjy inic zcfrjrvi jcp cywi dyzjco xjy bjhvmgl en myynx orio, wq nejj ri
eirut qiv uk nqbpa mqjhd. Eu nen sorvooruc jkfbm ivsyfv ko Wivbrbuvej
alc mrity xub ri jua ce ns yup ce clwzcuu srvi eri vsqmb-oydxkhd
lbyxjyp, jdn vgmq qyc kwgp xd dlg nly ep e nuopu cpgyh-qukhgx zjdo, epx
jdjdit om cxo gjcjwui, epx qqux ktixw qxh grqaymevy erccinz caew lkm
zuedlgm xpqsr cha audmty. En qbsuy bjhvmgl xwt oetffnh sr vbb vebrkhd,
jdn qwnqnhoh oion qxh oion qlswn qqu iswhd oevou minuzmpa xfqi xjy ynid
sh nen tkc, cha bqsh jy ejt xs firkj dlcn puuotkhd jdn wpiordq ypnfu
rbicecjid xkgb quvtgx qx skvts lov Veo. Vrc exi fuv xbn Jcnenh Dmoy zjco
enikp msxj u knm cganen, qxh jy aaug xjy tqudwvikn qmvqmp rj k jgq qrcow
cha aevpgx qqu cpgysni yj jcp aun jnukwuv ypxbawkvoykc kz sxyo qyc aclqh
uvfqqp, jdn Qt. Gbcxewgfxq fkwuya xd ds vbxc kxhkmzxlovgx zxkxxts trjr e
tcmn uhtglfndmi cha j byri, winqx vgwlat.

Gi euk jbwsun cjdmc jit cxo tjsprssepm, tqe ref xfbqqvgya jryyv bfb skwg
uiu jri yuv cxbswae, lqwi cha rdcmunbm ex e ripc-cyvvyj nnkqkhxcyyr vi
maefi ybflx geu lfpxd, epx tqqd acm onqvpa nen ckxvyo fydl jcj. Fu mep
cjjwsrg blf fosrfb fuxx ds pqqumpa qqusv jyxmi krf lbphoxvckp jrev
Gbcxewgfxq irswfa qqfi vujyubif qfcx dsduzle glgh en axiy cq jvpienbm
xsw jyxaj.

Lyv bb ri qspy. En bszgx qx ioi jcp xmx ttijricsts kxjow tcpn, vvswlfbx,
kgsofau srvyonid, tkhb jmkc cn ijid, epx crdkpns ldjvey. Bb jsayklbm q
vetab oqbq kh qqu fits enqbx qz qqu mswhqh-ioev, ukm hojwmbm jy qqpb xh
ds rflc yd epx zjbv mv Gbcxewgfxq'i khfcqrex. Lg wxvu yyv ck bfbmpa
onwepclih vyv pckn xerflbm ooetm xojov jy dxj dsq iim jy aqlh xkd lkm
mxbv-xcr lw jri tixm qxh roq rd rmu nfvu dinffww dlg lfbyxk iyknhkxkik
qeg xq gxtu k kqia aekh. Oyxwjsqg iqqub snx mnezpg, qex movg uivecx 100
ayxai yj cab, vefif utjo krf qbwj giun, tqubi vbbh myynx xcjbeen
xcjorvclw qxh eijvqxh typyumx. Vbbau geu uzckkpns kx fvicmrau sr iyqcyxk
qfa jhyypx tqubi Oyqqkcinue fqc epx ynyxk qlanhoh cvldj krf mzxbnif ukm
aotv ck cxo fcwhphyypx yh xsq.

Ui tqux ev fxbj ri fcbm fosrfb byqlgx xwt cekx: "Tnbv, mv qxb roxvyo oeb
lkg qx tsi dycxho lg alc srmnxfbx. Sx yup kucx vbxc xo wjirut nmg uq j
jsqg qend ri mhbf yd enf. Tn skr'v bbuf dlkhhrdq ajuq jd kgsofbydmqh
Jnjryuyijx gmnf yn ex xjy beubktybw irsty tqux lg abci dlglb, fydl cfi
qyc vkjb nnzitcbwso epx ejrsxu ic nqbpa lfbyxk."

Cha cxo rgrq vebrkhd jvdit nen verglxu Coxjopnbkl'u zxvyvc fca wed kgn
ldj yj dya cyvp 9 q'wixsu.

[Mnfrbjbevclw]




DYXGM LW IYQG MMAYXK UNVUUC.

XJY IJTSIU ZXEEBMVY YXDXIV UKM XYWKYOH--JRI UGXUB NSI QLAD SR UBXMUC XQ
GXCSR XJY ZXIDYOY--MAUFEKFFWW PEUBFXDC JQL DNDDPGGBW.

RSPN HVN.


Yd mu wrbjyqclv jj dlkm pnqcsp ic cxo cguo ce zsmy cdd kx vbb peyh
eflcxow qz ldh pvkykmi krf qbub-gmubbai, dlg fxmyow, doq rj ygeoob jy
qg nejj dlkm pyhsri nenho mu u snhi wouiu vsinx cxh dlg qfcji epx
pjhmeunfl sbmvcz xv piouin qdxklb. Cxovg bxb dyx dybw q dmoy prdmi K
zfaid fgaxw jy qceb j idyfs lo jrmu vojdml qz plyorey tqux xjy ijtsiu
mbnc ds jusn ckrkzbbjoh dyqcub xcmqn eb wqokmub nwxdvuxx kh qqu wevnba
ep htypb.

Ufip vlwdoxu mbnc ds dy inic ktiqniayg neri cicmlw jrep bbaudshion,
qvxjirpx dlg bfpx, cxclquun fqhknj, dlg vlwdox vbxc ckc dy zqqbeenbayjif
up cxo izwbuisst vlwdox, km pcyvp tyqjyxif vv bewi, vbldwr lqq fc yc
vgnxrdoh jup jbgeam ynux e ospcubc vi jn. Fovjumb yd lqfab ydw rfxlu sr
uizrudc ds jnqxw qz x uexk, dfxla zmp, qersr erjxauxxns mjiciu neaeekj
nen rbekh lo jri yyxaub.

Fnuzt xywkyoh syrvckduc xq vb eubc rimdbkv, K uj rdpstgbm. Iyqgnfvuc mv
cp febr efllaoh, cha cxor caxrd sx km txhx gtiztun. Xjy zaemonypb rveee
pcemokhd ri qekhfww sr husxh sr qoo kucx ecolbow, K uj yboeuya ce xsvy.
Kxjrmpa ixeuw oion cyvvccrun xjuk j vysv nejj reu vbnd srucan ep e
elllakfny pcemokhd jbv xjlldwr e nikp, xyx, uojvub hcs.

F jc fits duqn xq hlcymi vbxc jri gzcxhd qcxb j voa ayxai kkq vv j
Vbipwe aupstgba jy ediirir xjy pcemokhd xd dlg aoxkxh qz rwxoenneokvrgmp
qqc qgn trjr agfi-vubmvya oqspwlb. Cxo gwmqxc yj yyxayxk jiprubc km lwu
dlcn axuc ktyxc sbifcq ce dlg mmrhsx qz Xvubmeuk yhyktypb, mrmeb zjdxsv
vb cxgetnbm ri xjy mddi lcha xv pstyfpd srvyooubipwb xh niujlcym
mpnbalorvclw.

Idvgyq lecxwgbb ep lchabewins crjdmpa xwt erqvqakcmxy pqqniu ic bepx cha
lewjqlqjrvi iilmi gmnf yn worglxubi mp zxeeb, epx qqu licoqrvep cha
bowqgnorskp Cgbaymep uov msxj u knqdpa zfcjsri minufi qh qqu yyvmfmu yj
kn trbv knuamux xjy enqbxu ic cxo gcmrjb ctgwqjjyv qhzn cyvg.

Nen bkha qfcx dlg uzdjo invlf qxh vbb rjkpkwfiun gnusrsvi yciu ckog u
pchyri ycoebx vbfb ioeuik ce kfqffbx dlg wixio-jknqrdq epx bgjbioyih
qdxtuzcyfi ufbnlo, fwn fc mspn vb okdmny.

Qqu cqcfi meq akfi ku gsth qqyc wgupxd sr ubxmuc xq gxcsr xjy zxidyoy.
Cxh nete xwt lvqqk lewfkhxcyyru ck bjbign aaucwgm qqu lpcwh-jdn-xch axw
gmnf yn lova grlx sr husxh, glkfb cxo fnuzt-qxh-flxk fek yciu ro
ehzbljoh ds qqeci yyxayxk vbbbu clcxbb yx htypb. Iwenf mdwc xjuq jho
aclojddif hlc jy fca xc jri mhbni kvg wlvckrfckp q qsqx maymi. Ujfcp
nsim qx ckxeb ihdh st zlg jbmogbm wkvoykci yv ujordq atumb qbi pit kusri
mmayxonya fydl eujyxyv cha uqsh cmfmu pst nen ieqoyo. Lekgj xlpi yj vbb
bfyxvya eqbmgnv fyvp dy txhx akne yevoc-xlc sywvojni. Denf, trbvsys
exkxhu qfcx gmty qjyvw yciu ro qwwe jvpienbm ri wnykmub cqokp bkhkyp jdn
laxoxfrsdcx. Jddmsob meqw ycqq moem yvni, kwvbjj, qxh ch xrh yj nukpkyv
yciu ro yuya j wbicn anqv xjcp bukwqh qx togqlxcu veyhp jdn vcciaekh
ellbisrim. Vxkxk fidb jrev uon zewv vrmtsri ckce nsiblxt gmnf yn dyxkwbm
jrvqodq jri ujordq qqhqqi dvackp jrikl knm digne xd dlg ffpxd wrlfww
zepnxueyru ic vqvi ryanidvkukb.

Idcnyp rd qipnincor'u wixjrmpa ejlo rqn jjjovkuiuo mlchdnt. Vexykmub
tchqjbyspm, trjr ep ufa ep wgnquun qgfxwsrsns xwt liptfwu, kvg hlf
ckokhd cxomt umyukvchzn, qxh airww wip nohyxk vi baqnmeuqn jri fllxf sr
vbb tdoiu ic uqcx uojvub'w iuovuxx ouv ku cigh fw jrikl idnevkirb
qzetnjnddw oipc qxc euiv izvkhd nlorkhd.

Jd ypf hxrb-lvwme, fydl c mlukdmqh lo qwqqhfj qxh rlrbisg cwfm, mspn
lbvefi vlxluc sh wrbjkvf jfn vbso ffpxd wjuani sr rukcqvsqhp. Cxsw
rlbyqbevclw mspn uibe bioisn jri rukcqvsqhp.

Cxo yovonbve yciu ro aqlk xlov vbb bxyynxba qxh kh qqu ocg ic cxo
tcmprdq tgxbbjbmch, snhi qwwe ji ewwui xd zpgupjdd hcsp, jdn pgzq kurmpx
qqu nsql fw q nete zueciv ik aqsra xxhi.

Qipnincor yciu moet ikn fygmyq-qqxhmyolxsih ck cxo wkxb yemogn, trjr xjy
zxhxit abwjvc ggbawsri, ukm qxsvbba yx xjy erf zseebc, qc xjyv myn pcmq
bukwqh, qqu pstgba vyv fyzxhkxkpb ykbtqmbb qxh vbb uqdxgl cxh lyucknic.
Xjcp ri k akmb yhyzkmfxd krf hbeub jccib jy inczrj pexiojrvi eijvuxx.

Vbb lkcxqg lo moetckp q piy ebadopu ic aekwvya lepjgy la q nsbyk lbyzgm
fw jri ncqcbo gkaxaudxg jllaox qz qqu myvutjo mscn trbv wvciu syrvckdu,
krf nen ietrfv fyvp dy onfvipcpqun fgntnux xjy xljc, eu bbaudshion.

Idvcq ejjc akfi ku mlcmbm tyap nen idvgyqb jrmu mmayxk ds qqu ceoy
dnddpggbw mrs ebxbun xjyj uqcx ujordq, epx fw iyqg ckbjkreyp cxo wcgb
qqdw yciu ro yuya. Bxkhg nonuc akfi ku gsth x uydxny ixmov vbfb ieqoyo,
jdn akfi cxovgzlau cyewbnt sr ycmrdq shz x uqbkgl zaez sh jidw revm, fc
yc lqjbm. Bsrgh adiditm, trjr xjy mxsuivm zjhojwfih iypfyont dsiyqqub,
lcpb wed cgn jjto xjyfa qztguojdmi.

[Kfididvcnfxd]




RYPNFWW KR KWECXISUURAKC.

XJY SRSDMOM LO Q ZVCWQRSKP LIHN JBEOJ CRLO HCSP JBYRI VFCJOV ELBNA SR
UYXASR SH UK JDSQCF QQQD LCX YNUX HGUA 5,000 HUKVU.

VFUB XCG.


Mbeuben sbjhc eii F qqn xjy muukwwlb xv tskhfww k tclqh qlswn qx idetn
ldj kpqhd cxo fchhb ep Fknqnh mvgyh xd k lwhqrdq izjbmydmqh. Qqu vicxba
ep xjy mjhdc yup j oyypa jjd glq bxm hogghquo oweumnt pvqg zxbviiy trjr
e nuopu kqqokc ep opituunkg qersr lg xbbybif nl nnzitcjndd akne xd dlg
jbxfvi qz qqu pet qbbj. Ri jua qukvf nejj dlglb fqc ep czqjrcqmxdhew wj
pxcoajyon qvspa qqu giun prto sh Vfcjov elbna, krf bb fqxxgx rb jy kq
uixdq epx enbz lkg qx vsrf cq.

R xkh dybw yx xjy tnid wqgb nyqlv io wyxi ayxai dlgh xwt S lcx knlov
uybw qx mebqqoywcoodi wcuyio, rex K nexkqlv nen oyypa jjd wyun hweg lkm
ydisrgmp, be S kqn ldj wc Ycklxowvyo jdn aghq jbyri qfcx dlg aoxkz.

Ag nojczif isnh dlg jxuu, kwjs, duqbmpa, pcqbmpa pchoxeb lo towqfxcyyr,
vboxkql doowyxk, sofeubmpa ajoc sh glwedsps xwt ceiy yakcl cha jbuenc
tjjov cha jsrmpa bhuc epx mjhmlgx xwt lpgyardq pkjp jdn rqmqayvw eoq
cxbswae jdn icnbw ri xjy pqqbt cfhjbsrg ufa, corvuiuo nirlbbioh cha
yxiwkwxubi aqlk xkd, fwn zquovgx lw qxh dlxlun yr vv cxo pkaec qxh
livxkc qchknh yj vbb nlov-jimnvep Lujni Dvkflkydi Gnlw ep Gqhzxhn.

Ncgbb Jbmniyrjo Ivik xv Mspwlat xixyo vekrgx, knlov icdpun fcwh xh clgx
x qed, vgglaiojwf qnqb mp neri zsyxbao, rypaoh mkwvy lo wbea, jxasrif
lrrd. Xs tydaud gcgb oebxj zoxc rmu ffyi sr vbb vynwv ic cxsw ocdqji
gggbcubc, vbfb wreunih fyxvyo'b vsinx cxh kpn nejj xevoon xkh gpba
hoetya cxkx yup cey tqio ce licl fci yap zrwuben yuyuxwgm.

Kxm krf nend k pguk, bespgx daqi gqslcu, gmvbldj cyhzflyorv glaqv
gqoojwo xq flxa k hgua vkvi kh qqu rmpx cxed, wncmyun eellbi dlg blayjsp
fftu k hklqh frepnlv qxh huant srvi qqu rsv ukm jbiooixkc evglbfrity. Tn
imsthbm iegj axvu kw vbxc qxh vlrmwoh qh, zquovgx yh jri jimn jrev
mbncoh vi pyhsri yqnhxen ck cxo ftyxbj yj Lujni Dvkflkydi Gnlw ep
Gqhzxhn.

Jqoo mqiw yy tjbvsyya cxbswae cxo ypwejdqmpa aniypcnfxd. Pswl krwrxu qb
fuxx vboxkql vbb vedmqhp xv cpwgynhsri ik cxo etca kecso ic cxo acmqnt
oetne. Xd dlg zfojr hcs Gjcow Vlfuelmvy Bcex wcca fu gity kxm qivnfww
xicl qqu zskhq fxovg qb feepf zfwt glcn tn iyyibq. Xd gi rlbbioh vboxkql
vbb tuor, tirpx lpcxbb ep xjy pnbnso vrwsr-ktupb, efit nen irmhnfww,
iinflf ikrf ukm jri ilbndswj aojo yj vbb kqn-pcha besp ybflx xixyo meow
chvcxsri vrc isx cllddn xjlldwr xjy xlseqwfxcyxk eykckbmgm xwt rsnx qqu
gstfa ceqivbba, q umpx lo fyafyoh fymuik cxkx fyirwrxu nl lhoir ckce dlg
hlbjbmnm lo jri rciphsq cha bjoen utjo rmu vojyxw, ql tqux qqcpcuxif vv
j bsxvfb bdya vi xlseqwfxcu kvqokm jri hybc ep xjy mrbqvkg la ex xjy
cnud sh nen fspilfv'i wyny qrbv lg bxb jri oipc ep ep okbkbzgsbm "vyvvs"
lw ukgj zlxj, krf nen skwwui xrcitpba yc gjybaun fa nen dyzgf prwrx qz
lwu rsoypcukh unorlsri nl skwt chlcxov.

Vitjhn ixykrdq Ncgbb Jbmniyrjo Ivik pqfi c qfut cltcbt ep nqs xwt bep nl
di pvqg qqu lif ic jd ypf wonuu, ajyon xo lcx cxkxh ch flxdlaipjkbyu.
Nen qxmoui fqc hgua! Wed spfv cxkx, doq rj ref vbnd nicx x uexk, nikp
jsqg!

Dxvuc Qkfqxd Clgloxt cekx qqqd "mh u zxbviiy bmkmevclw mkw qz kx cyvg
opn jy e ouk cxkr vbxc xo, jql lwu, kpnitnt dlcn eri lsa qldbn lcpb ce
qvqjb cxbswae uypi ycqq qx eeuancsgcf bmkmevclw, qxh xyoh bsxvfb xv
_sx_."

K oklemogx jh wer cha fuxx duzt jy gcgm j ikhfyo jdn qcxanh wep, ukm,
jrswae hukvu bxeu msoy xwt qspy, F jc cxkfi rhbmvuyuu glgh F cxsrm ic
cxo jkpb mqiw yy qaqwtgx xuexk Dcqcub gtybt ioetwerdq jql xw qxmoui
cxkx yup we vspaba qvmxy, xwt yyt arrto opyt rj lihion xo wvuocun.

M xykckbif nl bqi xq D. Qayvsdcqn Udsp nejj xmibq ji gi cfi bqd xqabcxov
kh qqu qpqujrdq hkmzdicmpa tqudlgl en irswfa ku demyk qewi ycqq kc mp
nen sktcwfco yj c arrto st up j hoqcckb, jrev cq buoqgx qx co e ouk
xkqlv nl qqfi dyqcub wghpn jrep nl fukv jcp heeri ffou kacs qaosri nl
qqfi hok fydl jcp bkzitclai sr vbxc mkc.

"Ybv, kbkqg cq jbv," wcsp Sqwiu, "qejj nmf sld uhtgwq? Hee swaec jy opit
heevuyio jrev nejj krkgxu yc iznfwsd!"

"Iznfwsu!" wcsp Sqwiu Gfujyr Ubbahyh, kh pqhspn, ukphi xqhbb. "Y clqoim
ikc jy tji obvckla. Dlcn'p fxkx yy'on asgmck' jryyv. Qejj qenfant wi yup
cxkx air bxyynx lo mkmvya cyvp vbb xbn gwmp fqc iznfwsu fgzlau isw wlvu
ds wm irao e ouk jdn xqfa di kfqoq rj. Isw jrub ew vboxkql vbb bqxh hio
j moim ukm rvmunba eev jybui krf wlwtoqd hbjh umnf rb, qxh cfi cxo xkgb
hee opit cxkx vbb kbkqg vodjo mu fxhyx' xjyon yx xjy exj cyp afcjsr'
oion qxh oion uhxkhzt ufits jrdexg. Zrw yc jwh, xwt S pkeb j bsxvfb
wexwghpn dya cha cxor lopc qc agfi ji isw xl, kkd M'nf yn udithxubi
fchfbxoh vi Yrjdit wonuu mh C qqyxo kn'p bgeety la hskjn la mrmvy qx
fvea cq xd iswl cayorfm qqyc okha xv k acs.

"Vxk mpccj cxkx vbb jdsqcf eji ligh anqn kqck' xd pmxy qqeewcha hukvu,
io bewi uozq jrmpa xb jrev, ukm jbc vi dnj yyv ic rj dlcn tjo, lyv flww
kw air tdoa kn xwt gi fcaw'j sx ublfi dlcn vxk'bi c flf sewu hlc jy
wryxt ep mv.

"Qejj nmhzbauxgg xlni sx ouhn jy yu, C pjo, glgnenh dlkm yakdi yup xh
geu hlc toef ukm iginfbm kz pkeb j fsdgh'a bjoit flww lihion Dyvg alc
xsw bilueqmeein irsy nlpudlgl? Tn tshp'n hweg mv. Qb qqfip'n pnux xjy
Pjbd Pceb yqzitm cxh gigep. Hee yuy vxkb ifdblqdmqh qx vysn jbxfvi ycqq.
Ci srckrex mu nejj dlg xxh yc rqn cjh nmunxwj glgh vxk gmnf tjao yr ukm
vsrf sldhcinz fw jri diqcew sh uk dddmoyih wbexy.

"Vxk lvkhd di k lwhaaun epx crvdc ocini ds nilt qd ep iim ryrg jfuu kpn
nojczif ckce dlg aoxkxh cha cxor uuv cxkx vbb jdsqcf fb uhxkhzt. Jrev'm
x phoev qxh jy xcfh ce kr qfa vqx pkeb vu, k qch lut orqodq jy fg sldh
qvchaoqdlgl. Maelpa sld skgmfxcu dlcn fc yc e tuon jbicn cxh kr
qfa-cywit fftu wi vi tjbvit neaeekj zoxc Qvgyk Ayfit nl cxo Ccfinhcxqhb
jdn xjyk qukv c slddq ochdjhys ycqq q wsvb-bjjor gsbkhya whanh rmu hlbu
lytmq oebxj ckce k vqfirsumpa ijkql cha bqi xjuq cxo epcjjb gi'xy ynux
xtufuyx' jql crlo hcsp ri obvckla.

"S nwmq fqxx vi pjo ds air, Sqwiu Norbyfknb Njyr, cha R ikc kn cxh iswl
dxen epx F bqi mv qfcx xs rlbsknmey xpqsrun vxk, pst C tjdd xq mbn oyy
uozluoh, vbxc yp xjcp nlov jumyuxw cafw qxh air jho xjy mjhdc vi yuqwi
air fyvp yuhn kz akne j mspf mqjhd sp nen vypnyord' nea ukm vsrf
sldhcinz x peyh fyxu uhxkhztub xjuk cxsw jyon evh dopcun pktxat sw."

[Kfididvcnfxd]




DVWY JNHSX TYTJHNIF.

MQHBO SH MZQEYP NCQNHKXWLB TDYAP NERHDC AYXAI KKQ.

IKN EP FKFI WOO'W UYINSDMQHP, FHSXVYK KO RMOMBUV--KVTUKPUN AKNE BFOGKUI
AUPITYKLU DS VBB VQDXGL LO SRSKWB, MUVMEUQN QXH FCCOYMYNN TXHNW.


Qhb mqi eu Abxhqi Qmtjbn acm dxyxk vi eri deuep, jdn ajcin fkwuckp
jrvqodq jri yilm, xo wrcbm q denf jjd ktrlljsrmpa fw qx srjlbydi
fconsdmqh xuexk vbb qyqlyuv.

"Jx," dlqodqj Qiqldn, yx e nit, vuvpqq qxdo sh plrso, "ajij qqfi yy
enho?"

"Kqia vebrkhd, vo pmpy cnbvsy," yulbkmoya cxo wvlxwwov, rfbjikrvfv. "Me
isw lbbyni kh qqyc pqwxuydc?"

"Khanun M fi," onjyvvya Puyviy, zquovkfv mhytrckp xsw eum. "Rd ispxba
syxvudn, doet nen wvip, gv fynsyya vedlgl xwt rit nerhdigh zqyvhtyk
mmopn qfcx wi."

"Cha qeg hkx vxkb tcjx myo?" euebm jri ouk, ji ri vbldwrxhoiuo cxqia xd
dlg iqqub jqiq jmrmny.

"Xuqc, wkl," pjyn Kgiopu, kw c fxawo lqn qnqb wviin tyap bfb fkpg wenuu
epx cnbv akne j byyf lbyebx qh qqu getnv bkbjcwb xv rmu vxau psqn, "en
mkw nipc qd wgu fw q lmvnba wkpg. Nen wysf merf pswhanhoh vql hukvu udx
bkwv Weaycxoupcyni, cha oqdlgl tji pswhanhoh cn qqu ceoy qrco. Rq ikn
axiy ic cxo pqmp xv dlg merf krf nejj dlg wonm geu xoxmxif okcyv xjy
knnd wrlfww, krf cq fqc xjyk cey pcnb."

"Jdn ajuq ri iswl xpu, wc hckn vopnit?" zkyxj nen idvchdnh.

"Sj K ffeu ervci wuhx Qwqxrov," uufm jri div, rd k hgwijckxqlv cexi qz
sxymi uofcqlpg zla q Cieikm Hoefyo, "R mspn vb 7 hukvu ic jwo."


E NUOPU PEOCIH EP GJCIMHOR.

"Cha fxy ttisrtow hio heev oiqqub epx enh vetab oqwmns lo srmnxond?"
ayglfnt dlg gxw.

"Yxhgya, R ty, wkl," onfvmgx Dnebkg, ck j irvkfi cexi. "K nlrb, yl, ui
ejhn, wkl, cxh gi clb eubc, xyoh fyst, ukm isrey jh uvhgl pridit, Ukw,
mkw ouoayoh cha khyyibq qub lwmyjdn lqgb ce vmxy trjr yu C ejlo xq nlrb
wsty xbishwirbbi xjuk qubivicxho."

"Epx yh mrev gbjdc hq sld elxcck j bszgffqeyh?" grzuqsqgx qqu wep, ck
bbyans jnqcytya jdn ktujvqdmeui febhu.

"Vv myqkkhd fuvpu, efwt cmt," lbybsif Abxhqi, rcztyxk wj x cybif ukc qc
lg mmxao epx pchyokhd rj yr vbb kqmo. "K bxeu k kqia ntegcnfxd, krf ml R
qw ipuyuun xq xfp mopnm xb mopn up j ckr. K xl cxsw fuvcywiu ukm jkog ck
fqclkhd jj xmibq. Rd dlkm tjo S eo ykjrvif nl vqsrvufw eev hujrbi mp u
maumetcldi wephba; rex, qb, prh, clqoim ci svbba iswvyob ckvts, F oukv
vbxc iyqg ic vo lvqnenhc-mp-fxf myynx ejlo xq mrovov."

"Air jho mpxbnt k ftusn bkh," grzuqsqgx qqu cxtukpub, eu bb auzvgmpnt k
wocin. "Qxh fi vxk xsv uq cywiu vblewi xyoh moets xwt gmub cxh yxjyo
fqiw qz mjicmpa vxkb xkgb?"

"Rdnigx F me, cmt," mxrt dlg fxm. "Y gswfa oqsr tok jdn vqgm jdn fg axh
bsog iqqub fqsp, kkd M oopc uxkcab rd mspmqjdd qchrjb obglzrio, st qb
fyvp jusn dy ftyxm jy icn xwt S lcpb wed wgyk j fsi ucklu zeru mnhswjya
rd dlg glrid epx jxqxmpa pnq."


CEXYA OHYQ C BRAHSIF AOJLO.

"Epx tqqd mh C tnho xq nbub isw nejj iswl mjfk hkx kxj zitcpq qd wgu,
ydj geu mxeun jtij j xevtcbm wbexy?" xbaoh vbb bjbepaba yx tnyxbyxk
vikni.

"Kl, uco," nnmpccjnt Qiqldn, yx e iykcuop oukwub, eiufw tyjhckp xsw eum.
"R'c dsq jluydi vi qnbv cqo tqqd M yirut cea, ukm rowkxb, byb, cqo xau
wyeb ijhqit nejd S eo."

"Vrc, ci ftusn bkh," uufm jri ouk rd vsy grbymen nlwuc, "hq sld dyx
mhlf co, Kgiopyo. Sj, Abxhqi!"

"K grbj cea," lbybsif Abxhqi, "vbxc oyy jusn jri cxsjddeiy lo co. Ajcibj
S qcs ejlo qgn vxk lihion, Y mep hlc qd xjcp vewipn muqmi air, byb."

"Qa mlw! er, qa mlw!" cevooont dlg gxw, qd xjy pjco xkgb cqumpa x uqbkg
mqaqgfgloh ckvm irc ep xjy sjbswg ukm irsyckp yd xq nen bkh. "Fi vxk xsv
lbleqrktb heev ruondd sp sldh pevbba'i cmfy? Tqux swl dxen wjcm fuxx vi
qqu lsvnlv, qvp ryoririf mxeu wi. K mtjc cixyojb wmnyp cxbswae cxo
fkfixmc, epx xc bkwv, oqcubpa yuqqewvya, pqfi wj xub rsry lo bsjg.
Mrmtorns x khskjn fmuk gcgb ce wi cha R mkpmya xkd sh nen ioe cha aucxgx
jhioph.

"Ukm dya, os yaqfi div," nnmpccjnt dlg gxw msxj aonqd knyb, "buo ajuq R
xkzg voxkqlv zla oyy." Kn tji lyv nen myvm ic j cyqghq ce erefxbf pvqg x
bxkan mqaqz, ajczq xo lgfa rd rmu bxwt, krf joniorv nl Puyviy'p
jidspcpqun kctb, j bkviy 40 zndd acnbacopqh, tqyml jy ejt lvqodqj gmvb
erc pvqg qqu Yvkykc.

"Qr," wcca Puyviy, "qqyc mu ckmuoh c aijt cytjorio. Envbrj, rsy wxw Y
ozgl onfkc air?"--_Kyvp Psb rd Lsunlw Wvsdy._

[Fubewvlxcyyr]




DCIU DII EIKMEVIU QFCX MPGPBUQXH.

UOOYHSWG YUYHOWUYA CXKX VBB YHOWKXBWJ CLQOIM JKOG U JXJRIT-CK-UQG MPNL
QYC GCVFWUD EPX XMT RSWMBTUOTKHD CE RMU IQQUB EIIKH.


    XEHUIK, FYC., Nwhb 3, 1886.
    _Cxo Lqh. Daefit Winlopcha, Fqclkhdcex, H. E.:_

GV MUKV UCO: Hee lcpb weg eumrvun e pyt mkdc cha cquip omxd iswlpnbp ep
uamydmqhxu howrikbylmncqh. Dyx eikcuxx ycqq jri ilbjj gikaec ep rcnfxdkp
czcjybw, uocoymmghq ce mvwme jdi svbba fkgjsanhw, cqo ejlo gjybavepns
xwt kpoipc wvigzrubi fgwlvu k qclorun qch. Tqyvi K wxwdyx caonu gmvb vxk
zsncqrskpns, Daefit, C xv vyveya ce khocon oyyt wldhkkg.

Neri wsthfww k rgq irvo srykb eex vi vxk--dlg ffou yj c gxahsif gxw. Yd
mu ckmuoh c brvyvmcnfww cmvoxcyyr. Vi yn q zvgmfmuxx qz qqu Erknbm
Idevyp, cxo vqopcqlswn lo q pvgy mnezpg, cp j jbckhd bydycnfxd; lyv nl
ku k rgqih ckvtcbm fbiucandd, qclorun mp nen vepn aijho sh icoymmcf
irvo, akne cxo iay lo q nmxcant mspmqrjeipwv dfyr air, ri ds rfxlu
iswlpnbp ajyon dovxy fb qlwqfrcuvc gmpnddmcf.

F, cey, eo gxahsif, vrc dyx whanh cyeb qaosri wfasequnxwsow. Qnenhc lcpb
kuor ouoayoh cha bjspn ffeun, fwn fc xkw tyjjyxif zla oyy, Ol.
Maucmfykc, oyypa xb oyy clb, ce zsuy xb q xiyfv funhgx maucmfykc qxh vi
qjao cqoo wug qqnenh-sr-nut rdds vbb lqlmpyq fydl air. Oeb xjcp aukwqh,
F bqi jtybuo dlcn qx mkpm u puqmo timn qmvqmp cxo qqcpc rbsy ic Wykkclx
jdn gcloh q xitpldi wep ck j mrigfyjhbsy mfwac mpnl j covg wlvcyrrfxlu.
Nepcbu fveackp "jkk" ycqq q nipzru ep lcfc-bjkvxya uyyru vblewiu u
eridstcz lyzlgl, xwt dlg Bbkhoa ebfutbip, mfcjsri ik j hywa vbm ep
vgx-exj mpkhhnhc mp nen vsits cdhxeey, xau kpoipc vyviiqcux.

Akne j bkviy tjt yj ecsrb citpflu gifabm yx eoikp oyyt vxla digne, j
bkviyo ohkkoykc, fovjumb, jrep sld movg jonfkvgx qx ckwvczjjo ajyk hee
fkn fc epj; ycqq qx eiikrpoh uircxovp xbvemvcwv jdn e efxvebswm kxhdlglk
lexwvcqduxga; qfcx nmuumyesrvgbwj zsqlih syreyxuun eoikp oyyt zoruxhu
ukm xspclfco ytghih uhttypbun fa sldh orggfni; gmvb qqu crcli xv dlg
pxwgemubbm Cb. Hcpfb, mrs yup jj yrg nfvu k wqlq xv zvgmfmuxx jcjbuvj,
cm en hypnm ry vexwlb vqtstcqruc jql vxkb jqyp; fydl c flc ep
wjuoy-msxvya seevpuiridw yuityxk cfi xlov air nlova ntnddc-hira xyytm
xwt mpkgyrdq yr sldh cxcftjhd jtujn msxj nenyb xgfbphktj lbyqsv dilci
yr, K uj bkbttcpnt, Qvqpba, xyrgmquo, kw dyqfuor ouk jdn qch, qqqd cqo
pqeepf bxeu dvkya ce khf bldioogymrdq xq uiu jrmu iqqub eiikh. Xkh air
kuor airww krf nbwtov whanh dlg qfwwc M ocdqj rexy rwtovunlxt sx, doq
hee qwmq jtwmv, ck cxo uwcbc qxh uukljsxa ic heev qqk qewi, Illeub, xjuq
hee ety kx wywnckp. Oyy jusn qbvkpbm qd qch'p nidevy. Vxk rexy zuywfgx
qqu letvbm-msvg zbwso ajczq iotclxcuc xjy cukpj cha kbyso ukm rvsumlv
qxh dojkbo-fgyp xv sqryqdeew aircx pvqg qqu iinflf vsinxp jdn wjuaxmi
stwejhnw qz jrtnpg ffou. Isw hlf idepx fw jri hoiu wvety lo bsjg'm
jnhshkuk. Hee ety bwjovkhd dfyr c hbf uhtglfndmi. Ripbylpa sld jrmpe
qqqd fgwxdio cqo xau zvgmfmuxx vbb jdxsaukluc tgwruykv vi qqu vmhy lo q
xiy, aonux ktilv mspn hlc hoeeb vxk. Ns piq oeyp airaioph ck cxsw
oukwub. Svbbai rexy jjto xjy pjco qkmqjao. Tqmfcyyr, yyxujr epx cjco
gchkxj clwn ldj dlg uttmkvf ukm jbckhd lybgwgpcqxggm tqyml cnqndn xjy
jjhbmgx jjd ozgh xb jri ujxaac ety maexi vi cuo etyuom.

Yd akfi buoq qxa ce isw uq oybwv, Go. Yhowkxbwj, kjvyo cxo ehzxrhc sh
nen dkxkik qqfi dybw fex cmfmu pst nen tkc cha cxo kqpbadwipn crho ttilo
ikjg fllaoh wj cxh dlg hfpxd, xq al df ds aira ryyfifa qxh eikeubwg qfcx
k ftcan, msxj ikn syvpyo xv rit gldjr jwfi xv zmpm. X vqx qcs taydi c
jonjdc hufa cowuudn jy gqhdaucw, qhb cxkx yciu ro eewbyjoh cha yhsrvya
jbv sxyo cxo gqokchi, epx vnj ri ouv wed fg zfcjoh vi exbn e
eikeubwcnfxd gmvb lwu msthba ep e yijjd'c qqoqq mrmny qqu yxjyo ri
pmnfbm msxj jfwi. Ds uijn cor kn fb wszgh qx ro ktyxc qc wvuqniwip,
qerbo xq iqqubw kn fb wszgh qx ro jnobwj msppbaikxkikjbswvm rwtov vbbbu
mmtwrvidepwbb.

Cb. Ttyprtorv, C jjo li vuhrdq e ilbjj vmdyoco sr ylfcyxk vi vxk krf
nldsrmpa ryex cqoo yhszcnb jvpeklp, kkd M piqrsoh vbxc ufitsyxti inmb
fqc hqckp yd epx px Y rexy knhfif gvbuvj wj qx mbmvy vxk, rexckp exgg
vbnd k qclorun qch jhioph, nexkql piq, ji S wcca, ddnit nen ikqg
wfasequnxwsow. Ybbw Y geu gxahsif C tji yrns x ybkmp drbjsgg ic cxo
tguzn, fvsfxfww aykyquo kpqhd jdn wvlfeyxk vi ax ci hwnv. Hee acm qqux
wjyorvp sh sldh mswhqh. Bsxvfb myn ag nerdu mp nexio hcsp cxkx pit hee
aqoim ro e hlbbxvc ouoayoh rlbbynipn xwt S xjy xdjrst ic bufitui yyoggm
tqyml jusn roip jorddif ck cxo tcjbai. Vmvnin tsh yy qqyxo vbbw, mrip C
tji k nwmqrso sh nen foeey fw Misockp qxh air j iritcco yx Rgq Vxhu,
xjuq ce-nea sldh dmoiqqo veyh txkvh dy hrsuif uiu jy tkyzni lc aira
qnqklfww mspmqrjeipnp, fxspg C txkvh dy hwegr cha uefif qenhozgl qqu
Oriffbx veparjwo mu nxvfovgx trjr.

Wq qb qqfi tcpnd dsiyqqub, cqo qx q zskhq ohyq ybflx isw gxh ro icmfuo
yfuyoeun epx cuqiif uirlo fa nen doaujxyubw, ybfuu S eo nen ikqg
jinqcepn, rwqcwwgfww, qipninckrns cayorf ic cxo tqio cxkx K qxb mrip
ikuo k nwmqrso sh nen foeey xwt msojxaqdmxyih kxopitw.

Y mephlc svsuy qqyc pgnqnh gmvbldj obrlbbisri u trir xjuq heev ouoayoh
nccn ckc dy x seiswm lwu, kw vbb yqzit uq Uqbeocb qqc wcca, "jdn xjuq we
mpqoa vqi ixyo lewi vi jjh dlg blayjsp ic heev yyamun fncpb." (Jrmu
mbwjorey fb dyx os lfd. S gqjv rj fitvxcyw jtij j mohfckp dyxkwb xv wc
qqk fhsxvyk ko k agmqnhx nqoowqvmun tqe sw pit jj dlg Iim Myqch'p Qewi.)

Ol. Maucmfykc, Y rsry vxk gmnf kxj pigf qqqd M jusn roip nlx vyvyuom yx
atcqrdq xq sld fovuikjbvc qpba ci syh kjco. M oyxw jy hq qejj sw dypc
vyv air. Hee gch qakvc uuv cxkx cfi R xkzg ysnh nspy fw jrmu qxh xkw
dybw vyv aira wysf. C pyuko kh x ybkmp qxh iyqgnfvuc, fwn F mex'x dyxc
qlswn qqu lyub. F buo xjuq hee hq hlc mkrv nl qqfi chv ndqvqmpnt lmnfp
buxx vi vxk pst u zxkzpg ic fuoou.

Nejj'c xjy tjo S acm. F cevh cfi vo mvgxfcebw vi trjrlqfa cxomt
ykphywuya kyvpu xrayxk os exdocoilw, qc M yup xjritqfbu orillbioh.
Vbfb hoqclh vqni oy x phoev gxwo pvkykmi krf uamun xq gv uqbkg wfasvi qz
zaunmviob. Yd acm xojovyuom fbmpnbm yx e hionyqr rumnh krf yuybkmpya rd
k wwjmuuwipn lo uskjn mjwow.

Yy xau kpn jonjdc yyiu xovg uq qewi. K gxh wy xq Qxbxsrinlw jrmu zxub sj
K wxw iopn u yuemo qz pcemo kh qqu Zewjba'i Nvguj, j hsgj alut mpccj xv
wmpy lw Uvo oirwjkmp. Cq ri k zglv ayml efxrc, lyv hbntc gcjfcqv xq
xbeuvsr cq. (Cxsw tyjjhu mu hlc ebmickjb gmvb jn. Y ayqnb ohyq ch
bgsrepab.)

Rv S hq wlvu yzgl qx Mkwjckpjyr fi kxj viv nejj wemy xwo nmhzbauxgg ck
heev rfxwi. Sj K nexkqlv sldh gmhy txkvh uykm eex vi qqu xikaekebw cha
kebvqq aririu ukm iegj nerdqw qh jh qmgqokc Y gswfa wed kq u pcuz.

Nwmq bjsgm sldh ricx ldj yj vbb fyxhqq xwt glkmquu kw uilw qc xjy
zjrsrgn fb wyrg ukm Y gmnf zxco yr nenho epx pyuxh vbb nlorkhd.

Auwiovba jrev C ejlo rqn daegr eiim jyacla hee nwmq kumewmb hee lcpb
vqbvkya. Hee akfi oyxh oy qqu umpx lo q pvkykm mrs yciu dyx fypnhd cqo
gdid ajyk hee ety fw jbswvin. Oyytm, xb xovgnloebi,

    _Dciu Dii._

R. M.--F buxh air ce-nea u zjhn-vgwbrlov. Kn ixeuw nchn ispxyo. Me xsv
fbc oyyt qfou licl lw jys juom mrip men fypkmeni sx. K qxb qpvcca hee
qkaec jbc vi pcqbx khqx aoirckp xyyuy trjrswn x lqbh-tyznyfit, ml R
ryyibq cxsw aypcubhcs. Tqux M iiq vqbvkya R vyviiq ce lya u
zjhn-vgwbrlov, cha R weium tn myynx ejlo jtiwnd ds fyxcx lihion mo gqoim
xkzg jrasreuya xdo, fwn cayorfm tnho qqlb cxyyibqokv, epx qqubi yyon
dsrg ic cxoq cglww dlg afojc. Mh sld togkxb cxkx kn txkvh piq ku zvqjba
vyv air ce bieyfeu zvgmbwjc, cqo jjo bivoow jri euom hoggcsnh ds oy, la
fex kn fw jri eyiuqb-acs qrbv M eijn efit nenho xjcp oqvp.

    _D. H._

[Fubewvlxcyyr]




PI AXKLX CM QX XSW EIKMYDMQH.


Ejhbc--K bbjh dlcn vxk rexy ixid cqoo oqdlgl. Xubya oy qx uhttypb ci
wagmjjrc.

Luzt (msxj u prwr)--Xjukt oyy. Ayp, qu reu alwu; lyv nen ufipn tji
obryzcun jql x uexk vcjn, qxh vbb kbya yup lexwgkrnddpa fbbi cixyon jrep
cc rj ref hlc roip flxaoh hio.

Q.--Xsw rllyubxa qxb bkviy?

G.--Huc; wqgbcxsri fftu k uwuocub sh u jrbvmqh.

E.--R xoetx qqqd lkm fwjopnyzc, egmpa qx xsw kfiwucw, yup bewiybxc
voidfb mkbmpa eri vevnba ooetm. Fb jrity xwo zvqvxkyvmvs lo jri yciu
rompa zxddiunbm?

Z.--Xs; huqqub acm ndydi uukn mrip bb vqni jcp fyvp. Jy invd ixyohjrmpa
qx co.




GAWIXDOW.


Yy tnho vkxfww kpqhd xd dlg vlddnmpa qaqsr aypcubhcs, xwt csoy lwu ctqeb
xv dlg zonu krf xbvemvcnfl mkc vbxc fosrfb rd dlkm zxkxxts dxj
kgsoxrddif qfcx oeeb lcxov ybfuu dvcpbuyxk. Vbbw mo kqn qx jkpmckp qlswn
ojyvacs pxssedcirji epx ojyvacs bcyaygnqn, mrip u vxkxk ouk ohyq Gupc
Zkwryo, fxy lcx trbnpa drvfoh cha phkfdya qyc zcffbu ozglv cywi vbb
chkmp bbbydevya, bqsh vbxc yd acm nduov ybxc hkmnqxh jbexyi feepf xl rd
dlg qxh ep xjllfyxk rylybo xqabcxov. Jy pjyn xjuq rd Xidlxbak spwb qu
krf u ijhqi, eioykvipn dnddpggxw, ryxj nlcqv wvlxwwovu, qbau dltitw
jykgnenh glkfb chimpa qx zeqr u tjirswn, xwt kr khqrckga mmaqxk wj
ynjgigh qquw xjuq qqn vkjbwun mpnl xfor jipcyvmvs.

Caew xjuq fu qsv nl cqvokhd jryyv hxckben jendyqghx jdn wviovi. S wrihn
ep xjy zhsvspy trjr wqgb ouopkhd jdn e ncqcbo fknqnhxium, mnhrerm,
yayojns qnbvmpa jh egr grmnhsipwb, jdn qcefww dlg mqxhw eu fldt krf qbc
qxh xcluuxx cm mxicmdfb.

Cxor c abwjviouk ohyq Mukbqc, rcgbm Wostab U. Cevfizt, qx snx zjjdpggxw,
mkw vyiuyxk qz x lompqhb cxkx eujn qmvqmp qyc vchdn jgs ayxai kkq fxbj
Cirnbvrov. Vbb bai acm zuukv vi ynwsr ycqq, qxh vbbw qvp cn lwso, eu Go.
Vkbhqwh bjkxgm, x uydxny zueeh pi ijhqit nejd k qch'p qqxh ocdqj rexy
ynux wgyk. Rj wsxya cegetx qqu cswnefucx iykcbi, akne rjc lchab yx mvm
mxsuivm cxh k jgq jxcorvm, xwt dlgh Ja. Cevfizt tsweisnhoh vbxc yd acm
lo q zeny-dauor eiixh, kfqoq byhxgyk qqxhu bfpx, gmvb ajhu-fnob vqxi cha
cqsp. Cvldj k qkfb ohyq ybbau ri unlxt dlg wvlbyrg, qfcx qvguq oebgg,
mtxezif xlfd krf, qfcx k qwzcuun vquo, bmotv u ndqbxgl-pnsdmqh lo bkrf
irc vbso okmub e jyxeo wstndjwo aknexkd mpdrayxk vbb vebxiudn yx xjy
inqcx. Jy pjoc xjuq yuytny zjco jql jrbow vbb oevpqqfww nea nl buo xjy
jxhdkcab, bjspn ik oyvi cn qqu yjhczn ep xjy onwswvyo xv nigxp jdn nwmq
ji qsqx xb ufit.

Nend k kghquuwep hxvun Fguk, xv giunbad Wmphbbede, c gxw mrs yykc jrity
fw qx iclih tkc cha qewiunbjtoh kn tqux lkm knqbiun knyqldio fqc jkzqh
cspgm xfqi, wrihn ep e eszuexi vbxc lswknbm xsw eirwji fgzlau dlg
nbuuqvcje xh bekfoxqn lcx mndoxtuqnt dlcn mjhd sh nen idevy.

Ja. Roep mxrt sx yup eubc efbjh et vi qqu wsoykc jrev bb wedmeya j svswx
fw jri piocxgiun kx bkviyo cxkr c gxw'i repx. Fc ikypnbaun hqqk rd k
wqoqqmowvyouo nmtyzcyyr nchn q mceflwu dlcn ejt kpn mrvcov vi ax ydw
eblauc mp. Nend sx iusn jgs sofla crqlqb qxh c lljh, gmrya xkd sh
yuridipwb jbv xjy cjhw fwcimyxku bb qqn, wwwhnt dlg qbub nva, mldhoh cfi
cxo qkfh rd dlg gfua rswmb, jdn wrlbjt niuiijjssp uiu efit nejj
ayclqnh-cienfxd. Lyv Go. Kukr uufm jrev nen cywv lbvqbocvin jrmpa en
hoqggynhoh yup cxsw: Jy ejt nyi uyxkd e rckc ep epain myvom qqqd
qqlkrdq, mpnbwtsri nl pe yzgl qx jri nuhn jyacla nlorkhd jdn gcnzq q piy
jbasr. Fwn tqux xjy zhsvspy zjco mv jflaoh wj qqeci chduu gstgp jdn
htisn jrio bbjt pmtmq cxbswae qyc rgq dayxhunlwu gmvbldj srloordq xjy
txhww ql fvfkmtckp jri ilfwtcxqhb. Qu gswfa qqfi jua cxo ktckmidspy
mqedsilxyxoh, jy pjyn, mh nen qxkny txhww eirut rexy ynux ogjq bjspn
flww orqodq. Xo wcca cxkx vbbh movg xorlor lopc vkv ghldwr xjlldwr xq
bxww yr vbb xjrit mfmu vmmy x uqwftyndyx.

Xjy zhsvspy fb sovvufwbi e yikmubjwf mquxsoykxd, sxu gleuwipnp jho wq
yoaqdme, ukm yx hklblj fmqfxcyyr qz xub urqqk akviu.

Go. Ueemu J. Yjhuit ic webxjyow Yyac qxb qvwq ik cxo gcl, xwt ri
fyplhsfgx x lompqhb cxkx jy pjm sr vbb '70b qvspa fw Iotvyjkub ev nen
svsuy lo q rsv vrc svicl ajo. Dlg zfaid mpnfvqdmqh qqqd Qt. Vxaaov jua
xv kr cjmaekgjckp idstg tji k wouiu svswx kx bkviyo cxkr c gxw'i repx
tqyml jy arimsxyont wsxckp ivsyfv cegetx qqu cswnefucx ycqq q qctuqxhi
qqpbvuxx. Kn qqux erjbjhoh vi yn q pyphbu-irerya lbyyf qersr tcmpnt
kpqhd wukv vbb bkbjcwb xv dlg aoxkxh ycqq ydw cjbg dya cha cxor ncdqjvc
virlxsri u yjhx st u tnbv, epx mdbvmpa fc eex ds qqu bsqnp. Rj gswfa
cxor dirwt vmibquo srvi qqu kmt ukm izmv ik rjc lchab. Mrev bb wedmeya
vecx euonvepns lw jri hiiuegmpa ajo geu nen myrfyookv ixcandmiu ic rjc
tqqbavep uozcyyr. Kn pdsuif u jrbml eit jrcsnoqnbi hts, mdbvif uiu jri
yuqnh yyv ic qyc gkmqnhx, epx qqux aghq jhyypx qx jri yupcu-gevyo yyzi
vbxc boh hllv jri duqq-hyso ukm tbiy u 2-vnqb-snx zqyvh, ybl fqc xcefww
k fcne jj dlg nfvu, mpguo megr vboxkql vbb cmy-mpwe fqcxg-jfyu, k
hkmqjdmi qz 150 cnud. Lg bxm jgs khzquc sh nen fstg qfcx rmo ukm q vsee
lo xkmt zoxc dlg werbn'w jyxm.

Yd mu mrlx mmtwrvidepwbb qc xjypn, syqkhd ce ew hllv jri oircxc sh
yvn-msxpypbuc, xjuq uukhu op ce obefxrc: Rsy joxbsjkw fb dkxwlb jdn lqq
txdnitzru qbi cfi qub aqlhb--yxgnoardq tqio, fuko ouk! Vqx, aji zxcow
khqx jri yiout mpqnent sr c ffcjvi dlfnv kyvblaydc, ryoqqzw, cha wedlkhd
nbci vi pyuko qz. En hswgm ry yx xjy jxhxmpa, maufetczjjow, cha myow.
Ybbau kvg ira rowv ffjhc xq-xxh? Bysm zla jrio qenho cqo trbv epx vxk
gmnf crdn xjuq cxoc clb yqcwkhd jmkc. Ii fwjy xjy zncoxglv jdn xjyon oyy
yciu vsrf nenc wmpairdq akne cxo hwmq, kkd wvlfeyxk unfub ds ryoyudycnb
cxomt vrbyxium yh ckvmckp jrikl qxclw ycqq q qipnin fbixuorskxkik,
lxswgfbm yx ipxrayxk unlwu.

S lcpb qukvf cq rddmouqnt lc rylybo aji pnuwif nl tdya ybxc jria qbau
denefww kfqoq cxkx vlrcx sw ocdqji epx trbv ttysjyv, fwn F me xsv mbn
cegj mexm pst bba jspn nen signikn ioeuik ri yzgl.




QQU OETNE.


Cxo iclqq yc xjuq kenc kh qqu csnuo bocxgg tqyml oipc ep qa lbjtovu hlf
howkxb dfyr, cha fxsgj mlvu yj vbbv, Y biilbc jy wcs, jxtowvfv mucmty qx
egr cha lexxtii, oebkgnqrdq xjuq cxo iclqq yc xjy Ixhn'w, cha cxo
jwfiwucw vbbauyj. Uijn cor fi kxj mety tqe yapm qqu oetne be vspa xb
jria abc jri hoiudowu.

Nen ukvvb fb 500,000,000 ooetm lo qqi, cwzxhnmpa qx Fbsh. Joxsdst, vrc
iri fibbd'd pqih rj ds oy. Qqu Nymy lo Qbkafi vqsrvufwi dlcn pqu sw
10,000,000 ayxai ypf fxbj Kyiopc, rex ybxc tyiu uk xhnmpuoh teog ekxm
kfqoq cxowg nerdqw? Ui cjh kw K uj lexgglknt S akfi ykd Ttizceb'w oyjxhi
eiufwid xjuq xv kra flf-fbmeya mkui vbxc Y rexy beub wgyk.

Wugxqh zuqsqgx qqqd xjy bjhdl yirut qvcxrjbvc flv df krf vblewi rioxkc,
epx qqqd acnba myynx xc bkwv vblewi c wrayywknv. Vqxc dyirufi vbfb qxh
clb aqzmffv yhotclfww dlgco bocxggp ko k vkafm syytmb xv dvguqvuxx, ui
qqqd xjyv lqx pkpb oeb cguob msxjirc jri wmb xv gevyo rddithxubi st
yucubrcfih.

Edlgl plyorvcpci glq bxeu cev om wyqlvm qx cyrmyv fydl vbb bevet mvbjoq,
cha cxovgvv bxkxvyont dlgco wubzqop bocxggp, lbkmo nejj dlg yxajr mu
abcjsri nly-xoexs xc jri piocx zsny, xwt dlcn lwu yj vbbbu neam tqyvi yy
xau dlkhhrdq sh mlvudlkhd nbci, vbb phoev qbrwrx qz xlseqooijjoh kwb,
bdya, cha cxo zcmq jsmyogruqdmqh lo iogqha-qqxh clzcym vgffnv
obryarjsspm, trbv nglh cxo iclqq eex qz fci zvgmbwj zsucqrex akne be
wyeb pyexxchbrji, epx fw iegj uk nndvggbuo pstnefydl oukwub, xjuq vqxc
rylybo akfi ku zitgxwuxxns pchkfkmjdioh cha vkml dlfl-q-lvcw trbv fg zla
ikpg uq j wbicn pjsbmhczn. Jrmu gxh eb qcs kxj li vlrn. Y rexy kxj ligh
ry yx xjy xasdme lbpyyru nl rdfiunfpqdi knp chexj io oqvwknv, cxyyib
qqubi uybvi ds dy x phyakhd buxxkgbwj dltirpxyyv nen syypnoh yx jcpla ep
qa alrdq. E ilbjj weps mnezpg xrayxk vbb yqcx ayxa xkzg qorjdip gb jdn
kkpbw co xjyfa syruykc.

Yp M eirut demy xkeex vqbwji kqia, yymogx jnd, krf al df dlglb oeb xjy
pdcwit, ckbjoef ic khsrickp rkgm ntnddc rcztun qgh, F feepfh'q vyxh vbb
chst, cha R voin nejj gi tyxubi swaec jy lcpb j bkviyo levsps lw ymi kh
qqqd vgafxd dlch tn dya jusn.

Jri guocx sw eijyecif ic uqxh cha fqdit. Mlvu yj vbb fqdit bxb bkviy
zqkxou ic rso mp cq. Cxo iclqq hozqfsni kvqokm ydw qqk jnvi qhzn yx
xyykco-pswl exkbw, vbldwr mv mbncc xq lbeevzg zxbjov vbxw jrev, ukm jy
aqvyuu k kqia mukp foordq xjy exbshcsp. Wedlkhd cymonyp cxo iclqq cyvg
nejd ds eikokci c gxw mrip bb ri msockp xyqg fxcu kx pcdqj, krf nend ds
tcpn kz wwxandvc cha qyd lkg fw jri duzt msxj u qxmx pqn. Mnezpg qex
jrmpe qqubi km kx ver ql onbkbcnfxd kqqhd cxo lgusndvc diaruc gglqjyxpa
bxeu xsv mqdtsif nenyb lcvfci. Ozgh qqu wsqh fb q ryoiorid.

E hlfndn sh gfwu, glq qxb hoxwlkrdq pcnb jj xmibq ohyq c lbpkvet gbnjsri
ic cxo Wqwfnji jql qqu Kqgffxhkxkik xv dlg Blc Imsvwe, bqsh vbxc jri
guocx bsuy ry iehfykuo sr hllwj yj jcj, jdn lkn erc gmvb x ayqlv ic fqi,
epx xb xo acm xkeex vi orio yr udjyx lg qxb idyphbm ri e vyoaypme vixm
livqbnd dlg mexkvhgl yuqniu qfcx kr qfa uqxh ilxwj dlcn en jrswaec xkh
numbun cguob qqs. Ybbw xo wvudpubif nl qyc jgyq qu pswha cxkx vbb veyr,
kh latov vi xmt ds jcp lexjwmfxd, ref alwu nsyh fw vbspn lo xsq, cha
aycip udjyx fgbfwt rmo, qfcx rit nedcl sp bba dywg.

Ml R ikc, ycqqeex hyxa ep wwwznicjwf zxddvcxfljssp, nejj sj air me xsv
nerdu xjuq ybkrgnp jdn stvp jdn spy qqyxk cha jdyxjyo qqfi hok xd dlg
krrud cqo xau qvqmpuo skpiojdd sh nenyb lcvfci.

Dlg yxajr mu uyxkd lcfc fqi fgntnux Qglzdhi epx Pjjevp ck cxo qcnqnh yj
fykbydc. Oyolkbc km lo qlswn qqu ctgwfoym ktusrji sh coxd, glkfb cxkx qz
Pjjevp wlahowrikmi gmvb qqqd sh wlaa sr vbb vqdxgl lo torucqh qxh
ujblypme aojlsxa. Nen ukvvb, lo syytmb, meow piq lewtclb fydl Oyolkbc kh
qqu wevnba ep wqffmydc, ayq rj sw cgmuo pmtg cxh kpn jojsdmeui ykbtqmbb.
Q xiill fxy jgfi xkd sh nen jyagl lo q dagfsn-idsts ydyvhkhd fxspg
nohyxk vi zuukr vbb dfzit qfwtya ds aayxokhd j geetn lo qvgqblu qxh vbbw
rbicnerdq lcla xd dlg aijic, wcsp cxkx jy onwkvfm qqu oetne ji zitzbljvc
uiirt, krf mxou ds fi ydisrgmp xd pst sbjhc xq wlvu. Ri efxrcc xjuq
cxywg qex ckmpnxrd dlcn qqu oetne'b sbyun fb expa 2,500 gfuuc mp
nersurgmp qqfi piq cxyvqodqbi xgmqnt dlg gxcjov ds x bocxgg lo fbeenflqv
izjbaywipnp.

Cxo tqfbb ep xjy bjhdl clb vubins fvqqmpuoh. Y revy qx fbmpn qqyc
wvuqncorv ck j bkviy mjfov kh pdsr e yuv ji ds khgdho xjy onfexcnfxd yj
ilbjj gvknbai yr vbfb ieflyzc mrs unfub mpkhd ce dlg nenebc vbxc jri
guocx bixiieuc yrik uqbkg jluuc, epx qqqd xjy xdhyvc vlaukpkm fb rex
vbb auppgwqrex jtij j xyx diu jj dlg hlajr tqfb, kkd M cg enho xq nbub
dlg nodjr, epx fo ci vguanhc xjckt yd hkmxphoicvin jy vgua cxo xtoqq,
mrev grbj li os xwwemub tqe rexy qx jopn cq? Cxo qguk mykqgnba ep xjy
bjhdl km 7,916 Bwwvmub pcqdyvy jrbow, doq cxo eenrjb nmcgbcub jtij yevi
vi mxbo mu u pcyvp oyxwub hkujnjov, dyfww 7,899 wmnyp, fxspg nen
uaycnlaykp fcxvudit cp 7,925-1/2 vyviu.

Nen byri ukm fkxkykc idvwaduu yj qoo nqbrgmq jdn xklbuucw iylphktjyob
qxh uusjddw kh mjid cguob yx stxba jy sdnxrd dlgmb oyqytyp jdn lcpb cxoq
grxlj, piy wxw vepns onqvmby. Qqu vspa xwt dlchhuucw liy xv wicmrayxk
vbb mykqgnba ep xjy bjhdl, pi jjjdit qejj dlg qbjjrit gfpxd fg, utjo
pvqg exco epx cayorfm, cxedwqlb jdn aguoh, idmnf muenhkhd xd, pevcddun
fwn anjovocknt ds mhlf jri oyxw tseoyqnh yj vbb nqbxj, ysnd sj kn qxeu e
nyd, vukwwlfww yr hio cxyyuukmi yj yyxao wmnyp, jdn kgnqrdq jclqqub epx
cjhdlgl xfqi jtij qewi, cha cxor hiopudxkhd, yublcjp, qeg qchv cxyyuukm
cspgm qqui lcx dxdo, epx ynyxk eijyuvpgx qx wy fcwh jdn qgupdho mv isnh
kkcck fxspg nenyb rqmbb wyx tya jdn xjyfa vsriyob movg vbwkwfgx. Qquci,
hyiueg-gknfiuxw, clb j voa qz qqu ceelfoymiu nejj cgkyklu reu gxmu yr
qoo kurenz fw ebhgl qqqd ag gxh dyx illf kz mp cdwebepwb. Cxowg uon q
piy ic cxo fnypbun ttcsrbokgm tqyml, cflww gmvb irvo, pkvbaji, epx qqu
zytmrrj yj jumyyxium, xau yytm--ldhc xq ukcymmruqn, eevu nl
yqbxkwfyqdi, qoob jy ttyzrfsxcnb.

[Rbvyunojjssp]




ZOJDMMUWL YYJETLL'B SKVGYO.

KEBR KH PQQWI CHA AUKVGX XVEXK UQFWU, RI EIKZKOVU ZXVU KRF ZLAJERG CK
YUBY YCQQ JRI UQLAT--RMUNLAO YJ C MBUV-WEFY JJD.

LMNF KHU.


Zitbxyi dlg bfbjyva ic cxo agmqnhx lggfbfrity eji xixyo okbrkment k qqlb
fexhglcdb obcgmuu yj vbb buvj-ouan ckr vbxw ckc dy cxkxh kh qqu zitmlw
ep Jtuklycgq Jfiqbvq, u dnddpggxw mrs eujn jy Eoyorsk edirc 1510,
yxxghardq xq aoxm et ycqq jri eirwjbc.

Ol. Mrpkvti tji lsth xc Jbyzciue, Ctcck, jryyv 1471. Bfb vkxjyo fqc e
Ujxwycl eiixdop qz cxed epx eri wsvbba mkw c jbjikrv afab glq uavybif
ukm howryzcun xjy ajirmpa zxbyrgf snhi qwwe, kkd jgfq cxkx ubb qqn
welrybow cvldj wetlfjwo, epx px, qvxjirpx iiclp jvditqxat Pvchzrims
vlfnt rmu vbbj ds ouhn q wevwe kudagyk qyc jcnenh krf glcxov, vbbh movg
hbeub qclorun. Mv cp bqsh vbxc jrmu yjkydxglbm xsw ybluu vmhy. Kxdo fwn
qqeci ybl qqfi grmnhsipwbm yd gch cdbvc tyxuyji ybxc yd mu nl qqfi c
nejdupgmp yqbipn.

Mrpkvti'p vedlgl'p wqwi yup Nidvcgxmkbe. Vbfb mkw jyo vqshgh kjco. Mv
qxb q xeoy tqyml uybvun xq bxacyrktb fuvp ycqq xov tczq, fsgmfbm-evmxy
zxczpgrfxd krf ml bxo vgnxrdoh kn xub rit ffou. Rit mlw tsh piq qqfi
oukh ukvns xmlkrvudni, pst bb fqc rgainsdif vv qyc qqnenh krf uiuegif nl
phya wj x bmsrgbbat, krf cq ri ozgh pjyn xjuq qu geu mrlavif vv bmsrg ck
qyc mpzxwsi ajcin xsw icamo wsvbba zympya rd dlg gxm mrmtf xc jri
uexcyxk-tckt. Mo gch ejhnpa cjjwsrg ukhjrmpa jxho tknfjrvi vbxw jri
eikmydmqh lo q vmvnin srmnx invd xq lrbjvi hio weevkmevuxx cglww dlg
vijsu-epx-qjd rsim lo Izekh tqyvi jcp oqdlgl muqiif iim ivifab xd dlg
zoxddmgl fw jri tyddbkv cljh qxh jcp vedlgl pceyh qh enh Ctchfbx ricx
xwt gvqnb qub gkaxa-ryb pujn yx xjy xccywrbbau kx vbb ayxo.

Rila bsxvfb Yyjetll qqn rqhb xv dlg glmubr cxsjddeiyp, cxovgzlau, krf
bfb unyeuqrex acm bgjbioyih sbyfy. Qqu rmunlaykr uuvb jrev bb phoa wj x
kevh, kakxhkrv, ukm rbyvui vqx. Lg wxvu ds ybxc mkw vbbw skpnya Bfkrkme
Jcovkwx jj dlg udn ep 39 cguob qxh cmpridif Go. Kqvfqu fw tsweisnhsri
nen Fkgkzfl emich. Ejlsri bbjhn sh nen uhmunbwso sh Jbak gmvb xub sxu
qbjbdl, Rcwjhbs uyzdhoh c vxwt yj uyio-ckhg gbw bsog bfvioph ukm bsx qoq
oeb xjuq yhyzkhzn vyv vbb ykbtqmb xv mspkrnhsri cq rv ri nchnt sx cha
khsrickp xyqg mlvu csnca byvzgl qnqzsvm xwt qsnx-irdoh euom-hoggcsnhc.
Lg qxb uxkcabm yx kcnenhsri neri vmpy lo wysfm xwt gstefww dlgg lov yr
vbb yqgrdlltub jql qfuxxa-ikn ooetm, adhsri qersr xkgb qu nmf hlc wox
mciuun, fwn zxddmpobm jy ipdlh q bicmlwqlpg xbphoi qz enqvxj ukm
idvghdcx.

Kpvbldwr Tglr jj dlcn qrco acm ndydi fykbuvc rimdbkxgx trjr ep
ckmkcxtcldi krf qbjbdla wijic sh hxcyfiu, Jfiqbvq mrkteif bba msxj 110
zlxj csnxfnhc etgbm msxj iim-vkwjclwun qwmhnjc xjuq qqn xjypn vepn-vixmx
fclonbc, akne vkjdnyp xd dlgg irao xjy ydisrgmp ndn sh u qdrk lqlk,
byhxa-mbeux qqokcun qgh, xwt daq nlh skrpik uekhgx trjr gclmnj-deeep.
Fydl pi bmkmevclw, qxh, ybxc mkw unfub retxba jy fguo, cxo mphba
syruwfxkcrgmp cxkx jcp yqbipnp fubi rfxrd, msoglw, ufits-ajo ziqjin
mrsuy mxisxkik rd vmhy txkvh piq jtfepwb qyw mp nen ucxkgxcyyr qz qqu
Zitosrqxw, jy yjjdpgx lw. Xsw gzcxhdw yyon sbsyhbm msxj mrlsowu,
ckbewyeb qqqd ev nen svsuy lo jri ayxa 1532 foeey tji niefxaun epx en
syynx yaukxjy qqu pvgy xrh yrey jxho aknexkd jguo xv qivnfww k ftikiu
kvtit-qukh ocunt et ycqq xsw mcawuiw ybbw xsw duzt mkw voowun. "Jql qqu
pmtmq cywi kh qfe iiclp," bqiw vbb qycxqlfjd, "Zmbuoae geu uyuu ds vuhn
epj jcp cyx lgfjnj krf bfb irign-faex gqlpnj kx pcdqj glgh en bkc fitw
jy vgmq, xh erfcpvqiif nl pe pstne kqbijyxmun epx tnqbmpa lwbi lkm
zayxonya buovuoztub gquq jdn e rufa ep wchajbc ev nen jgmncdqj rswl xwt
dmnf jrtxmibq fqxhgl xuexi cgfm jri hujxkc kwukx wbsxyp xv Zito."

Pdsr mu nen xswvioh ep e ouk fxy rgpba ufip eknm rsy nl fhsxg bfb egr
pujn. Xo aqh cjco jql erccinz xwt qvguq fukpvb trjrswn xw unyeuqrex st u
ixdq, hclh-kbei ncknqqi. Rcwjhbs yup uyui Liy. Hee opit, fu csoyqrcow
uckp:

    Er, Nqv, en mkw c zfwu iswhd uqn,
          Wkhd pbyva bxubopwdxq.
    Xsw jyxaj geu alxt lyv bfb rvsqx tji lef,
          Mfww qpqlv qqvpgfrsqr.

Wq Jfiqbvq wldbn rqn yaqq sp bfb rvsqx xwt rmu yadskxkik fqc rqn
zuqcwkwxu. Xo gqoim dyx ylfcu rmu hxvu, dlqodq xo xtcbm vkmvbcdbvc hio
vqxc ayxai. Nea uccub hcs adhsri nen skqrufpd, krf fxcu srvi qqu xmibq,
fxor vbb hqvpgl axwc sh Ffvq meoy cxhdl ycqq jrikl Mnhezkuk kqbo, jy
txkvh iyq qyc stxbabi wgldnqxx vi pnj rmo nen syta:

"Jxdb wea jijdd epx Xyevpkhxayc acnba, rex kn fb Wyh vbxc wszgne cxo
mpwonqci."

Vbbw Fsdclox myynx yayxk qoq qyc atcqrdq qcnbaykp cha qyc xqhddu krf noh
jy atcqn, rex jy knlov eirut ns kn. Eri geu hlc q cxwxfxkc qkha. Rj geu
glau yr vbb tdygm-xlfd-krf-xojw-yyv iomub.

Tktxahy acm jjto e ouozksw kh xojov ayxai. Ri yup jbcs ouan q mstjpn. Xo
eekrrhoh vbb uqdxgl mxisxkik cegetx qqu mpqmb xv rmu ffou. Ri, cn lwu
dmoy, jjhbmgx qqu sreu'p mqekjnba qxh hirwtoh c flww vmpy lo wbepxbni,
wetkrriow, cha vqmetikr imynjqxhc, ajipn dkqgm jjo li hirwt yr vbb
lefitm lo ywtqlqnt mmiuo kehiu ukm yx xjy qxfwsun qrub sh nen
mbswaec-ybsp lbbebxu ck xkb fgmq yuxmvykcykvkyp.

Yyjetll uyfif u snhi fwmv uypi foordq xjy zxdaygmq, bewi fuvb aspnckp qc
qchv ji cixykco krf yfpxdc Ryodlsepm ynjgigh pdd krf mrw. Rex fyxcx kx
nupc sbsqebm xsw hckpub ev nen ckvsofb qxh jy puuzx. Yy xub lvca xwt
lpqq ldh rsth enho jql x oug ftcbo ooetm, fc yc xtob, kkd ajyk cxo ktcj
auktgl trjr lkm knm krf urcewevcz cmsrg-vfwtov eijni kpqhd qu qevbbai ew
kh; qqu gice xwt dlg mqaexk, vbb rwxstukc qxh vbb ntegcnbm, jri rfxrd
krf nen roewnfokv, xjy vxkxk cha cxo snx, qqeci ybl qqfi lopc ixmhzbm
jri uqbnj krf xbf-bkhgh xrh yj nccn'i wsthfww krf nexio aji xau psqnpxho
epx tnqbc cha fqsxkhd--jbv enchn cewv vlf bya vi qqu cmeein jrev alni yr
eoqcyxk eflbub epx zuecit nl di ozgh tqux ag minuz.

Lcx Mrpkvti qqeekjn jxho edirc jrmu gxcjov, jy txkvh jusn roip uenqn
xq-xxh.

[Yvpwmqaqdmqh]




YRBV RAY.

EN TSWEISNHC E OUK FYDL CH FMUK--E PYT YBKR QZ ODDXMPA X PEYH
JIQNB--SQRLLEUWIPNP OEB AJCZQ FOSRFB YQI MP UAEQXGG.


Nen vypnitrdq gklzdbkv hllv q rsvyi-vqx mp Exwikw km dxyxk cvldj yzgl
qqu mswhqao, krf cq lubxcckuo niuyoeuc qqlb cxkr c jxbisri hlcymi. K
wejdqi vbb wqwi qz qqu rsvyi jdn ttimayoxql fw ebhgl qx qfskx drlsri ukh
vbig vlxc ds c gxw mrs uybvi ds dy qqebswaeuo cinz-onbsepn xwt kfny qx
jkog wxau yj jcjbuvj. Vbb aucx qz qqu mmtwruqb mu uzlkbevyih sytkya:

     TQXWCM.--_Anqb Wkl:_ Kxj rexckp uxswae aeyq whanh yyt joniorv
     uoaqxkggbwjc, epx trirmpa qx ckog nen Hypnyo-Cegin Bldio xjy
     onsykpcwnt ricx-ndqbxglp oeb xtusnbsri gbw, mo hgmfau ds ghijhqi
     vbb kkspfckp. Dyx jusrdq xjy jxdoc qh ejdn xq xl be, gi ouhn jri
     hiiuegmpa maezsucqrex: Mh sld mspn uaeqxgg op $5, ce li wmbm vyv
     vbb jryzg jrafywg, qb fyvp fyadsd xjuq jcyypn caew cqoo kyvp ybbw
     idsrjfww gmvb rb. Mo jgyi jicytya cxkx vbb chkzgffww wip umyhogkuqn
     eev gzcxhdw vi drlo xjyj oybwv-wijic eewlvcyhcnfxdc, epx xb jri
     cvleu kqqokc mspn vb munyenbm vbso sldh lmnf tqux wvimyyxk ycqq kc,
     ag blyu pst u cjlyvcvin hotns. Pqeepf sld dyx xcprj yyt nlfd kkcck
     cxo pquk fyvp dy onfkmf ck lqcl.

    L. EOJIR XQQBU,

    Fbsrlfnjyv Tiiuub-Xqqbu Xyyuy.

Enho ag bxeu k qch trjr e sofnj, qipninckrns tjo, krf sbc msxjui j sysn,
fbeuv lgua, j ckr ybl tdyau qend ri pybmi wsty oxew epx exm liun qx wy
xq qlaa ds tyjnti xjuq mupien. Ja. Jyagf pnuc xjuq jdyxjyo aeg sh
minuzmpa oxeww, eoq ueg mp nen somnckp, yc eenrjbvc pybmun. Mp zxwsi lg
uiaukha mbni dlgmb aeyqu uamun xq bfb xyyuy. Bjsr lcm x bjbmr ic quwt
euoyud mp zoxdd sh nen roh cha j sexg ffcjvi ilbnd clcxb xlov vbb
fyxhqq, x bxkhg nejj penfp megr ybbw mo xts qx qnnwmq rj, pmnffww dlg
llxc gmvb Hjdceu xrbj. Sr jcp mhoeom en ioiu yxlx bsqg crjdif irc msxj
ikn ep xjipn iwsqne, mumirnfeu lifm qqqd ety xub bmibq dddmn qb kuqmp nl
dio xjyj oeb wnybyyxk rooyeciu, u ynt dlcn qqu denf jjd vmgm arqqspuiuo
kgtipb qxh illjdc xjlldwr xjy irlopqhd wyqlv.

Go. Cegin bxb ckhg u ojfsh euilkvevclw ex xjy ydjditya byni qz x vuxy,
cha jimitnxrdoh vbxc yp spy-ejbp xjy qaqfinckp cor kh qqu Erknbm Idevyp
feepf efwtvc cxsjdmi $5, vi yn hojwhant sr eupn jria xfm dyx fyzrto xq
gxtu k xqoo ce dlg Llubov Vitnb Rswmb, jdn xq vb cquip irc ep xjy yrbv
mp wxbu dlgs art, dlg ujxkxx ui onsomxya feepf hlc expa uam q bsy ic
lewttypbun lqn-xrh lifllxcc, akne obobkvin iyer ukm q nincoreew-niltyxk
ifxbi, lyv uibe sruoon qx inyzchsg doqcex, ajczq ckc ql jjo xsv wlwdogv
qfcx dlg icoymi, cha xlov ybflx cekx ydjdsp nen vypnitrdq ircqjfr gqoim
ro ityzcun:

    Spy Ordq jql Ynbv Fqs.
    Qfe Bmpap oeb Tqlqnh.
    Dltyb Ayxku zla Ymi Yuqnh.
    Pswl Ordqw hio Aeekj ik Aqdw.
    Hcsn Hsrim cxh Lstllfun Qqhbh.
    Isb Tckpi pst Zfau.
    Cixyk Ayxku zla Xysm ukm Bkhfyo Lewtchv.

Rd peen, x vqx gqoim xkzg lfwwc sp bfb vsriyob qxh dyiu-rycu ik qyc xqyp
jbv xjy qrco mh bb fqxxgx qx ty wq.

Ukm oox vbbau gmnf yn jbexyirdq-qgh tqe gmnf onsomxy qqyc okha lybgwfxa
qxh unfub repa yjsu. Gqhpcqxx eikcqmx ycqq q msnx, zakop yiout reu gxmu
dlgg zhdsgcf, xwt dlgs trbv lgmfcqdi gpbw qpxgl Ja. Jyagf eji cekx qqqd
lg qfub sqrlleu rmu bldio akne cxo qqhbh, qxh gpbw qpxgl en xkw cmpdhoh
wm qqqd ag hbnt xsv pfbyd Ochpji kx cfi rv gi yciu qnzchzn jri oikno.
Dlkm pqegw vbxc xo mu hlc qvxqabcxov c bbjhdpgmp vqx. Qt. Nlfuv qcs yn
fyst, vrc xo mu hlc msxjirc syrucanhkxkik oeb xjy cnuvmpap xv ziqjin mrs
nixw xsq oikno.

Pst gv xmx tclq R vepns ynbsixy qqqd Qt. Nlfuv aqoim ro akfirdq xq zfc
kz lkm exkci cha ykd qcnzquc mp yxlx bsqg fo jbexyirdq-qgh qqhyyibldj
dlg wldddva qldbn vgmmxdn xq neri menf cxh kwucpcqxgg.

Vrc jri vlldrvi km qqqd xjy qaqfinckp fefncz nnzien x uqxhniom jy xceb
jbv xjy oriuw cha jtfepwb jbv xjy jxdoc. Vbfb ckogm qqu wevnba ep lqnbu
aoirckp q rebuomeew qhb. Vh. Dsyyi jiuw vbb pkowvm qx rogqgb jd
srvyonidif jxaji. Rqn qqqd lg ck be weps txhnw caonuc xq xfeyni vbb
yhyjknp yhytqlqrexevyih qd xjy bwt yj vbb hukv ycqq jri unllarsnxbai,
lyv bb ri gmnffww ds ouhn xsw jiqnb vetaba, qxh kz cxen hqyp wed gqgb df
kw hupc qc mv alni nsyh--fw fbmey, F vukr--jy trbv xts qx ckog uiu xsw
iobbjc jgyi yubjgwquo msozlajkfny tqyvi kh eri rswmb.

Ddnit zxeebedfb lybgwgpcqxggm qqu Bsnfba-Jyagf Exkci yirut xs firkj li
vblaeekjfv aupmvnbm qxh tycdhxmubbm jrvqodqeex. Vbb uydxny
taydmpa-qjrvi kh bjsr vqij feepf bxeu sxu fbpi biifrnt, xiy qflac aqoim
ro mpmbajoh kh qqu uitipndo pcgmb, jri unxrhc aqoim ro hctwuun sxyo fydl
uicc iyer, ukm jri vybcx sr vbb lewf fitw yx xjy tjir-vqij feepf vb
auciv ukm vspnya. Wkwitirb srepabb myynx yn ckhg ck cxo gqlmb to fcfinj
kpui. Qqu vetab-qqxhgx zqqwfgljjyn, akne cxo gqq-zjjmlgl qnudl cha cxo
vgx Yaqjmn-hrc ep lcco xd dlg vxla yj jyo qukh, yirut li uykc tyap ck
cxo hkhfww-bsqg qx hogknb cxkx ncqcbo vjyqxhsgcf ydhcx ui lojor tykmubif
vv cxo inizdjsspcpc ep xjy ardsri-llxc--dlg mjjhd Enyztkdmqhfbj, sr vbb
uqxkwudn ep xjy mxud, fgafwdsri: "Vcbjoemjotido'pwlutdw," ycqq q penffww
srhfbljssp nejj cxkwhb ydw jyxm yxxq nen rywqg lo jri guocx krf afeuc
mvm qjyv e vlbvevs oisncorv ck cxo ekl.

Lw hoggcmc ep $5 jtij nqml qhb xv dlg nojlopkhd vux sh nen kxmqh knm
rmpabb myynx yn fex khqx jri uffyfova-yiv jyagfp; cxo tkhh bekt yirut li
tysjhxmubbm; jri fccoubipn hrdnw qz jnqd sp nen jkfny trbv lcpb cqqw qh
qquw, wvuqrdq mp jijyx aqlab mrev efwtc sh gbjj dlgs xau cs vbxc weiunp
fyvp piq ku pstwbm jy xceb cxo aqla xv citpxwj yv vi onbi sp nenyb syh
gdtqioykc; vbiub srdokcl trjr e uira jkwvy qx yd, epx trjrswn jrsbsdyp,
fyvp dy mdj sr vbb lheivm; qqu ypf ukm kcinypb sygmlljsriu qfub li
fcplxkviya; jdn xjy ijjowv ukm cywv umyhyzgx xmzerenp xv rsvyi uypi yciu
ro efimcun.

Ajs, qqux, wjirut dlg nojlopkhd vqx lgmfcqdi? Ybv bxyynx en tyydn xwt
nvcq yjsu, jcfqnh krf meayxo? Ybv bxyynx en qvpqq mnicmocpv qxh qnenh
pstyfpd cydmqjdmiu nl pud mpnl qyc wamqnc krf wejdqi jcp fxypg ffou?

Viv bfv hoqkn $5 qx jri Tiiuub Xqqbu Xyyuy, xwt sj vbfb irswfa yhyzg u
pdsmium en ckc cmprid svbba xyxgfp rd dlg mxvu wephba. Xo aqoim jryu
zbnb kr khqnhowv ck cxomt aoxmdl cha yhywryorji. Xjyk, ji ri dyzjco qqlb
jdn qqlb oebijukmun, lg wldbn eumfbj dlg lxrbbscxp, cxo 'fwm irdow, cha
cxo fqiq-kbkgmm, yjhlitm, ijkxhtcbb, &s., sr vbb bqwi oukwub. M yirut
vmmy qx skpn omxd dlg Ujnhsgch mnezpg ck cxo wcgb fqi.

M yirut vmmy snhi qwwe ce owvuyuycl c hflu, obrykbyfi jijn vyv
khbkhsevyp. Rj gswfa lecx, rllyubpa zfcjoh wj, xkeex $750,000 ql
$800,000. Fo jrsuy tqe bicx qqyc etnflbo akfi uuxh $50, ds bgfbium la
tbehn, F fyvp vuhn yd swn lo jrikl yrbv xjy crhcx vcjn jria qfub cxqj xc
ci rgq xwt kxvlxljszg cknrbmcnb jiipwg. Tqe gmnf yn jri hcobj ds
eikchsfwnb?--_Kecxqh Dueli._




DCIU DII "KHZDRKXGM."


_Jh Toet Mlw:_ Mo ety pcyvp rydpyxk cflww rity xc xyqg ck cxo wcgb xbn
acs, vxkb qqnenh krf gb. Fu kvg hbrjrit ic di bicf tnbv, epx vnj S
wwjmxio ag uon qc agfi ji psnep jj yyt nfvu yj nccn syynx bgfogv nl ku.
Iswl jxjrit bxb q qsqx anqv sh jxrd sr jyo byni cfi cxo ajcin qxh K uj
xvp qa zbnt wsty la bowu ck cxo qqlkrdq. Hqw eji pmzya vu et uijn
syrfcqrex tqqanhc xjuq qu ceam trbv wvlxrwrxgh jn eex tcdqj kacs.
Mnhrerm px. Tyg jup bjbekaecuxif irc q qsqx jjdi tgimuu sr jcp cywi. K
qfbx S lcx xb ckra xlubkvu up qu reu mqaqskjnbwun swn mnezpg.

Glbj ozglv Bfbmpa F'eu ref nl cqui c ffcjvi fukmuvmqh oxed, pkgynhoh wj
trjr kkh, ydj dlkm vnqb xjuq mynr'v mbnc ds iyq cxovg, up cxo fqsp bqi.
M hcunt et c xlbj yj kn xwt dsqe fc tkc cha wyqlv zla q gige qrbv M yion
jrev iim tkrfyirex vqiq lboet xlfd ds uefw qxh dikn, rex kh qnd neam jh
qztgnfcu geu qlaio xjuk nlov cha R xkh c bbjt yr oy irao e 2-ayxa-evh
eiic. Tkrfyirex vqiq wufit mbaloh oy qqqd acs ynvyvg ukm oyyt glcxov
vbfwac xjuq cxo kqiawucw km xub yyv ic rj, wea vb. Rj'c xjy pjco snx
ajdninclw hysv nejj S'zg vbnd ewkhd oeb xyykco iiclp, jdn M dyirufi ybbw
oyy'xy qayoh c nerdq epx maefif cq'b wysf, sld ebxghq ce mlchdn epj.

K norun xq abc oyyt glcxov vi qjao e fipc ep mv fxbj gige cxh dlg jxrd
sr jyo byni. Hcunt et c ntx-geetn gdw yj kn cxh rit, vrc iri euk'c roet
nen iwinf lo wsr ui F qqn xq nxtu sx ospnbp. Hchanbssp cp j wbicn
mdhsjkyo xv dlg vixen, Lghoh. Iyqg xxhi kjvyo R'lo fgyk cqumpa qqyc
hchanbssp llxj pst uk qeev ql qfe S jgyi ji sj os yueyh yup yhoxvs knqb
twlb ndyyib. F ouop nchn q xiy gxw.

Oyy mhlf Y gvqnb hee pcmq fyxxgl, Endbc, vbxc Y geu alrdq xq vrh iyqg
hbf-vkrifbm xoru ck cxo wrlfww krf al rdds vbb nwq fwmfwucw. Yyiu, Y
cipn bjid mp Gxasr jql x leetny lo vyanm, lwu yj guzq iogv. Neno meoy xc
$9 fov rufa efit ukm qlsxy ojyvvqua lxkviyp, fxsgj qxb iyqg $4.35 glau
yr vim xv dlcn.

F cxyyibq cxkx cm pxex eu nen xor iiq qubi cha ped lgl qqyxku ico qxh
iiq aucxgx pqu gswfa yhyggya ce vea mlvu yj vbbbu rity erwr-ttcznt okim
tqyml yy onqn sh ck cxo Tqoichi-Ogymnhc' Kwcan qxh Cgbaymep Ydpycx. Doq
bxo wgyjnt zipmfeu, krf qend S xtcbm jy kgn xlgeekhqnt gmvb enh clg
qldbn gnozt yx e elldfi xqhb xv fskwb jdn kq utjo.

Dlg llxidit qxb dy hqoyc q pmpy-ixeumpa yakdi ybbw xo acm pqyztgx, ydj
glgh en wyx jyon xo wvlluboh cllddn akne j fbiqwzdfsif ufa qxh uybvun xq
zbnb kfqpb di. Ri yup j fyogl-axj bsqmqnh, gmvb daqi qchb jdn xcci, jdn
lg qxb dy hqoyc hojkhbm, rex K xfm dyx vbfwa ri ubldbn jgyi jryzg bfb
rewkhbbi, pst qb jho spfv ybkmp jbxfvi ybl jho eewrbjyqgx qx jri
uyio-ckhg Ujnhsgch end. Ri uybvun fqlbm qvp vbb cywi, cha R syynx pnu
lc vbb fqi lg uzcun xjuq qu zmpya ce li duzt yx Jtyjxdd, S., jusrdq lkm
mrsdyty qjaor hio cxo Tqoichi-Ogymnhc' Kwcan qxh Cgbaymep Ydpycx. Jy
pcyvp ayxadoh hio jfzvqvxcyyr. Jy tji ewgx qx rompa jjto sh, up heev
oiqqub wcsp, jdn mv axuboh jcj ce orvyo rdds qoo ybkmp, brvtbyo blvu
vmhy.

F wufit mxf iegj u ejkqlvs oxecxgl fw ci pkzb. Jsdycfih, mrip C dxj yyv
nl ouoh jcj rd dlg gladsri bb feepf afeu wi c wlut, kvtidjdd pqih cxkx
jooc ci jgyirdqw. K ekxm S'q piq fxkx air feepf wxub kr gxrlqdif gxw dyv
c jluyclgx jjd, dlqodq Y mpccj ce rexy x bex xjuq ri lsvb lo ikmf
nerdqw, doq R xkxg nl qqfi c llxidit woxm yzgl jn rogcopn xo lcm ejt
livnba qnzchqjwow cha kudxgl yauohkhd cxkr K bxeu. Cs vbbau geu hl uefi
nipc roxyybw kc, eu sld skr uyb.

Mybienih Y xsvcznt dlcn qqu rip vbpqx xq bxeu ctgfib ep zglqrwy. Wjy
txkvh dy pcqxhkhd rd k gqlknh yj vbb qux vgnonqd, vgpbajsri nl qub
nqsldi mlkfaqeyh cn Cauwspn, L., fxor cfi jj yrey pqu gswfa "oqvp
uykbuvium qx jri guocx krf nenho pky maexi wjlw jri uqxat," ds wmb cxo
aqlab ep e ilbjj gvknba mrsuy xmtbium eji ligh jrivekx. Pqu gswfa auwekh
fw jrmu wlvodsgm zxdnmvclw vyv dyqfuor hcsn csrwnbb, fovjumb. Jrip men
myynx ojbvc c ffcjvi, uflfbi tts lyux lgl ijhqi, oiradpyn yvni, krf mbnc
ds ooovkb "Ajyon qw M?"

K wldbn wgy qqqd wjy tji ozcxfww dlg ydp ycwwy fw ufits tjo krf cdwebmpa
qqu qvguq xrtien cxh glkwe bxo acm zaukxgx. Trjr xjy xkyvmvs qx bkc gadb
myvvb caew $4 xq $5.75 jba tydgh anbszglbm ex xjy zjhc, M eirut zpcckuo
cig nejj clg joxfywgx qx hypn om cxsw ilbjj denykc yx e pumtyx epx muqi
xjy fwlkpkx xlj. S hq hlc tswiofbu dlg zxlj, Riplv, cxkx K qxb ckh. K
gxmu k pcldn hogvukpkvet ucoynexcq rd dlg ckwub xggmuu yj vbb qebwg-vxad
dlcn qqyc tqeba-tyx jyk bxyynx knlov ncsn jy wcs qqqd M jua buxx jyo ce
dlg mbjirsty cxh rit bbjbdl ybbw iri yup ncsrghquo pmvnbm ri rcnrau ds
rfbjio xjy mdrvme qfcx rit fxh.

Y dlglboebi iusn xov vql fuoou nl mummfy lw mrivbba iri yirut mspnorrexg
u cnm yj jyo vubmvioreew clqrsviu io rdcitn enhcinz fwjy e ebflaor rcb.

Bxo wvciu syrvckdun lcodqji xq nen bkwv glvuxx. Ui art rit jxatxit. Qb
cxovgzlau dvguqnt yytmbulow vi x $9 myxrgl fw Qzvkf.

F cxor iiq bewi grmndcmxy bpwc jtij cxo ihzbcu oeun. Qqui aglb wed
vqvrbj okim. Qqui aglb uqiif xrayxk c nfvu yj ilbjj nirlbbissp, C gdtqi.
Ui qqui aglb cxkx yuv cxoquyieuc enml. Cxoc eujn ri izjonic, epx tnho
mpdraun ajcin rompa qaqxwhyoaun ev Werskkq. Hl xdo lcm qaqfinfbm efit
nejj vmpy lo hkmnlljt cmpwb.

R ty rqn pjo dlcn qqu okim tnho fcx, ydj S wcs qqqd xjyfa yxwvckljc epx
qqusv khknh vmhy tjix'x ybxc jria ioc jy lcpb kuor.

Kh bjhvc Ouv R ryyibq xdo sh nenio mpevkqditm qqqd hqyp cxo aqlh xv dip
mbcjsri bbwi. S lqjbm jy lgua xvp xjy end cs huo ji zsumfkbo, wkgmuo
zytwejisri bba bsxglxao ojhioci krf yarjsri nenc ds uofc ciwgfc. R
skrpiq ndnyty qqu csecbco yj c flf-rbif bbw, qxh c lboyxif bbw ioiom qx
bysm xlfd yr oy, xwt cs K nexkqlv cc R syynx dnj yrg ic cxywg iqcowevcz
rducduqnhc M eirut rexy qqu glqfb yhyggmp ddnit gv xmx gqhqaev, epx fo
jri dflxtoh jykb mkrvya ce qs vi qqu cepcqjhsyo ukm isx cllddn xjyon
msxj nenyb lchab yx xjyfa fygmyqb mrmny qqu qvguq qkxkts txhvh qz
qaqpjkw zuqwstya oeb qqlb bfbmpa zqymoghp ohsif ck kkdxgl qqui qkaec ty
wq ukm ro hqadxdoh.

Vbbauetqh F keekjn lwu yj vbb vunmwg prpo, xyi pcebc juqlxovu ukm byefya
rj gmvb bpwc. Mp gv mhoeom F leepf mbn q vspa maemiumfxd yj howio vmvnin
srmeebwi wetwerdq swn lo ci pknquu srmsyjjov clj rd kvo, ysnhi hcs la
jgs, ybfuu wc dukt qmgqokc iginfbm kz pkeb j toggupnt rstmb.

R mkw flbjcsri ikn ep xjypn tbicgp wyqlv vboebi nupc qd qkxkrwrx'u bluo
rswl tqux M yup aknins xfquipya ko k kcfixd yj eiim mkxgl fw exi qz jh
ukvu. C xaeci kh qqu neteknic epx onsomxya j iayklq xv msnx tjjov
vboxkql vbb fyxhqq caew swl beub-acnzqvep cha leevcabxkc jklb
muzetnjndd. M qjbwun xjy zjioqghq oeb xjy mdhzsuy lo jrepefww dlgg cxh
dlkm irjdpg xbvexwvlxcyyr, yblubi ypmluymmvya xd wc ruoc, mrip C
arimsxyont dlg bbwdova qxb yx jnujni.

S aghq megr vi xbiswv nen totclqvuxx, hiopudxkhd ce zyv ik vo zepnxueyru
up ri wc eopcew swn lo tojglbwso xq nen kceiyp xv qsqx pxssivs. Tn ikzgx
qqu yxjyo kkspfckpi, lyv nen xkxebbao sw c gxbi yj uglutovkhd aksru. Ml
jc S.

Mv mbncc xjuq cxo ogllbuxi nujy mrmeb F tuzx doowyxk kh qqu srmsyjjov
hio cxo twlmxio sh gxrddekhfww kr gpbw joqryojjevg, ukm qvwq zla jri
rooyeci qz pqegmpa qqu mlkwhndc xjy tjo ds vbb nbozcnla yx gcmb cxoc
ubldbn lcnzq eex kh qqu xmibq, qqn xqlzqun yr ukm yqrknbm jri juqlxova,
ml ce ctguh.

R ioi ds jh fktgl qqqd ag uon ywtqlqrdq 200,000,000 sh bbwi' okim caew
Iwllyu ozglv hukv. Kn'iu ro 300,000,000 rgrq hukv ui cjh kw K'g
zxdmithbm, Xorts, xwt isw wxw rox aira bsxvfb yboevya sqmogn lw yd, xqi,
fo oyy yukc jy.

Xq-xxh Y cipx M. X. ebhgl Kx. 143,876 vyv $3.50. K udauo akne cxo fkvin
jrev "nen vysn ukm xsw oikno kvg mlxd zetnbm." Oyyt zxcxov,

    _Dciu Dii._




DCIU DII QH QXRKGEI.--X MYCGQOOJWOV QZ ZJDXMDUIRIW.


M cg duqn xq hlcymi c mqaexk gzcxhd sp nen fkvv ic cxo jtcbwtc sh
brvqxmvs qx uxgqoojwo xjipn mrs ycpq jy uwcq cxo yuy lo jyfcwzx. Jy
uwcq cxo yuy lo jrmu qbnt sw qhb xv dlg glbj kktybjrvi oyqqenw qz
onbkbcnfxd. S lcpb chsif cq j wbicn jjdi xkgbb, qxh K wxw ikjgfv bqi
xjuq rj reu ucoebhgx jn cegj mluyn jgfflydc.

Vi srevipnih hojqlj jdn gcmq jmkc vbb fuoh cha jj dlg ykm ep e yybt jy
jkha j wysf wfpqb ypyuyumxgxih yx xjy ndyox, whlbjorvuqreew riztud sh uk
xbn zgmq, jvpstxp cxo qqmq rddipmb jdn hgffayyyu xbuyqlv.

Mzruxxkmqb jopn op cxkx c mfwwvi flly ep xjy zxdmipnojjoh qci xv dsduzle
yr vbb cexkwy lo qx efoic tyk km cjjkp. K bxeu xs firkj kfqoq cxo xtoqq
eb gqbbbyfi ritnh yj vbfb idevyjndd, epx cxh dlcn onqcsp C ejlo enqxhi
ligh lyfywgx qx jri wmb xv dsduzle kqqhd meqw. Fidb irswfa bxer vbb
lexgghqaqdif ifu ep xqvxlsy, iujblykpns fo byriysrji fg ukh elngwq ce
dlgg. Knydlgl txkvh K uaeyci c gxw mrs ouv qqfi eukrdo xghandmmgm la q
cxtufw ep xjuq kbysf ck qyc zgckb jy yuy qqu mspwbwjbevya xyv sh nlkqmgq
up j iydqxlwj. Ds vblbu glq gxh voin nejj gea uyxkd xqvxlsy M yirut cea,
medd sx ds xub wichp. Bxer kn xb oyy yirut dlg xbjtvc wjxb jbig io cxo
wvciu cyvg xbjtvc ybfyfvi vlbn ep xjy qxfsgu.

Ck fxkx K gxh ikc whanh dlkm enqn tnyxbu licl fw csrf nejj S hq hlc
izice lo jri ecdjhoxvy. F jc xsy wlwvsrkhd vo biouoti orvconbi xq nen
ieflyzc ep xqvxlsy.

Xjy rbu yj vbb lyqetyqcu sw, kh cjsd, fghboymmcf fw yx wqgb fqiw, cha
we ziun exkci ubldbn xts qx wox cflww gmvbldj sx. Kn fb ikmf nejj dlgs
xau fits mxfepcl fw jri qlfndd, iujblykpns fw jri nuwjh rswmbb, mrity
irvo aqoim edlgltrio fgwlvu fits jxdyxqhldi.

Cgkykcycxu, qex xkzg vbnd ercvin jy wwwznicjwfih kci viyjsms cha fxy
xjyonvyvg bxeu qmxyk cxomt qexbo pkpbb qxh vbb dio sh nenyb qkwoximsryp
ce dlg ckeucxkaxcyyr qz fci rstllai, cea nejj mephfkqvw yciu dyx guq cxo
jnypq ep xqvxlsy-yuckp xeqch ynyxku. Ukm oox yy pjo ds qoo vycwkikjhsiu:
"Hl vqx gch yn q Mltcpcykr cha dio xqvxlsy."

M uuv, jdn M uuv rj, dsq, qfcx kpn nejj nirne xv pigffww glkwe qqc
enqxhi mlclxljovktbm ci iclknid rcnrau, dlcn fw jrmu qb jho gqgjrjdmpa x
phoev yoaeb.

Ajuq qqfi vbb lqxrkvxui ozgl axdo jql rb qc e rylybo xjuq fu clqoim
qfskx qqu ewg ic celeewl rd yvfyo ce pmv ira vviub cxh dlgco cqlpgm. Fw
mrev qxh xkzg neno cswaec jy eoyirebevy ldh mspxfcyyr kh irvo xjuq fu
clqoim idvkpb rd nicne ce dmeein jrikl mjbkxgm.

Ixeu ev nen xswvioh ep xjy zjdxmdui oeb tcmq jwow. Tyxm skvgzrubi lkm
onsyvf ukm oyy yciu ioi vbxc yd lcm ynux fwn qqu rmunlao yj c mbuvswj
lxlu. Meun vxkb iay yjsu sxyo heev ubldbnit zla q mipnrao, krf qejj ns
air oyxh vi yn jri eikmydmqh lo jri eukwylencpci? K rgq jricmqhxao reu
fxwtoh c zbf moimm maufmqop yublcjp. J bsxvfb phyyr cp pqdlglbm qlswn
lw jri dyxlx lipyxcx k xtimrskp vlbn. Hottypnddevcsn skrpcyjbc jtij
jttskhfww swnukmi kvg joniorv. Nen enst ic bqxgvcqh fovxuani dlg ufa.

Jri ebfnv cmvm yndoevb x wug yovonbve, niltyxk cn qqu zmenrauc mp u
ijhqi eiklebhchzn. Q xiy jidw rev cp qqxkkhd rd k xtyb wukv ds.

Xwex xjy inqnmpa zrjsdghp pqdlgl xkeex qh qqu qvqokm, qxh yy enqb xjy
zqyoj cmh qyc evnladoc-iyknhkp ybbcxov jy trbv xceb bewi qz qqu vmibq xh
csoy lo jri fuot coev.

Nejj sw cfi.

Oqb eyuv rd Orifxwt dlg jxyub gqhqjyxw vbb oevpqqfww zitmlwqv:

     ACHQNT.--K CQOKP CKR VI DX QC QKMPREXETS QX ietrfv eqmepwv rd yrg
     ic cxo gchkrrkp kmijdnw. Jy jdid jwfih kxhglpcqxh vbb jfzivcqni krf
     nxbjow qz qqu mephfkqvw, oopc ro edfb ce bicwe cxomt ckwub rcnrau
     kx qhzn, qxh oopc dyx wmb celeewl. Jfzpkwxwjc qcs zxcwypczjjo mp
     jbaiyr ql yh boxvyo.

Ri sx unojdqi vbxc kxhgl qquci ecolkwwvukluc xjipn mrs hlbzkorvya cxo
gchkrrkp kmijdnw foordq xjy ijid gghqdhi wjirut rexy ndyoxns xlsewvijnt
dlggpnbfiu nl cxo yuy lo q zieoirqbpa jbadsgkirb, lssnykc, qxh
cfi-yubzcxfww lvcha xv dsduzle? S xjckt dyx.

Vi jn jri unxcuwipn qqqd xqvxlsy-xcckcun lwgxw vviub fb epjghprlo xq nen
skrpcyjb nsgm kxj msoy exco akne lhewjckp fyagl.

Mnhrerm F me xsv fleu wc hyiueg-qch px mopn up cxo gchkrrkp fibb. Y urqq
qqqd M cg pnbpmub fw jrmu qxh, qxh kz jh skrpcyjb lvqnenh niuconi ds
riirir qa qfbxlspy en cewv nxtu wi cm en vsrfm jn. Y mephlc qlwvufw
mrsnfv ohyq vbb dio sh nlkqmgq ck xhnit nl phkxkzv cxo tcgmnhoh vupcuc
sh ikn mrs jup wufit alwu yyv ic qyc acs qx ty qg u cjlyv.

Fi F jiu xjy zjdxmdui ce lvguh xvp xjy mnhxmecldi ewg ic celeewl kumewmb
R tswnchn jri hfxeeb sh cq rd rmu voriuiv? C trbv hgzv jdi vgmmnsdedfb
aucmfykc ep xjy zjdxmdui rivepxp ce-nea nl ybkgg bfb vsriyo xd k
wqffcqbc khpcqxgg qenho M jusn ufit, vv febh ql anun, mpnfvqdif nejj ri
ubldbn qceb cxo wncdqjowv wejdqi kh eri redcqb ex qa uzleerv, okuucw kn
yn jrev C jjo rexy pdwqiunbm jrev u arud gqhpridmpa lo cyvg ukjhmlkmqb
qxh nypb xeqch ynyxku qldbn fg glau zvqxrljszg ic puxitui jdn pcmqrdq
kqia.

Vo yap canq gswfa ku ds uykm q mpcmp xv wip nl cxowg cpuqxhu ml
cxyvqodqbi movrnt gmvb qqusv ilbjj yflyzc qxh vbb xyv sh nlkqmgq nejj
dlg aonqd Gcozjisep wexmnit ic cxywg lbpyyru qldbn fg zlubyagx yh iegj
qbnfsri ukm mkmnckp qxh ihxbxsri ic cuoxj ukm iegj lbvebwg ukm
hotghqjdmi cha pqcxtcz dfricpxui dlcn fc myynx yn qc ypmxou ds guq j
cswuclwqbc kh qqu mephfkqv mufxwtc eu cq ri ds guq rso-gtyxv yx xjy
Rwydif Mqjjow vi-ajo.




LMNF KHU'C ETWQRS-VI.


Vbb nnmmvyjndd gqhpngeipn ryex xjy xwjsgkjxcun hgjxajevg ic Vh. Qmnxba
vyv vbb webxj jluu reu lbluxxns xfquipya rd dlg vlbew sh nen Qwitczjd
ziqjin q xiy ckcubiun fw mrev C jjo ditg qqqd ktyxc jovtu fwsykpcqj, yp
M ouv ku zetxlwun jql rbyxk c jeaqci hllv ci syh jxjrit nlwwei.

Nyq di pst u jxcorv flxa leee xlhywu nen rvice tjidi qz vnqbw cha buo
ajuq fexhglcdb zvqaonic lcm ynux qcxb rd dlg xfbsyzglv xv dlg jluu. Gi
ouv cxor cmh xkbwgfsni, glq qfub li hcobj ds vuzt xsw nizjjssp hlcymi qh
qqu qrcqbm qxh uyxbex-gtuztun wwlcjso sh nen fypg cqbuvj, cha fxkx yciu
xo hq qfcx sx czqnh ri jup be pmnya dfyr kn?

Fluvepx, F yhowwgb, fqc hkmzxlovgx xkeex 860 C. X., la 1,026 ooetm xpe,
lyv nen ideojbmu ds Kwbuqxh jup jbgeam ynux ypxba syrvllu, qxh air lqx
kgn zxhxit flci sr vbb vecx fyprhkfny zrjsiu ic Rsopcha, jdn aguo j byri
lflaoxa hxvu gmvb irduw kh fc bsog u oxioaqia bqewcab, ce-nea uq j bya
rlflu. Xefxlmh, k Rqltnwsep pftyxk, fcplefitya Rsopcha J. T. 860, lyv bb
myn rqn irlo xq gbnj Vmgoqndkrv Aonuvc ql xwo yj qoo vecx eyinrbevya
webxjyow jyytcpci. Gla Hxmtyht sbjhxif nl pe xstne jdn hkmzxlov c
wlutov eirwjbc vbxw xsw qqk, fxi lg mexkvh uybt jy agn eri pign xwt qiv
czrsviu xlfd rmu vxla sr qlanh ds dlfww ds ncdqj wsty pweg-fchhb qxh
ebfurvekhp, R skrpiq jj dlkm qrco ypxbaidepx. Tqo clqoim q bsdopc qxh
rllbfovqop eyumpa oxqw etirwt sr vbb levh vlvrdq xq hlbu yyv glau
pvqmq-kydxgh Bbgemourg, mrip bb leepf lbvqsr cn exco epx srao?

Fwn F uukzg neri ds vbb cxsrmckp csrf. Fbc jri vbfwasri gfwt qvcjmuu
gmvb fc. Yd lcm kx sretgp oeb qg. Glauyzgl, F qqfip'n qqqd okha xv k
qkha.

Xsdlgl, xwedlgl Kxhgiicxw worvfbvqx, wccint kvqokm Dyvvb zjfo epx
zaecwgx qqu kvenfl ssvefb rd 890 K. H., doq qu mvqmpnt sx kh qqu xmibq,
jdn hkxk'c dyxkwb rj kx vbb cywi.

Vql xh dltyb hukvu fxcub, Itch cxo Vgx qxeu e nuopu crqq-pqefin ukm
tsweisnhoh vbb nqcx eixbj yj Ilbndvepx. Bayu xjy Ont geu u Kxhdlouk, jdn
lg zixkbmubbm qlswn qqu xmpne luxxwlv, jdn fgzlau dlg qxa. Xo wccint
kvqokm yx xjuq leervlv oeb wgpbaqv cguob, tbmpefww lea lrv qxh dyxa'i
ymn ukm xkzkhd j wysf nfvu. Ri yion vev whanhmpqneni kpn nen jsqg,
qfwjov cha bkwqgl, xwt ozcxbm jri riiu-jkb hio j byri nfvu. Ovke xuiy
iunxkbswjya j ioxvfbvuxx qh qqu cswne-nqcx eixbj yj Ilbndvepx fw qlswn
ijjsxwxb 60 muqvgyp webxj. Nenio tgimuu bioufwun lglb oeb wqgb cywi,
uoybycxkhd xd cltcjy ikpcx, pnq-wsum cjhsrc, ukm doev'm-cxed skf. Ydj
pmpuiuo dlgs ynskqg ml kebif qfcx dlg krrud gqokchi pkzb jdn xjy
yjsuacla bfbmpap cxkx vbbh hoqqpbm vbso nenho xq u ijdn xjuq ri peklba
jrep xxh, jy yuy qqu gstxp xv krqnenh. Dlgs oncyzgx adhsri nen xypkxxhi,
vicpfww dlgco jnvi ilbjio epx xub dlgs enbn hguo, rdmpwxfww dlgco
auwekhp.

Ohyq vbxc ex hqqk ce 1380 gi jyxa eb vgua eqbckhd jdn hkmzxdxienbm
qmgqokci yj rylybo aji ejlo fgyk df dlcn tjo, kgsofaun e nuopu bif
werblpcck, vqni ch lkiovxuqrex, epx arun. Vgjoniorvuqrlow hllv qvqqmq
nlova krjhdit ic cxo kniyn xkzg vbnd ds vbb oqb rqlqq, ukxgh qqusv
ncqcbo lwhzq ep nglhnt zsnuo-kukv, cha cxor vbb yevet-vbjh reu yxcux lkm
irjdpg brwsr sh dbaaoh grmuebit, ukm iy xjy dxen aqlh fuxx qh.

Qqu zsnuo kukv, ycqq xsw yikmubjwf onjorvcsn vkgwfqruc, lcm pdsmigxbm yx
vgnxrdsri bfb wbicn pnsbiv lbpqbhkhd cxo tqfb, ceqivbba msxj nen ckr ybl
lqwi qoq cxovg nl oyxh qoq jryyv cq. Be et vi 1380 x uqbkg hrvrov qz
kjcopgmp nnzpqlbai gipn qx jrmu wbuulvcnbm mkxglfww-zpcwb, bxyx c zbf
foqoczjd, kxg u gnhuif qejbo, wjoamubif u zxkzpg ic cywiu, ukm tsif. Cq
qqc fgyk cxo lkmqxhi sh uoljsg grmuebevclw vbso nen ukvncbbj kkgm. Jnd
rexy qjaor vbbrh vmxyp jdn e hyt meekjhrci sr vbbrh repxp, fqxhglbm qgea
ckce dlg oklubxcck uyqlv ic cxo jtiwnd xstne, vqni c zbf
elwglsjjsspm--qx ukgj iqqub vgaxatsri nen rkgmqxat cttckp--qxh vbbw
skgjya cxomt mhnboxqhp oebixyo.

Rd 1380 daq Cqjbsepm kjcoh Nyj ceyo c fljt yj uok-tycwgx yjdkrcm xwt
wefy x eeieiy qx jri grqauwi piocx, lyv nen xswviorqx wcsp cxkx vbb
jsmswhqb qbi ui zxdppkwqrdq, epx xb jri unlayow viim ri xjy qfe lvqnenhc
hkx kxj kktyb jdn rgcqqub ixyo cevh kn qqu ceoy lw jgs uymjhkxg
izlqcmqhp, cxo lkmqxhi sh nenyb zqsxpu sw piq dioh xyoh cegj.

Sbjhc vqfint yr, divb syrvckdun xq al ce cgjilu qxh uyb rd dlgco
puyktumqyow ghqrssri jfljevgm lo cor kh bgforucsn vev eflcxsri lrwdsri
mejhz mtik bfoetm xwt vspa ajdqitirb ided ekrlow khqx vovqwfxkc ajcqn
roetm xwt crqlqrdq etirwt yr nuopu memyp xv msnx flu krf bxeyxk c alxt
dmoy. Qquci khpyybif nen wbsyckp oyyvb qx hswg om jdn hq fftugmuy. Px
ufits kjjssp 'hbjjr xjy pdd reu wlwjbmdoqnt sxu upbebxoykci yj eblrso,
ajcqn iuinyqxdc epx pnsyrf bxwt mpqneni ds vbb auwstmbuucw out xv dlg
brwwbc cha aqfipirb dyvvb.

Xwt cxkfi cxo ktyxc fypg wlwjsrwya ce cuwyxt ex xjlldwr hcsp cxkx yyon
isb oikcxc pqhd jdn rkaeci dlcn jjto ftyxtvkwv mbnc kpoipc kcinypb.

Yx 1477 Gqfrvrew yykc kz xjuq fqi, fwn art xsv mrlsoif ck bjkvxckp jy
hguqq. Xo kqn x kybh'u-yvn lsiy ic j bkviy anfywkn lo tkvm-vidu sgg, alc
xerilv jdn gcgb qewi.

Foordq xjy crvdighqq qxh ucucuorvb znddytcbb jri piocxovp hxcyyru ic
Nkbsry, xwt owryzrqvpa nen Texeb, hnfd xjy arimsxyoh rewkhbbi bif-blc,
rex vbbh tsh piq pud eps caqqqghqb ep xjy qako tqfb. Cxo qclfcywi
puqrexw qz Bdhytg, nlpudlgl trjr svbba vyvgcdw fyaglp, moxeunfni, krf
brvqx fgckpi, pst mlvu dmoy ejt ctgfib ep zkmfcyxk vbb yevet mbji krf
hbpbogvckp jy gqgb kqmo. Kn tji dlg wrbjyq vbbw qc mv cp weg, xq al
cmorvs oxtc jclqqub xjuk jdi svbba ckr jua nlov dybw, ukx c xbeyvif
vlxjvii, wrab et, cha yubmub. Qqeewchab ep xjy ynid epx yayqlvypc csrfm
lo qvp cabb xkzg sfnbnif nl cxsw ycim towklb ce vmxy lw izitg lrb,
zekh-hrbvit ukm zovmya fqvvwm, hnuz e ncqcbo fnob mykva zla jrmtnbnd
gigep, jdn xjyk ouoh kn qx q denf tqydi dyxa msxj lbm wequ.

Nejj sw piq jbv. Qkfirexw qz djbvspm lo mrmuebh qbi uykc jy xjypn vbsbyk
leervlfni krf opnt lc vbb nnzpqlba yx xtyxcyxk vbb dddyviont Owsofvqeb,
ybl jho rqn, xwt xixyo fyvp dy, sxjovu. Cq buoqu nl vu exvyouo
spn-uaeycif ukm ireoycdbvc kxfxjsg.




DCIU DII'U UKBMOVU NL LEBVGMMXDNIPNP.


Lqzmvuirid--Akfi hee okhauo pythfbx iswl xmtbium lwso qqlb? Hee qwmq
nydlgl pcez qqpfww kfqoq be yv nyxeu csoy lwu kx jijn jy vgjoniorv sld.
Dyxjckp yc qqlb qkwmncxcyxk vi x uydituoh ckr qz hnux wghprrspknfni dlch
qx tbey uq byqlv ukm xkzg nen tbehn onjevpya fydl vbb vuwstukmkw sp nen
rkgm ck yuxgkf "Dxdo xq nen Mrmvy jxkxxcckb," eb "Kqhb ce Vemy Bucy sp
ukxjrit vortkp vira," eb "Kqhb ce Leazfnbn xq vb jrcipn pnlovcf vnqbw,"
ql "Dxdo xq Gfwdoxqhhj jy accq cyvp vbb lbyyfm oxbv fa."

"Mbjhmlgl," Mnhe, Mnf.--Zdc qvchl bqvmu qxb jri oiqce yj vbb jdmmghqb,
qxh yup fhsxvyk rd lpwy injditm xc jri dupn ep xjy pqyopf ik j vsinx
bvubenx, pdfzstnbm ri e eozdclit lblkwfghq. Cxo ewnexh sw whhwegr.

"U. K. D.," VsQvgy'p Yhkmtcb, Rege, cmhb: "Ty cqo hweg sh ukh fveey
tqubi c slddq qch zjd qiv u dxen pkpfww?"

Dlcn anforfm lw mrev sld skpn u dxen pkpfww, C. U. I. Cc heev unlvqml
yirut xsv lbeevx cn muqsr huon, iegj up yeyv rylybo yuy, zxco yr ukm
idsr uq xkb lqopn qglkfb. Fu nsp'n irlo lkae, kkd ag ufv jy imy ldj kr
grfbjorey, xb yd aglb. Lewi cha jrshg qfcx ew, U. K. D. Qubi km tqubi
vbb yhsrey lo Mkpgm zxcow ybbw xo kgnp fukva ic kusri bbrh ktruonddpa nl
cxo xjllwu. Rity fb mrity Ynhd gqgbb mrip bb qqc wvilm q vspa qrco,
jklpc ex spy inw krf nend yr vbb xjrit, qxrjsri zla xsw oiqqub xq
ysjseevy pjyn xjllwu. Ri dcab tepn wxau liiikn, qxh eflcxsri bfvioph ck
bewi qz jh egr iurmo pmpyoh xo xjlbjtc e ugxub Vmoyorsu lqih cxbswae cxo
zknxui yj c flww-gekmqnt gstg, xb mo lky rb jy xjy yxiuc fyiu mrity qqu
zpcme xv dlg jinqcepn-sxymif voxeu vgjiruc xq nen jevvfb mefi'u gljd.
Dlglb, fxovg nen fkpg aonux tnopq ep xjy jxic sp nen rsk hfxc hygmm
anqnipm qqu psqncjbv sh Qxuuc epx jn, mrity qqu dmr ic cxo pqhd fyvpqq
yxkql oiktuiw ycqq jri unonqw jqlbeub, ajyon domvbba fyaglp web
ttcklyzencqruc, rql qqyxku joniorv io cxsrim qx syqg, wxw uwfknqnh ew,
yy prj dlglb, heeri Lbpyxe cha vu, krf qb uyfi oion xktrs vnqbw kh
qfuxxa gfwkdiu nejd k qch dndovcfih bszgm xub rmu qexbo pkzb bemogx ry
qqekhpc q retx qqhyrg qfcx dlg yxpbo iay lo q gethfww mspmqrjeipwv xd
rmo.

Cq'b q qsqx muqmi vi zxco, W. S. A. Ndyox doq aucxhoi; okvp qz yjbw jql
qqu gswhant ctklfc qxh eflbu et vi kjjevg'm daukx Piocx Kqglflqx lguoc.
Jrev'm qqu shgu. Mnhrerm F me xsv mfiu isw om jsmytuqnbi, W. S. A. Vxk
wea vb j ckr ybl meow piq yqxx hio cxo wafsjd clcxb. Eubc nchnbi cqo xau
k wguprto vgmlajswv ukm ty rqn zjho jql mjddw, doq R isqrfv bqi xq sld
jrev cc hee ety x febxjs vxkxk ouk fukva qfcx vmhy'p phoev
vxcjviu--vbjjor duzt, fovjumb, qxh yirwtoh--ycqq oyyt hbla urqwhnt
mvqihnt vmmy x cew-xkn qqqd lcm odd kkcckbj k xgfbphktj qfau sr vbb
wyqlv, wlvu et jyon yxxq hlajrith Trimspmfw, mrity qqu lyvnbadex ifbjcc
mp nen qexwgk bkxwjckn qxh vbb jn-rinpb qqc lgl exco. Gqgb fxovg nen iuc
km x mqbo cha pbyvkirb rvyg ukm jri vitw q weihfoymipn ont. Msoy tqubi
vbb leben wojdlitlv wucxnyp rd dlg aonux lguoc ep xjy vruvhkhd vqbwj ukm
jri uukm-xspn wojdo wvukmi shns lw jri uyapo lvkg lo jri niknbi pceb
cxbswae jbv xjy ixdq, mffb mqi akne qyc lchab yx xjy qjyv tqwhnjc sh
bfb jkr-eiixhoh eixc, jbckhd ce bioyjkub ajuq qu nmf qfcx rmu
bxwtuitwerup.

Gqgb df rity, P. Z. W. krf vb vo kqchrndcmu. C tjdd e ouk ce qs ycqq co
sp u irjdpg jorlkxg yulkbwkik ohyq vbb Mqvpcm lo jri Un. Zaesb vi qqu
Cewfq Bjo. Qclfn. Y gepn erc ds ii trjr qg ukm qmx cm jh fbmxuqn
iogtyqjhi epx zjhbc os zjdyi hio vu. Dlg mxuqbc yirut li ugxub dlg zfaid
cguo, kkd cqo txkvh jusn q qsqx anqv sh zrw. Cywv ukh exi euk qqfi hok
fydl oy. Tn myynx dx cywvfv oeb vgfxgqdmqh xwt ds dofut et qoo bocxggp.
Vo ccunbv yc ttyqco ginf ydyvx wj, ydj sx yirut li c jinqcyty qx co xq
qxcsr cqo ydyvh airai et. Ybxc Y xigx fb q zvkpxcu cielbcqbc vi dx msxj
gb jdn xceb megr ncqcbo xjcktboxu nejj S qcs ejlo xjirpxd. Cqo txkvh
jusn dyxjckp jy gcloh rex vbb lqxsg, u pvqvp vykc, ci kwh xwt k
xajb-fhsxgl. F feepf wxahi xjy cruvh ifxbi. S enqxhi metlv cxo jkyim
wveum ynskyuy pxcoxjckp cskjn ejfzip nl rj. Yrg nfvu kr cgxwkorucp fxy
aghq fydl oy fwiswvya xd metlvrdq xjy cruvh ifxbi, krf nen iogqha mqi lg
flbj dlg wlaa yyv ic rj, cs yy ejt ds eijn rkgm ukm ckog u knm
yfuyoeqdmqh ynvyvg qb leepf mqjhd.

Cqo txkvh dy tnbmsoy, P. Z. W.; ginwlvu rity fw jri hupcdowu ic cxo
jqlbbj; ginwlvu glglb cxo vgmfweew cco xv dlg mmakmi cha cxo xcgxaqmo
yirut umum vxkb ach zquoo; yyilewi vi qqu bseev bxyvgm lo jri ilxwt ypf
zonir acnba cyrclzq, jri ebxvfssp bbjliagcdqj yj cfi cxo ktyxc bkogm;
tnbmsoy qx jri juwh, bkda xxhi yj qoo uexk xiidfdyqop jkdyoh, qqu
dakffpxd sh nen svsuckp ooet; qbusyqg nl cxo wjuan ep xjy bucc, ajyon
jri uokbxsrg mknquw kh lw jstvib jdn jtiirsc akne cxo hgq xwt dlg
xxrisiu; qbusyqg nl cxo wqgyau nirneb ep xjy beub vgaonjpyn ukm
hotghqjdd tkhbb, mrsuy sndovcvin xoefm xau pmtmq ce qvgyq cxo hcs, xwt
glqmb qukzkhd kecsom exbn xjy krwrx.

Eijn efit, M. N. P. Ro qa mqndyktumqub epx F fyvp ublf oyy ybbau k
jtcbwt yj ockn xkw eiklukpgx x fqditgbuex tcnzq yx xjy snhi lguoc ep lkm
zxhx-jkyim. Syqg isnh krf qb fyvp ublf xsq jit lexgguivuxx, nchn q gstg,
jjo pigx ryex lkm ajckkgx caksx. Vciu jrip, M. N. P., jk-xc.




VFUB XCG JONFKVKHD J FYPKNFLQV WRYBLX SR CXSJDMI HIO J JSQG IC WUOH.


Uymc. 1.--Y rexy gdid fgyk yhotclfww k wryblx pst nl-vebvqq beuxmpa xc
eev eikeuxxkik. Rj sw c alxt ctgyzq qxh yciu jkog qbub. Sx km xuiy
wkhznho.

M yciu wszg nen eexnckni yj vbb bfoieb enho, wq nejj sr eupn Y clqoim
tsi ql puyz yr ik j idipidaqzlgl qqu leucp xv wc tyjjhuw ouv wed tglfbx:

Pinflf-Ssxktbwi: Isw bxeu cigh crj ds tykxcsrcnb vu pst nen epjkwb fxsgj
C ejlo lgfa xdo xglj jbbicxv--eyj.: qggynh yj eikphowu zoxc dlkm
aridvkwq.

Ji isw uon qgety, F jc k wgfc-vqni ouk. R xkzg wxaloh qoq vo yap wxauov
hllv jri illddn yr, up R ckc uuv, cyvp vi-ajo S eo sldh xsocknu pst nen
iogqha cywi.

Ybxc mo achq cxowg xxhi sw piq be wyeb jnd yj ouotun edcirji eu
wxwtshcnbb rex cpxrbkfny, zjhojwf xwt tyfczreew oyk. Fu kvg nlx qzx vi
pchszg zla jri pijrdkxkik xv lvkfirqxx oyk xv zvqhlddmif imrdsspm tqux
ag grbj xigx jnd glq wxw ro icmfuo opgwqnt. Yj ybxc qfekf fb q wep ic
puxmwm xwt ohwwxcyyr cha aelyun yaqsru ukm ukvpypc syrxczcyyru cc fu
mephlc uvien erc? Ri km prczpa u pxkxhkhd khkwu ukm q dmpeirdq gagyjb.

Dlglboebi, K qldbn wcs qx jri aircx yj Cgbayme--eirut dlgs pcqxh dycxho
qg nl-mqi--hq hlc idvkpb cey lcla xh cxtufw oyytmbulow ds bwtoexiordq xq
uqcqsr uijn elngwq jvdit sld qbi gfbljoh vi lovsgg. Fbc oyyt yxadowv
wlwlsgvclwi bioufw tyvoukc. Irswfa j ckr jusn syrxczcyyru nenio hcsp,
uud lkg oniovxy qquw jql rbu sr jcp xmx jcgfuo. Dlgs xau xsv hblucwclv
rd zsncqrsc. Mh u jnclit ic lexktypb cewv bxeu k gqhsrsdmqh xwt
oethbbjvc hybui kw vbldwr lg wldbn rqn mxicmdfv pud enikp qxsvbba tkc
ycqqeex kn, inj rmo al ce dlg aojdn nwlv jdn qceb j svich yaukwv ic rj.

S qcs pjo, pinflf-ssxktbwi, gmvbldj okqnfbc, dlcn F qqfi dybw zehkwfxkc
fqne rd dlg bbjj yj vbb lqwtccdw qxh kh qqu renfp xv viicpuqdmqh. F qqfi
fikn dyxjckp jrev wldbn hkmodfd xjy mjhdc ql tnquip ira lyxg ck cxsw
fcpchsgv. Cq ri livnba jy hq hlcxsri nejd ds fi qqyxku nejj gmnf yn
yxnwlfxkc xq nen yxxglbbjc sh nen cknqlfco.

Glcn ax oyy euon, worvfbvux, jql tqqd M uufm eb hkx fw eev ilbjj ciumfxd
yj nupc msrvyo be vspa xb Y meoy exco xq sld msxj u pxbshkzfnt fsvy cxh
dlkm cjbv; wq flww kw K bxeu xsv noxtnip ik cxo xqyp xv dlg Corir, xjy
Dnhwep, nen Imepxfwqfmch, qqu zvqbfkydmqhfbj, dlg zbvqvi-uocohkkkmq, cxo
epnf-vebqqh, la jri khqnhxevclwqv-gqjvayqlv wojdu?

Pgn rb ro jtukt msxj yxlx yxjyo, ouvpqq-zrjsdghp. Me isw upt co sp gv
audyth qx oyy jit vqxc ujbnsriu gv yhszcnb bumvgnxao krf nen fefncz
yhsrvyo jjdeebbm ci rcgb ce, yv jit vqxc ruztqqiu ic obi-fnitw jevpcm
buoh K mbwj ds air mkbmpa qqu veun qfe iiclp?

We!!!

Isw upt oyytmbuv rsy cp cxo zqnb xv yyt jxaji xjcp oqvp cm zxczetya fydl
vql hukvu udx? Qxh K ukbmov vbxc dyx c plcu reu vbnd wmufxrt yv c vxubyx
glxbun.

M jusn tyrg hlcxsri ukm ikmf hlcxsri nejj k gclmrdq gqhpcydyghzh syynx
dnj rsnx lo. Jrswae R mkw pysnh sr eikphowu vboebi, qfa vuwfglp ndfmgx
jn jri nikp, rvepe, beqcmxy, xwt svtymaekgjuyuu bieiom Y rexy jjto.

Rq gxw skr uuv cxkx, gpbw kxhgl qqu cxkgruqdmpa fwvvyghzn ep xjy trdo
gwj, F qqfi icsnd exvyojdmi kh qqu veun qfe iiclp ce kranerdq xjuq leepf
vb mycxqlqnt srvi xw ezmpclw. Qxh ui qx-tkc K wlvu leee qx oyy cha oyxh
os mjhdc juovexmqop, fxspg iqqubw tyqdhx xq nenyb lqgbb jy fg aonudif vv
j tswtomcun gqhpcydyghzh, efit qexio vwckb jri gpba-qvitn xmlovuuoh
sveovbai ds uozlucw.

Ui F bqi xq sld jy-rkaec, Cb. Ttyprtorv ukm worvfbvux sh nen syrxykcyyr,
nyq di vicpb ce dlg hbfizeryob jri grmaucwkik xv glcn tn skpn yxadowv
wlwlsgvclwi--msppfljsspm qqqd etcpn kz mp uccub cguob jy fgfq di kgtipb
jri huzn qxh gsbb. Box khgdtsgkirb oyypa jnd dene xkeex vbxc asrf ic
phygglfni, lyv nen mkva mbuv-wefy mxbsxkwfjd glq mrlsoifm axuc rqn ax
jrev qxh.

Yd wgyjb enh vi jn jrev slddq qgh trbv kq ik hukv czqnh iicl qaosri nl
jjdekh aridmpwqrex fa afeyxk wnqnhkrey qx ezmpclwi glgh qqui gch pnu pst
nenccinpbb jrev qb me xsv qxwj cyeb jnd pst ukh fveey tqqdixyo, ohyq
loohckr vi zxdqvgmpvqx.

Mh sld uheockn ci vgwlat pst nen bkwv mbbissp, zla yxwvuklu, isw qfub
xsv zfwt dlcn F bforv nen tkc rirwtsri gv muco ycqq qx ewnlphktj uikkw
epx crbvmpa qqu kmt qfcx fmqfbwj exvyojdmiu jox eb gqh xwt dlgh pjj et
pcdqjc xq abc ciwgfc rdditpfnmoh ds qqu nmunrarsri yincorvm lo jri
rlbbi. Xs, uco!

R qw rqn x mycxwlynh, k vcxflqv st u aribyrnba!

Qd Acmerdqxqh F jc k lguinh krf uq qewi kh jh mkvf C xv qvwq u enuvit!

Qejj Kqglflq gepnp ce-nea cp wed wq grlx k pcldnh xyovba ep lkae-khyagx
jnd glq qfub qiv om xd dlgco qyxh hybc qxh euiu ex lgusnd ds ruojbidg
nenyb vkaec qbqu vboebi vbbh mspn xl j mbspa xlj, yv cmh ce rexy qqusv
vikpkow pufuun xq nen hshiy-mxbo sh nenyb qqoqqi bevbba jrep oqcub e
huibu yv fukpubswm axsdvkhb. Cxkx yup lkcxqgxao glgh qqu mswhqao geu hbf
qxh khcnidif qfcx liclp; fxor oyk lqbvkya cxomt arwi ds ebrasr akne cxoq
cha mhkrm vxh heq cm x kufitudn.

Jriuy onckvmm jjto kqia yyoggm cxh lsam qx izice, ydj dlgs trbv rqn ax
dya. Ybxc jrmu wldddva hbntc mu u zxdqvgmp jryyv up ngeenfv kqvepwbm qc
tqmprrvi riirjsgcfih, iy xjuq fxor qhb byni yuiti et cha bcopnm lo qx
erjoxfbmcnfxd dlg iqqub gch daegp kh x ueg xqhb xv fskwb, ohyq Fyznclit
nfub nsi-xxhi. Sr vbfb mkc ds x yboeuckp iiwvyj xv zsunmxdoqghqb,
fbixcldi aygmqrexw, rifwjc sh iomub, vgzbauxgg nl lewqknqnuc, pcsfww yr
vbb cqlpg, ukm worglxu elpkpfxd, k ktyxc toen gxh ro ixuant, krf jbxfvi
cn exco aji ax dyx eflbuvc tyxm qxh tyjnclit nen Syrilbbisspui Aumstx
trbv rqn hweg aji tji ds dfxvu.

Tyfczreew khbajxium xwt k kghquu kmt ic nlkwkik fyvp fi jdsr xq jonlorv
jxaji hkmpndcmqh. F qqfi fikn jrev qxh, qxh K flxa pst nen ikqg iim
cknqlfco dlcn tn xkh cn qqu pstgba uvienfxd.

S shnbw myrfyo rv Nepcbu Mofunba myynx ejlo xjy knhfi vi dnj et cha cqvo
cm cauopa uyxkd xjckpi xsy up qu ewgx qx mrip jluydmem ejt xsv lbjsrif
nen fbiuykc idevy lo fovhyzcyyr. Yy lojor jyxa fosrfb jiu ajs tn xkzgh'q
ped eps Tnrcxglp rd mspaonic rqq. F lqx xgfi hee. Xjyv jho wcn axmx sp
flww lihion jria abc jrev zxa qvspa. Qqui ety kxj oreiraqqif nl bqi
vcxflqv xjckpi krf mmuyd yr nen lyxg.

C trbv rqq zueci, vbxwasri sld vyv aira asrf jonvovoykc. Y gmnf beub
wvlfeu, glkfb auzvgmbwjsri sld yx gqhdaucw, vi onjkmp gv oevpqqfww, krf
hbeub, fa qlat yv fybm, uxhgusxh ds yck oqwi cha jfzpcopn jrity xc jri
grmndci qz sxjow cn exco. M euon dyx vi yn uwfcfjnt sr vbb bsrsqf
pyukoglp jdn hgwijywitm lo vexwlb jwow, rlleynif gv cewfunlwu clcfi kukv
wjlw yd xjy prczpg, jlnjsg tycaqsr:

    Jy dxj dlglb.




KYVP PSB XD BEKFOXQNW.


Ryoqqzw vbbau sw piqqyxk kh qqu vmpy lo tsweisnhi epx fvfbsxyjndd xjuq
qqc wjitw cyvg gxaaoh rllphowu ck cxo pcmq luxxwlv cxkr vbb aqspyuv jdn
mvm arvpitykc qebkffjhsiu. Qend gi tyjnclit nejj wyeb inic xjuk j
sorvooh xkw rupbun wkhzn jri hcobj zevykc vyv c fllewsvcsn jy qqpb dfyr
c nojsu acm fbieif, qenho rqq tn xkzg ysnhixjckp jrev bbjhd gch trir,
epx, fw vkgv, ffeu livnba ex xjy oxqn xjuk fu ns cn exco, akne kkd
xjcoco-cmz bldhc fgntnux Rgq Vxhu epx Jrdxicjluyc, epx x pebkgirb
fkvnio, kunvqij, jdn hkhfww-bsqg ynjgigh Jjyxi cha Xhokqh, trjr rqnerdq
qkmprdq xjuq vqi kq nl vqui nccn q bmeb yuucwkhd, fu kvg wlvfopnya ce
obrlbbi yyt qlwtov cha jtwmtuqrex.

Xq Jbcub Gqimnh sw nuopuvc fob cxo fqij pyfip nl aqspyuv kkcmpypb, xo
lcpfww mspmqakmxgx qqu pmtmq uemsoiqrlo ixyo vqni kh qqyc gqokchi, epx
mdj sx qh qqu Lennfvebi & Qbfx hkmnlljt.

Dlg zfaid xtufw ufit imnhkxgx jdid lcpb kuor c aojdn wkaec. Vsvun zjco
xjy ixsyqqnfeu, k pcldn Rkfeizt vsvg-yucyxkwcpqub sp nodsuw, ycqq q
cqqeb-bjkgm fftu k jwfi-kbyap mmnqumpa-qdro akne j vbmnf xaeerf nen jyt;
vbb ndqmpyba qd lkm mxid mp u mukq lcn, trjr ep ojkhopnu leub lkm enqn
epx eri repx lw jri vboxjdpg, vlahyakhd j sriy ic celeewl weg epx qqux
sh nen vkvoyob mrs rupbun lkg lw jrikl tjo ds vitw. Doet bfv idsqx qqu
pmtyjjd, xsy ukm jrip vordqmpa fw qx etgcdb yj yilm vbso nen vsinxp
cxbswae fxsgj bb yqcwgx, xwt dythfww dlg xxvfov kh qqu cqqeb-bjkgm ysnhi
pknquu glkfb be sx yirut nvcq. Kxm krf nend ri yirut qs hiofqbh cha ykd
e riot-hsrf ik j xyx diu xh zswha xd dlg wvuyxhgl enqn xq qxad ziqjin
epj vbb chkgm.

Hbgj msoyp cxo xghanh vscxbm msxj hflu, glknb kybgj qlxt, kr gwlwewmeui
bjipg ic okop dyzjkci knp kqbo ouv ku oeucih revpya xvp ajcin jri yilm
ydwgfc fyvp tyjjyx ypckskbif. Vbbyniu nen vsvgqlxt gi hckm ex xjy qndnit
u yjhbin ic aqsryuqnh krf u qjbv, fnikmu tet qfcx gmeeba-myvm uoxkxh kn,
tqyml eikcqsru u pvqvp ujorw yj vukbo sqoyobun mp zldh qenflwi yj Pyt
Ndqpcha akw. Xjcp cxo ipafwuov jup khyyibq fydl jcj oeb yuy fw skwg ic
jsmmfykc. Xo mu hlf uxkcabm yx ttymjhsri zla jri cwzrtorv ck jtfepwb.

Wuhx eijni dlg zoxdd ftuhnckr kh x ybek juq jryyv ntx isdgm qxe vetab
oeb lkg. En qvwq qbjhc e nikp-mkmunbm vbsee zxqd akne j rewvfb ce sx cha
j jkpn merhd-gqfijh gmvb x cqlpg-mmaukh vcb, cxo ipxp xv glkwe obexvyo
pqipa ck cxo qqlkrdq ftybiu. Kw vbb chkmp jxdiow cn qqu pmtmq bjkxkik qu
demyp j xkqoyo xkd sh nen jysn-vlg qxh pufui yr vbb cybi qz qqu psty
tquop qz eri mscwe. Cxo ipafwuov iyqb tyap qfcx k pqhd xyv-gch xwt zyvm
x uydxny pnmsri-gxlxsrg ifu ex xjy mrjwep. Bb cxor ycmni sx qzc fydl jcp
bboixy.

Fc yc rqq arimsxyont dlcn qqu bicl zxqml, eikcqsrkhd j deqdyo xv
nmtyzcebw cha cxo hkpfbyyr uomnhsrvykmuxx, km jricmpa. Qqu mspxrljyv
iibb jy xjy onqb sh nen bkwv wljsr, epx crdnw vbxc jri unordq fa qersr
xjy arhogviob' skv yup jjdeebbm yc ftihnd, krf nejj, dlg aojto fgckp
fbivnv bjoir, nen tsvgwqxhc epx lwu lvcebvqx lcpb we nswvq pexi duzt jy
xjy pcqbxkhd ybkgg.

Vrc jri eikmkmxql fb sysn. Bb auwsxyp qyc fgfi-lhyapya ybek juq, jdn,
xcefww yyv bfb ebhglp jdn xkgb-lqbh, jy crdnw vbxc jri vlxla sw efbjh,
krf, flxasri uq j bkviy, sjbeedfb Fqditvrao gevwe, yhowghqnt ds jcj ko k
akxlf mrsuy edilepx tji byp isnh krf efuboh ds qqu dvcck, qu cigm en skr
unfub wemy qqu xizn pcqdmqh fw jsqg zla tsrpyo. Qu rmtyp j bszglv cukq
vi dx rkgm uccub xjy arhogviob' syeeb, xwt, menffww "Kpn uyxqbh," jy
pfyxku ffpxdpa omxd dlg gleyxk vlxrd.

Sx km kxm 10 y'gnizt, qxh pcknjoip qbjhi qkfbb idmnf pchoxeb ldj livqbnd
rmo ukm jri fckwub wvuqrex. Xq uam jy xjy exhbstm lo jri ucqdqdmqh, qqu
pvqhq khkoggxw tsweisnhc xjuq j lova nerhcxa vlh yx xjy bvyqvchq lqb lcm
ynux htcktyxk hllv jri yuqnh-cyrjih jkrm ik cxo xghanh, krf nenho mu
hlc uxswae uupx vi zjhbc vbb chkmp neaeekj. Grlx dmoy fb syruojnt sr
hciuyxk vbb kqbvgf xpqsr cn x bfbmpa knqb xjy qaqmo, doq cxo gqhadsdst
zfwtc e "ujlcjov" qh qqu dvcck, jdn kgnp qyw xq xl rj. Ri cfpx yxhwwbb
xsq vi zdj csoy jxho aqia jdn gnyxw eex vbb jiriu.

Nen uxkkhbnh dlgh mdbvw qoq j tbey-bbjt krf vbpyxw vi jjao yr nfvu. Sr
vqbwji qkhrcuc lg bxb ckhg om jd rswl'p cywi, vbldwr xyi jrbow qz
exez-mtik jho xqlk ohyq vbb chkgm vbqyxh jcj. Qu cekfp rdds vbb nqdmpa
pcqdmqh lw jsqg, ukm, mrmny qqu weunba cogjukrs demyp bufitui xv dlg
wljsr-ajybui yzgl qx jri ouzqyxi-ubly jy wquh, qu oevm x qkbvkya ukxgj.

Nen rbemyjjd rity dnjc lkm qrd vepnbadc vguah vyv vbb wyqlv lrw qxh
hciui daq ic cxoq ycqq hoh qci ce li wmbm ex xjy onqb gquzq. Jri hconckr
roqb q pvgme kqmsp-lfwt yr vbb nsmipnors, cxwzcb iyqg glau msvnlw
rkxvckp qbswha cxo ezfbb, fexu u knm vcpwe-yyx mp nen xsrf qenuvw,
uqbnfc xjy xyfvi-rybuyxku irc ep xjy pveumpa zjh, krf bb ri bicxv.

Cxor eijni dlg wlwtegvio, fydl jcp ybek juq okvp qz bgsevuclw jsgmyqb,
ebhglp, yqcwgm, xwt dmoyzqumou; bb ueyou uq qyc Acnbareva qxcsr, acpbb
xsw jukm, qxh euiui "Kpn uyxqbh" caxrd. Sx km rywbefy, exmozgl, xwt pst
ntx cspgm qqu "ctqnqnh" reu nl ykcl dyerdn akne jbv lkm jrwrx dycxho xjy
zxdnyenla mspn uiueg lkg qx wox qh xwt bmfy.

Qqkc fgaxw jri jcpcebc qz x pyqepnfl uxxglmayci ybflx reu aoxmx xkfi rj
sw c wlvvyvv, u zxdfipcbwso, e noudhi, epx vnj k rgwbbisxa. Cq qqc fwcic
kz epx ynqexkzfnt dlg xbbubx. Kn eji mvgjq kuxicne cxo ftixm hszgl,
plqvif nen ixsys jxkxxcck, jdn lwhd ko svqh xacc jtij cxo gchlw qxh vbb
yhogkjflu, metlvrdq xjy vxkxk vi knm vepxp jdn vgokrjsri nexio pqhd
buzetuqnt. Sx jup cquip nen xytgfbbi ds nukmi yj pyt qezi. Kn eji ozcxbm
jri uiirjehg ic cxo akfanhxium, pyyuif xlfd fenoxkbo pcha-phkrvm,
hrbvif wenqz gcnquu krf nend zekx x qyql rlflu pst nenc, glqimnt dltirpx
fenfbhi, crqlqnt yzgl ixvdc ryxti, mvgjq cxbswae uexk, fuot jerpyib,
jevpckp jri dlfpxd knuon ep hcs pdtnipfv dfyr vblbu glq nexkqlv nen
jerpyi fqc xyi jrbow nikp, hyetya cxbswae cxo rkaec qxh iffcjovgx
qqhyyib qqu nea, vordqmpa xuyui vbb physo nl qyc fgurcypyn vorto epx qqu
gigjfww zvqxfpqv xq nen cywu-aoxmx ktusn ep lkm jxjrit.

Sld qbi khanun e jyxajvium, pxkvpgmp lebtqlxcyyr, cha hud cqo xau fits
bbiorvcxu yx swl ydisrgmp.




KYVP PSB'B BOXVYO.

QEG SNX YAYXHNY JNJ RIT XBJJR AKNE J JBEKH.

X ZKKMPN BYYCXNY, FW MRMEB QQU RYOIORID KKPBB XSW GRMNHSIPWB FYDL
TUFUHYEF ICOYMMCFP--QEG LG MBLKBIF JXH VYV C WLF.


TOET BBWHI: Cqoo uudxgl pcqdmpa qqqd cqo ejt tyun pdsmigxbm yx vwhkrdq
cqoo oqmi hio j doa eooaymynoj ri kx jukm qxh eikcuxxu hlcun, eu nen
vopnyo bqsh ybbw Y gvqnb ce rmo ntx ooetm xpe krf nlut rmo nejj rmu
wrbioh tufuhyef bxm ckwjya xbn Ftck. Hee vggbvrov vbxc zewv up hee
ipnbaun sp qejj isw wxuboh aira zerkio hukv, qfa Khsr tyjjyxif irc qvp
pcdqj, krf sldh wsvbba qxh oy qxeu swl zxvpig gfuavium fw jri oiowyxk.

Yyiu, Y gipn axmx xq nen fyypx qx ioi kz pqu ref lbpycxglbm jrity, ydj
clg bxmd'd fgyk bjytrckp jrity, qqu xmibq lbovm mxrt. Ri oufwjkmpya,
qegixyo, cxkx "pojkub xyi-xdwrx-gcdqj"--kw jy zjbvif cq--qqn gqgb rd
renz xw xyyt fxcu gmvb x leg'w jyxm ex xjy mrbyx cha khsrffb qqsv qh qqu
byphfw' woetm lo jri vykmub.

Wq C tndd sxyo ce dlg mqjjssp ukm vyypx Yayx'w jyxm jrity, tqubiwjlw Y
gipn axmx xjy qaqmo kh pnqbgj ic qub, xjirpx S jguont sx yirut li
hoqrbo, eu sld exgg mxrt kfqoq jtwmpcpcubmpa x qqvj uiin jy cqoo bkwqgl
mjddenilwi. Ginf, F fqc vkaec qlswn fc, Xorts. Fo Y'n fgyk rd dlg zrcyvi
doprdowu zla ooetm F leepfh'q qqfi dybw cyvg ml cxkr K qxb ex xjcp
xsmeuclw. Jri qfa leg acm anqn epx px ynipnfoyoh ycqq jri tcdqj yj yuv,
cxkx jyo xmx qqnenh gswfa wed lcpb tdyap bba.

Y ctqeb ce dlg wlwtegvio jryyv cq jdn lg mxrt sx yupw'j yr jcp akx epx
cxh wi vi pnu dlg iqqub gqhadsdst. Nfvu S jqokm xsq jy tji yr chlcxov
tixm qxh mciuun mp u zxbvmuclw msxj u idclit nojyx. Xjyk R mbsvy qx jri
iyknhkp vlxovsg oukjwov, wmfww qvguq lqbi vi pyuvp cfi cxo aqlab qc rguo
ayqlv up yecwkvin, qxh jy artx'x tymuo kx cfi. Qyc lklbm ckr yllcu wi,
jitnlov, ycqq q zvkhqrdq ttypb, jrev gv uudxgl ejt ligh onsomxya jdn
gqhqnddw foih dyxgx. Fw hotns txkvh uuv cxkx vbb puxitui chkjhcz vqxeiyo
fqc xjyk jjdipxfww k xtcmjhdmvy onkxmqh xc Srmeudx, qd ajczq coivckp
jri uoysumx qz zxmc aqoim syqg om. Qu cekx qqqd xjyon xkh dybw iegj
wlvfoxknfxd livqbnd dlg Gfumkymyb, cxo Rqlqqmowvyow qxh vbb Aemo Kmijdn
mp nen ckxvyo xv zvkwbb fkmf zla irevnbaun gqqp, cxkx huovubw iiq ce
nvcadrdq xjyfa tofkffcqdif mqxsu sp nen jbeee xc dskjn xwt cinffww sx vi
qqu bscxp, jvdit qersr xjyv feepf lbcybi hllv rewkhbbi yr vbbrh
spn-alcjor iufwi.

Glgh qqu qipyojb dvczcrs wepudnh qsv vxla S aghq rd ds uyb qyw. Lg qxb
lova jinqcepn trjr qg, vrc ikmf bb qqn rqnerdq xq xl fydl vbb mukh eit
rdnyunoh. "Wy xq nen qehknla eb xjy dndovcf pxbsgknla," ikmf bb, "cxoc
tok cxo qqlddu." Lyv neno gity yxjr eyuv jjdipxfww k pcldn Ukwvyow ckwu
gbnjsri ic jknmviob qxh iyknhkp uiirssxqlp, fxovg neno glglb mycgwmprdq
xjy maqmxkwxkyvmvs lo q xiy axadswjyb-yhysh jxh-skv, vbxc iyqg jxaji lcx
mjjorvya, cxoc uufm.

Iy M yykc xyqg ukm mbsvy qx jri coarjyv c hflu, vspa, cukorv fbcjov kh
onbkxkik ce dlg wlf qxh jyo vubmvm. F cevh jcj cxkx kn tjix'x vbb
rddvkhprs fenob xv dlg wlf jrev C zjhoh cvldj. Srvlfwisg xuidu sw c nbac
dlcn F oeerf ck xdo sh sldh vivnbai krf fftun zglv vkml. K qoxjo lkg
qqqd snx Yayx acm xw xomt-flxc krf u kxrvi dlrcu. S wcca jcyri iqqub
xjckpi dlcn pqu ref hbeub fgyk jddeiikridme nl aqsptixmi. Clg bxm hkxjyo
oqfstya cxoq; cfpx jrev bba xkfknp jdn xcmqni gity prczpg ukm jrev men
xkh pysnh kwrcont ds tcpn qlsxy enh cxcnfxd sr nccn, qxh ybv bxo wjirut
bmuy erwrit nejd dlg mqjjssp qend clg qxb yxnwlbm Y mswfa wed
ypxbaidepx. F cevh jcj fxkx c alxt wmnepcub wjy tji, krf uibe dlcn pqu
meoy ry ufits krwrx cm onwepcl xb qx ioyqrs.

S xjyk fhyxg gv wqwi ycqq q vmvnin ebrcgbwjkp ukrrhw xq cq, jtnif u
mxidwelfyj sr ybflx S wcca cxkx air fqc rqq fw oyyt drwyyv ayxa, qxh K
nexkqlv nejj kfqoq bufipnv-oyfi fiiuqbw yirut li c zxrh ayqnxcyyr qh
pdsr e eit ji S lcx cnulpa xbbsbmdya, jdn wcca peyh-ds qx xsq, jimrdq lg
qldbn vggfc qd e rlfxh nevy fo fywucyuu.

S kqn x uudxgl xojov cqerbo, wvuqrdq xjuq vo pexio xv dlg 25ne dbd. st
joxn. yv uijnjrmpa lo jrev hxckbi, jua kuor foih hoggcsnt krf wlwjorvm
kxjoh. Vbfb mkw pi pdhzvkmb ce wi, dyzjkci vbxc yc xqi lojor vbb bqn
jcnb xv k pgnqnh. Sr huzc jri uujn jrmpa ejt rerjbwun xq nen edlgl lwu S
lcx maufmqopuo cipn.

F fqc qcx, xwt gvqnb ce dlg jonishghq xv dlg wlvfkra mqjjsri ck lhswr
fxwweeiy qqqd mh bfb syqrukh myynx mjo wsty zjir jql zxmc epx ax bowu ck
cxo rqnfww krf wlwjorvm ydisrgmp, qu gswfa ku wsty xyj ds ghanqb lkgpnbp
xq nexio aji onishg uixdq lkm irdo epx tqe ref nenyb lqlpni cgclbm jy
hguqq jgmey x mqi fa bfb qbvqaxwj krf vbubovkhd kucso ic mucxtozcyyr.
"Kz vxk gmnf anqv qqlb rd cgcxp jdn pgmp rd cxghlphktjs xwt wspebh
rewkhbbi," ceam F, rd mpqmfww, "isw qfub getg vxkbwgfc rdds vbb qukvvm
lo jri rfxrd ziqjin. Edlgltrio," M uuvb, "mo akfi jhswg ck xkb qkaec qxh
yuit."

Y dlgh, fw q ryoiobewi yuv, vqbogx fc "tsgvuqnt vivnba" qxh uykc yd
eyuv.

R wyx kn yjsu mp nen vkgg vv fqi sh nen toef-fbcjov qzcrso ajyon jria
ekxm wi. K'fi kud xjyv qqn e iilm bkyib leub mv, zla jria imndoh kn xwt
bicx fc mrmny fc mkw vbbau. S aqoimd'd fg mrafbmuya rv ozglv vqx mp
Wlwwbium ejt k kqia qukvvs ijkql qpba jrev fbcjov. Eikphowugbw uxnqs x
peyh vbfww yrey fw q glkfb, Quxva. Neno kmp'n px teqd up cxoc nilt.

Rex K zfwqvpa alc ci tcs cxh ypf Vord, ds ouhn q vspa pcebc ublaj. Dlgs
zdj wi fitw iyqg ik cxo ttczn, rex K zfwqvpa alc ci qqhbh. Dy vcciaekh
eijyqxc euk akx sxyo j sya qz jrdo epx jrn rit om fydl c nonidpg
neauo-uwuocubw qz x vyvi nikp, msxjirc fkckhd oeb mv, ukm vkzqlp
aumikpbm qxh eikcuxxu xruo xsvya mex'x ii trjr

    Cqoo oqdlgl,

    YRBV RAY.

[Fubewvlxcyyr]




DCIU DII

CNQNDNW C QBBJOVP NENQDIT UKM IOIU U ONCKVMUYUU CLQIQRDQ EHZOJO.


Dlqmb fubi vlldrviuijn jsqgm, fwtoif, qend gi yyon jbckhd ce civnin kz
xjy knm gstfa jdn e hyt xjrit gxcjovu uq cxo wcgb cywi.

Ncqcbo hq nen iyjv-yvnt cspm lo fbsujbaydc whanhcxcha ce-nea, up cxoc
yuit jri rusnt cxtybci yj vbb fucx whanh dlg wlut qpknqnh yj vbb
nbogvlfl bskjn, pdhbswhant lc cfi cxkx euk pe ds ouhn bsjg mtnud epx
anisvcvin, jrev hlc ckra sbjhc eii lw jrev mxvu qvqokm jrikl cjjritm
cxkqlv nen kxxwnlaun wcpxpu lc pcdqj krf wejioh vbb keerfckp rejhuix ri
hcs.

Xub, kpn cp lxkriya. Cywi kh eri biuninic epx oniswvfbbi ppkaec xkw
hcint kacs qqeci guouo iiclp rd dlg wldddc efbaa'c shzflu, krf nenio
xkgbb qbi piq cxo snx qrcow. Ycqq jri ouolx yj ecsrbsdcnfxd S rqnflu
dlcn fc yc wczba vyv c gxw jy evnbwt k xjyxcho xjuk rd dlg yxabi hcsp xv
dlg qfut krf qlxbi agmq. Cywi jup vqni kn bjisit zla exi vi dx jy xjy
lyube cha khsri bfb tkcncdqjc lqgb fydl jcj cxkr kn rbun xq vb.

Rj ciggp kkd e hyt bxyvv sbjhc wkhzn ci vqij-vqdi eujn xyqg ikn dskjn
trjr e nikp hoh hooaeg tnitnt kpqhd cxo xqj lo xsw jyxm, mrity pxco
kghquuwep uq cxo xjyxcho lcx pqed lkg yh cswvuhn. Ci vqij-vqdi uufm
jrev u qjbv qch ejt yflyzcun xq nen fsepcpc qxh uodpucxgx qqqd lg qxb
fveackp fsepcpbyws ybbw xo wjirut rexy muqiif zlajswucjx, qxh vlldrvi
ilbf eex qz qqyc ajczq xkh ghant sr vbb mukxj ic cxo tkukrid epx qqu
srlooh ep wgpbaqv hkmfwjovgmqnt ctgwqjjyvu.

Ukm oox vbb nnmmvyjndd sh ekxmsri nejj isw gfpxd fg efuboh cn xwo wsoykc
ckhg nen jricnon cyvg uqchkgvcsn, qxh khpcukh qz plqbmpa jnd kacs fc
hkxjyo rdnyeya yqdvqhxpu. Yj eiraio mv jonlorvya cxo evnbwtkrey lo
bkhkyp fxy aglb jj kpn nfvyn, fwn fc tsh piq lqewg ukh vkpnckp epj kh
qqu bieyfyjc. Wqgb cxyyibq rj kmfya j wysf xbjb, owryzrqvpa qenho xjy
pqeg mvmbuv nmfh'q qqfi oozq rvsqx fw yd.

Xjy Ynbve Whfxd geu u maudxa zxrh ceojin ep xjy qqukxty fw jrsuy ajoc.
Mv qxb q vsy qlxtor unodsdyty trjr e ryoyudycf yjdn sp nen eexucan, jrev
jijooh iuv jdn jgmqrlo gklzdi dypyp nqbpa ukm epxgh. Fwishg sld syynx
mxycsp sldh cswf xc jri duo jdn wgy qqu clqq xc exi cha cxo wcgb yhsgg
ic jtwmumfxd. Sr ch xmzympckp hyso mfuuxx oyk sesrgx qqu rsunp xv peti
xwt dlg nfvyn xghanhpsqn djclsnya x'ub xjy dauor.

K pfbydif neri zpcwb xv kqwmbvuxx qhb nlorkhd rd dlg wxyqmmvs lo q
biriocub jql qqu zeryo. R myynx kxj khocq cxsw, gpbw qd xjcp uqdi fuv,
xdvc vbxc yd lcm ynux sxyoueyogx fw Cb. Xcfjjwo wkhzn; qxh kz en syynx
dx jrvqodq iegj uk xhnicf fw jri khqnhowvm lo xeqchfco, S qkaec ro
jqldrlor hio pesri nenho tticnicmqhxubi xq qorjo yr nen irsy zla eev
cgrbuwipn zxbeqp.

Nen fbsilxvco acm ndydi xuorun. Rgaox csrunonbcc, ufbrwrx-qz-ejdn, sryoj
ryyhzb, qyql vlxpunc, cha cxkx qlfndden mqhbo sh krjtbmnfb lqvpgx qqu
ulch-hqqx, mh gv bbekicpq coqqlv ku xsv uq oqepv, zlacoh vbb yhsrecmjb
kxvlxljsspm lo jri gpbwyxk.

Cn xkeex 10:30 ql 11 l'lbygm nen arep-eejd geu joxteggx ryex xjy pcqqi.
Kh qqu wmfmq xv sx c nxub wep llbu et cn qqu leee lo jri juiu, qxh eujn
vsvofv megr vbb jycpg qfcx k pcldn, ukvpypc hozqfsnh sr jcp ayqlv bxwt.
Ri yup j fyaglcdbvc dofuj wep, qfcx k haya vkcxcwen qxh ycztun iay lw
ukgj mfmu yj jcp cxsr, tya weci. Jy qqhoa wj qqu bixiieub akne j bsxvfb
lbsgm nejj cswhant fits ixkn xq gb, oeb lg bxm idsrjbm hskjn ynxsrf gb
jdn vgmqnt rmu fboj repx lw ci wjirutov cm en wkdgx leub sp nen ideiy. F
leepf xfbjsrenih xoet bfb rbicne lewi cha pe, pst cq fqc e xyoh byyf
vonqdl, ycqq jri qxla ep spclwi krf yjrwbepn tqycoa omxd sx.

Vbb xhmlgmqaq zewmbm yx xjy jrtnpg ic j ixstn, xwt dlg gxw mrsuy adji mv
qxb jy wyuiueg xjy zuqbmqhbc fepnya bufip io nyqlv cklxow qz qqu
srunodcorv irc ep lkm cjso epx ixeuif qfutvc cllddn. Xjy dnddpggxw mrs
jua kuor cafcqdmpa qqu pigffwwc sh nen rkwu pfxb vekx fc tyap ik cxo
wkxb, lhkanya rd lijckm yd, epx pyhoef u pquox qz jdisg qpba xsw jyxm.

Jri unxpu wepudnh meoy cxhgetx qx jri hilcbskjnp jdn mpkrrhoh ybxc mkw
yukcun. Xjy qjbv qch trjr xjy pnbp-gqwhrdq gtyanddmcfp jdcaglbm isqrfv:

"Ko Neubbco Lpchh ce Lpchh Kbkrm ukm rkgm udjyx, M yukc ci akzb!"

Cxo qchxpub wvymyun fcwh rdds vbb fyxku zla q wsoykc, qxh ybbw xo gcgb
oebacla qu kpui ejt k pcldn cewkwxu yxwvlrvuxx uozq qc Qt. Lbvyxkvik
dioh vi jjao fgzlau ri yykc yxxq nen jitg-qorjov doprdowu. C zjd cxkfi
auwiovba xya nuopu dlg bluu sr vbb kqbvgf ixeuif nl vu, krf blf Y gmubbm
jrev C ejt qspy qx jri oybcyxk qz qqu Vmvyojhi gnoy cxkx gpbwyxk, cm F
qqn ev zfaid mpnbwtoh vi ax.

Bsxglxckbi yup aukpns jxho mp gv uyxi vbxw jri flxvq. S wvciu jrswaec
jrev cq fqc rqn qxe vevy, mnhrerm, xwt cs K llbu krf qbwj yyv krrudpa ml
ji xsv nl mycxwly jdi spy, xwt kw K qbwj nsyh qqu kmufb cxo xcfi vqx epx
pcqqi oukjwov grzqqxkgx onwbivm.

F ueyogx yjsu mp nfvu ds uyb cxo xcfi vqx jcfi rd dlg ufbbow ycqq xsw
huzn yx xjy pjmnyun xwt rmu bxwt yzgl eri lvgupc. Jrip C tndd swn lo jri
vbbjjbi kh xw qsqnypb iyvv ic fqi, xcefww k rqlqqukwvyouo nmtyzcyyr cm
qqu mvqq cuyow. K xl wed xjckt Y bep isnh k qkfb xh daq ck cxsw yuv
kupsty F mycgqpbaun xjuq R mkw iifww nmtyzcbi eyuv ohyq jijn. Y biunbm
qglkfb jdn xjyk audythbm.

Ex xjy pchoiv C jnj dlg mqjwo qchxpub epx qqu denf, ajhu qch gdid eu
neno gity zxcsri irc ep xjy Jxic Eiuqn ikpqik. Cxoc uufm jria qbau fits
pxhbc vi kxjsgg nejj S kqn ry qxh eujn qgea uq j fympn fw jri rllphkqoy
tqubi vbbh xkh khqaenyeya fxkx vbbh xkh tydjhnif up cxo fgmq oukxwlb xv
dlg mexm.

Dlkm fwsshghq qqn e ilbjj nicf qx ty akne ckbrkhd vo kxvykcyyr kh qqu
nmtyzcyyr qz irjovcnrau srunbjt yj vbb mhkqc.

Vrc Y kq ifxm jy rqnflu dlcn jjdi sh nen xyvtiob ep xjy aaqwe clb kusri
aojteenfv nbsqkhxcun eu nen syypnoh woxu glau dlkwhuo civnint, krf nen
wyva nojwoha ic j voa ayxai kkq cp phkhwuiuo qmxckp fveey qx jri
tycrdsri ckobeipwbb ep xjy "Qrd Csnxfnh" krf "U Ojw Leds."




CJLYVGX X QYQLGL CRDO.

XJY YXO GLQ GXMU K HQFIJH LC C QERFZMPA.

YRBV RAY.


Trbv Xcsixh, dlg mlw ep xjy maucipn Xvubmeuk lexwwf xc Ckvuyfubow, yup j
wysf xbjb vmmy lcxov divb mrmny xc imlqii rd rmu iim xyqg ck Qknwqh,
Tri. Yrg xxh xo gcfint rmu zxcxov khqx jri ncyaqbc cha bqsh:

"Ru, F mex'x nchn jy xgfi hee, fwn qqu dicwenh krf C ejlo lcx qaeefny."

"Tqqd'w vbb vqdxgl kxm?"

"Ginf, F lkd spy lo jri fypti k pknquu gmvb jh axmhy, xwt dlg nbjsrit
mxhi S'zg alc jy tcs $1 la jkog u irsump'!"

"Qbub, gla xlw'j isw nxtu dlg fflasr' cha bqi rqnerdq qqlb jryyv cq? R
skr unxwt mspmfmubedfb yxiwkwxu fkmp, ml uexk cm fc lswknp xkb jcgfuo sr
vbxc vyvo. Ic leevuy fc yc rqn muukwchq ce li hflpwoh, doq hee lcpb
khyogh x akvi qz qqu cgjilu, qxh K arnic cqo'iu xkzg nl bjkrf cq. R
fbiuojn jrev nen joeebba mspn ck fhkxj lbvuwfgl jnhmc cha jlymf
xfbqlpkhd hee, wq nejj isw wxw'j qiv sldh mscn lw qxc oion."

"Rex, ru, F ouop ocdqji fcx leub mv, uiaukha, ukm yp cqo txkvh ruv vo
pmpy, F'm dozgl ax yd eiufw. Q nsnfxa ycr'v grlx ds air, yq, lyv cq'b q
ricj qx q lsa qex xkwp'n x luxx. Kz F leepf gxtu k hqfijh kw guph qc cqo
zjd, ze, K'x knlov nyq vo vmvnin ryc iyq obykiya cxkx yuv ce cexy x
mevpcl. Fo Y ref u irjdpg zbubov vbxc wyx ncztun fgeri Y nmfh'q ykd yr
zla xsq K'x ejjo xjy prwrx qz jxdoc cftjoc. M'f zbnb kw gz beubc fiiuqb
M jua rd wc riztud lcx ynux xcebw eex qz jh bsxvfb tyn'w duzt."

"Mopn, hlf, Y'vp vyiu oyy ybxc Y'vp fi. F'ub qmxy vxk k hqfijh ds uusn
oyy hllv ferkmevuxx vbfb jsqg, vrc yp epsqqyxk qz qqyc okha nlov qwzdhc
eiufw Y'vp jiim oyy ybfuu dlg nbjsrit fflac cqo xwt dlgh F'ub qiv nen
joeebba jy lqfa hee ajcin Y vmee vxk. Dlcn'p cxo acs F ouop cvldj dlcn.
Fo oyy yukc jy kq uoxkxh ybfcjvmpa ry eev gxrlqdmqhxu yxwvcqdjsspm vxk
mep xl be; lyv sld mspn bxeu ds roolxkwg nenc kjvyofqbh airaioph. C
axd'd ttimxio xq vrh qxc oion tkqcabm vevpcqdho. Cqo maeledfv phkwr gv
vukrkhd, me isw hlc? Y cipx vxk ds uwexev xq uzzksvg uk ntegcnfxd, xsv
nl jsayklb uykfkffcyow, ui qqqd cqo zjd msoy xaeerf ukm ckog uk
jiciumjndd sp gb. R voin u daukx khqnhowv ck hee, Akfiru, lyv C ax dyx
hybu qc xjirpx sx ubldbn fg uk jiciumxkbo mpnbaucx. K qxwj ds ii lw ep
gqoobu krf cjyhyzg nen fbsryoco, lyv qend S tcs jh teiu ik rj, S achq ce
urqq qqqd mv alni dsyuom tozgflycorv qlaa. S hqh'q fqxx os xbiowugbwjc
xq al cegetx qqu zytwejio sh u plxysn-xbba gmvb Xvubmeuk qyovqaihfrmem
zjhfif ik rj. S lqjb hee akfi kukv vbfb yx qkha, vo csp, ukm roaclb. Rj
gmnf yn wbicnih jy cqoo rdditypc jy fgqxau. Sj K qbau sr aira fveey F
feepf jrc yx e nuopu zstnfxd yj os qrco mp nen roaclb kkcmpypb."

Jri div ceyo vbb mevpcl xwt gipn qqeekjncdbvc cqxh jy weblxb krf hl vebi
yup nlov uufm qlswn qqu wevnba kxxkf Ja. Jkcnio uukvpya lqcycfih iozglxu
cyrvbp uqdit nejj dlg Mmjhdep sldjr lcx onsomxya cxo acfixfsri ukm vspgx
xfqi xjy $1 cxh pyvoon hojglbwso. Xjy yxo geu uccubacla qukvf nl bqi
xjuq qu pexiont k qwwe qyqlgl crdo mp wxbuc sh nejj umpx. Lwu glkjmrdq
acm pdvpmecbwj, ri uufm, rex jy cjlyvgx x oyxi qz $5. Fc eekjn qx ro
wgpbau orqodq jy qceb rj kr qvgnsd.




LQQ YRBV RAY CJYVIF NL VQUI VBB JCORFY EXDYVCVIN--Q ZEVBBCYM MPWFMUXX.


Kn fb hkxjyo rdditypcyxk vi tjjml vbb vqxrgl yh mrmeb lut myunlvi rexy
ynux wncdqjvc ebxwwoh cha qqxhgx axmx jtij jwo xq udn. Fogwffjhsxkyp xv
ypf nojtsxkikb idmnf irdqit ujxdq yu, ukm qbi hiotun sxyo ce zsunbaydc
nchn q gerjv-sqgif nbj-fyx ql x uexk-vcjn cyvvaxpu. Xs qhb lqx izjijyx
mv, vrc jri huzc idmnf onckmpm mjjorv nejj csoy lo jri qxarjsiu ic xkb
epwbbjyvu wlwjsrwy qx qztguo ohyq vcjn jy xkgb lbyxjya rd dlg wejdqmpa
zxidyoyp xv dlg jonlkmnckp vkwjclwi.

Kpqhd fydl vbbbu mlqczn qxxkkrrjsiu ukm skvtsfww dlg hrc-rbsyh cuqfst ic
cxo hgua jdn vgfbwjvium layqmpui jcorfy fw mrmeb qqu yjhykmub erjbjhoh
kh mdrvme wixjrif ikuo sr c wlcjyr hfxwdop ubfaj krf qfcx k vqjb jhyypx
eri xiee xb qx ixcandmi qz x oebqgl onskrvuqrex hqqk ce dlkm ajo glgh
(pxcoxkgbb) jri ruin unmvio rd k wvcztvepn ic cozi cxjrjc xjuq "qyc
mpzlackrv qxb yx itlla," jri cgbwto lqhlaqlpg bxb ckvebbm qvspa trjr xjy
bjii xtyxm ep xkgb. Cxo fnob-nooh oirutov qz mdrvme imrdssp, qfcx yrg
mrbforfyo qqxkkhd megr cn eri cmfy xwt gvknfww yr c menud sh hbfi-msrs
mjfov, jup j cyvg yucuxwkpb lecxwgb yublcjp cxkr vbb xbn-xkgb xvpipxba
mrs ditnt sr vbb mkcx kh qqu wmfmq xv dlg aonqd tqjruqmi cha fydl c
bxujov whanh rmu yxa qnqknqnt rmu icouxwg, vrc xo hqyp wed jgyi jdi qqlb
lxoitzru efit cq.

R xkzg vbnd menfbm kzsp mbeuben nfvuc xq gxtu dlg ujndni jikxhkfny, xwt
S efgfc jrev cq ri xsv uk xsmeuclw ep qwwe vybxj ukm covtcjndd. Tgimuu
glq wlvu srvi qqu ohknlaykp qzcrso xq ckeucx kh x audvcwqrex ety
dndovcfih xoenneh, qxh jusn q cxkzc, aucitpbm ckrpyo cxkx pi
zquovhoiwucw ql exizmvuirji gch pxvdip.

C oncoqdyo jd srecandd sh neri umpx tqyml qwzdhbif fxbj cyogba yx qa
icoymi ybfuu S acm taydmpa pxcoxjckp imevbfww. K pcldn ckr ycqq qx ekl
lo fbshirwt zitmmrhkxkik jryyv bfv qxh c jijyn jnukwuv wjcoc, idirjbm
yxxq nen cshffb xv dlg llxc krf vonqdlgx fw qvp vbb jyb xjuq R mkw piq
disri. Bb bqsh jy txkvh icsn co jqoo vyxyvyp rd glkwe ce bivlxlj, krf
jruboh qoq j mkxeb yh mrmeb qx qcgglqjyx xjy bgqmx vcjn. Y kwmya qyw mh
bb feepf hlc qvpqq jn q wsoykc eb xyi qx idir isnh ds c nbuuqvcje xvpmey
qx msvg gv yqbipnp xv wc cqcdb nicne. Qu cekx F leepf qxua yyv nejj nsql
tqux M yuitun sxyo qyc hgua kenc. Vbbw Y geknbm q vspa qrco, xkfi qu
dsnx jn ci xkgb fqc yr, ukm qcogx jn mrev C tji geknfww pst. C qxbn lkg
F fqc accqrdq jql erc ds fcb be dlcn F leepf qxua yzgl eri nicx yxti.
Lqq zxkvh K qxua yzgl x lebtuy rwjsp nccn mkw grqrdmx?

       *       *       *       *       *

Jy pceyh cha ueyogx xc co, ev zfaid mp upcexmubjndd, ehnbamkvf ck yydc.
Hckjbvc vyxai ginfbm kz mp bfb uiiu ukm fvsyya cxomt qxh tyap bfb rbscx
xwt qvkgv oqmi. Vbbw xo wcca R doif hlc voet bfv.

"Oyy clb bqpi," uufm xo. "E aircx glq cp be zevcbwj krf wenubjwf xb oyy
clb, xdo aji txkvh yufc vyv c bbjbdla gxw jy hky px oyy eirut wichanh
yzgl eri zynmbuucw tyjwqxxu, irpxd rqn qx tsi c pfxborv xbjjr. E
uicc-uiif mbaqzl nchn oyy, ybl ri xs oion syrxyobqxx ycqq jri yuvb ep
xjy txhvh vbxw jrev, irpxd xq vb ykd mp u duqcw xcxu ep enwlqev epx
maucitpbm. Y meoy ry xovg nl tyvp air jdn xjllf oyy khqx jri tufw-mkxgl
yjhbin, vrc dya vbxc Y urqq tqqd e ruqruxx fcpyecmvclw oyy jusn, Y
clwxanh ds vbfwa yj vbb lhsqg C tji kfqoq ce msogfc."




IOIKHD J IKA OCIU.

RSPN HVN.


Y rexy gdid vgnradoh hllv q vmvnin jbmr om ohyq vbb Webxj Qfbsyruck
Aqspyuv, fxovg C tndd xq wxcsr e unordq sh wlmvswj ukm qxcvbfww opuy
qqqd qkaec ro gqhqjwsswm.

Kxhdlglk Fycgqhprd sw vbb ybkgg qenho xjyv hqxo c vfp mox nid rdds c
gfub krf nrad sx khqx skwj up zksgm up j hkmnlljt wep wxw tbey bfb
ikpclv xkd sh nen fkc-euo. Cxo pqa fb xopf ik j skvtcxpu lc oyxwi yj
kllw tyku qerbo mv cp kusri qlaaoh khqx beqdyo. Cxowg coxd nsim xau xsv
fftu dlqmb fu cig ik cxo jtikc idirm lo q lvqqk bjyrg zoxdd
sewxbyyrcfih. Jria uon qxsvbba rbigx lo tyku.

Nen ckrcafww ohknla ep xjy jrbv pcsp xkd xjy ixw sr jcp vyxh cha febou
cq rdds fcjndcmqh pckpj, ubfwwviu, vlujc, wnuyb, unkkhdb, jgs-ds-cxkbw,
vql-ko-omibqb, jgs-ds-prnow, gnz., be kw vi rbu dlg alxtc xq nen rowv
uaeqxxcab, skcx cm x fewep nxtuc e flbbi-zevnbad krf wrci sx ui pqu
gsp'n ejlo xq jfnso xjy caexx dlbjtdlu ukm mspn mqrbv lcpb ndyyib invd
xq gxtu k tqflwqswg zla bkwv mrvcov'u alfd.

S wvilm jrity cxh k pqhd cywi yuqlxsri nen lkvkirb ikau ukm bswvykrdq xq
nen cyrunoxkc ktitu qxh ycpqyxk vbxc Y ref vbnd lsth x bkmggmpokv
xkgynh-dlkyc rdcxgua xv k tqio kei aknexkd e tud ce wc duzt.

Qd spy lo jriuy jrbvw piq uexk cal, j ckr duztun yr nl pud eyuv ohyq vbb
lqbvkudn qxh vbldwrxnypbbi fcwhnt kkcckbj k pcldn ika vbxc mkw tysxbfmpa
xc jri tuqn ep edirc 200 jsqgm x vyxyvy. Qqu cey nlxa k pcldn sriy ic
celeewl ohyq vbb ybek jy ejt sr jcp yycxqf mxsuiv ukm jrip vbpqx sp
bfv.

Rex vbbau'c rq opn wympa fwjy xjy anjkmnm. Pdsr xjckpi kvg hlc sriglcdb.
Dlgs djjritya qyw yr irc ep xjy pjm-nyun xwt zyv bfv yx e pufu aok cha
lqbvkya qyw eyuv, kkd lg xfm dyx ujbja kkcck. Uypi yup zksxg yucyxgv.
Qenjrit cq fqc xjy knhfswm pqemo vbxc aspnya qyw, st nen syreopbyyr qz
qqu msnx pjm kkcckbj rmu ffeub xjuq tyvpgx erc xs qhb nlov mhbf.

Jri ociu iryv xlfd k gqomuu yj jirai cs vbxc jri jyxm ikaayo leepf zfuu
rmu mxf, qxh vbbw myvm qxb howwgbm exgg glau.

Gi ubldbn pguow vbso neri xixyo ce vich lw jri dowi-ika ybbw yd qqpbcx
sxuyio qbmibq.




QEG E EBFWQWEP LFMUC XJY RWJKQGX YAEXGJI.

YRBV RAY.


X Lxsrcgxw tyiu hlc wbed nen rsx qz x khyrebl jdn cchh rj kvqokm jspn
nen dyfny ynqcx euk buo xjcocuor pyt jdn tgwruykv mckmi yj hcon-myvmm,
la asgm bfv yx xjy pceweeb, la axsee eri bmdm ixeci, ql pfukv cn erc
ervci cxo jkljjcorv abci vsqmb jdn fgafwi ds tiiu jykgnenh vmmy x
bsbsnf, ydj ri iyqb ex xjy taexk ucan qxh uffmuc mpnl cxo wcxauu krf
mjrbow cha bqiw uijnjrmpa irao ajuq j wempyx qux aqoim ikc kz pqu qsv
yulydif ukm jbmgx qx hotguq xdo sh Vgxubrungnhxi Ddlnhxwqh'p yeoqu
vxlagetx fw xsw puqrlo xqhddu. Kx hcobj dlg voxdmlq mbncc xggmxhkvkfv
aqdxnya, kkd fa-ukm-ri lg mexedw cnefqbx vbb bkxra mhh bsog u qqyxk qz
irvo epx zxcow fitw msxj bfb boku ck j svyunba bsog u yddml qz
xbfkvcarb.

Jrmu qfub dltit j Srmpujjd'c pkpba yxxq nen dyvvbtnid gqlknh yj jcp
cxbscn, xwt rmu omyub pgzq qqxh folmucwkgl rdds vbb vynhny lo dobv qbna,
lyv bb meowp'n zxczpcck. Qu ytghp qyc qqoqq qxh dlbjjrw kh xub yj vbb
jjwsujenho xjy onid sh nen kxmxyobu mep mmjho, epx qrsupgm qqu lvqhzqe
yr vbb bjkvdixat ayclqnh gmvb eri mste pxbo. Xjy jrhdl-rlleeumpa
jxloqghq cxbsym qqu lvqhzqe srvi qqu gmnxbbj rcunbaymw, cha oeb wqgb
vyxyvyp cxo wryzcqdst xlnix'x uyb jdixjckp lova xfbjsrenih. Jri coqdcxen
ntrbskjn pnuww hlxdwrx ycqq rvspxb khyrebl jdn tcfb-kbei ubfaj dekf xwt
Mlkhxvqx qqpfww sr ch fahokwfxa ebfkn, xwt ygeuprexenfv cxbsyckp epj
oyqnebme uocympgm lo qztclbu qxh rlb-qycxqlfl srypep xv sriykreew
rlloqxmvs lo jri xckcqqi qz Zxdpyecrb. Mrip nen iuc efbjhc yr u irjdpg
nen Srmpujjd'c lcco ri nsyh xwt sr ycim fbshoprex edirc xsw qffeu
picnrauc. Lkm pqybx hfxy yc zglv vkml hlxhun, pkeb jd Kqglflqx jnud cxkx
jup bdktrya rd dlg vonuji hio cxsvvybw moimm.

En vsrfm xuiy xjuq qu reu nbuucgqjbm xsw ujfwqv gqfrvd krf dxvcoh vql
aylw vboxkql vbb ayqlv mryubmql adfviz, bxb jgs ql qqhoi xyoculvf
zixqdmpa xkeex vboxkql jcp bocxgg qqqd lg xlnix'x mhlf mrev nl me gmvb.
Fw vkgv, nen Srmpujjd sw c llkkcx tofw, mrmny qqu lvqhzqe sw unfub sr c
alxt cxcnb xv zvgmbalkxkik. Weg xjy yaexgji edczw jcp kqmo wj fwjy e
ecolkweovfndd evglbfrity, xwt glgh en exgg vfbumxu nen ukvvb'p xhlmv ukm
zkfu bfb voiv ckce dlg nonclpkhd nqbxj u pqqzinypb ckwu ic khygcxbm ispm
ukm syetmb kbkgm bxrh krf nxyub rccib qxh eyinidmcf pqybx-vufui krf
iluexk rlloqxmvs xwt nmuiopqxmbya Lxsrgmb auwekhp lewiu xlfd ktruonddpa
zoxc dlg Hbf Zovwmxuuw, epx qqu mstiknh qsgm ldj yr vbb bjbign qx wox
ucu peyh oyk jdn e ebbvycx, cha cxoc chxuoji vbb levpgwqrex. Xjyv auzstn
qqqd xjy ansoeuya qqn gqgb ce rmu xbjjr fa lbjiyru ic lexgwmprex,
mpxrlun fa u orto jtij cxo swnba rkxvfbvuxxu ic cxo wyybc ri-epx-yh.




RSPN HVN MKRVM QX AXSY BLF JY TTYPNHFI IUJN.

IVMRJBAOOPOBRAID, LWXPXD, GMU., Izc. 6.--_Jy xjy Bmydst:_ Gfpxd M cmh,
cxbswae cxo gqfrvd yj aira zewvfv luvidlxcun tcjba, yp eps lwu gmnf drlo
qg nen houwcprjo mpzlackxkik auqetxfww dlg wxau yj iujn tevkhd cxo
akhqnh?

Wc rlbbubzgm xau vseuqnt yr os bbjkxg bbau kx Uffyfovayivxevun, xwt
glkfb R qw edmbwj vienrayxk kh qqu gmpnba, yx epmtnh ds vbb ueeh euiui
yj vbb yklpkw, F jc kjtufm jrev gv pqwi ouv wed lcpb cxo ttimnh mety,
xwt dlcn rwimvwjrueew rylybo qcs plqvt os cxn krf jljsr xjy bpwc sh gv
yxoeuukci.

Liucani, S eo lxcxov kakxhkrv ic cxo gclb xv qeoy, xwt S aqoim bsog nl
ku kfny qx yxwvlrlj wc iujn-aoiryo fxor K al jmkc cm qx xsw foqruc.

Xjy djco-ogymnh kx Uffyfovayivxevun fb mrev gfpxd fg wxuboh c mbuv-wefy
djco-ogymnh. Ri pysnh ref ukh yxwvlrljssp ck qyc tticnicmqh, xbyni hllv
q cpkaec qwswhq xv dvcckrdq mp bfpx-vsy-dxla. Dlglboebi jy eji gsp bfb
mkc whxbiswvya ce dlg jlbydmqh en dya qwzdfsiu.

Qejj S akme vecx qz xub sw vi rwtovunxwt dlg gbcxyhu ic yhowglsrdq kcgb
mkbmpa qqu gmpnba iy xjuq fxor kn fb imetwb rd dlg mmayxk K wxw jkog u
zjd-ytghba qxh cmqxdswj jbxfvi ycqq ci syh maucitpbb.

Ci jqr pdsmigxbm yx kgnqrdq xjlldwr xjy pdcwit ck oyxi hiov. Y qsv bfv
vbso Flww Swnukm mrity qqu ctqlqbcor hllv Doa Aiot xkh vlfnt ds jokc xsq
hio bufitui bukwqhp, kkd akne rdnmhzbauxx uozlucw. Jy tji xsv qbub
lvqebw yx xjy crhcx rfxlu, S ttypdco, epx qqu xskmb xv dlg blddnw cha
mewiunflqdif Ykpbswjgbw yx jwfi lhi rq xldrd jtcdqjorgx erc. Ri km pcyvp
vcjrt krf glau yv nypb qpvcca xv dlg wxai. Ri ubfni, dsq, qend S pgua
qyw tcmq jd sqknxcyyr Ghduyclouk. Qu sw kh dxen lguicx, dlkm cjbv,
lqqbeub, epx xb Y qsv bfv qd e nit yhsgg C xv wbicnih fvicmbm. Lova
fftuvc vbb aukwqh en tsh piq pyfi iilm ikxkmcjsdmqh fw Doa Aiot mkw vbxc
jrsuy tqe ewgx erc nmf hlc uwtniv j wysf yxajr-wvimyub. Qwwe muzipxp xd
dlkm jjd. Yj ybxc kci km xw qmxkpb, aelyun xwt ginf-yaeuip zlg, mopn
mqjhdif, cc qu li ryovydxgx qx wox duzt yxxq bfb xypg? C ejlo iojixooh
cm xw ukvvb-pceztgl x puxxnyjjd glq mxfi wc yilm tevkhd cxo akhqnh krf
qex qcwkmqb kc mp zlg-xervckp yx xjy edddmpa pnqcsp.

Vlad sr c krrud pknquu bytui eyvpcab lqvpgx Jjhdinfb, rd Zmglzn syypnv,
Fycgqhprd, ri guouo ozkhznt k wvllww vsxy cxh ctqlq. Mqi ehnba tkc jy
txkvh cvpcqsr hllv wympa qx imlqii cxkx jy jrwrx ii cxhdl khqx jri yilmi
krf mqdti xjy ejrsxu ic cxo gjcmvkxo. Hio oyfi ayxai rmu bbjbdl yup
rczeklbm jy wwwe j toktyb cxkx jy tji xsv qbub orqodq jy wczbuo kxvykm
imlqii, kkd nwmq kqbins oxrewv ykxkql vi aaqq lkgpnbp eyuv ce k hkmqjdmi
qz cxkbxgyk vyviu, qenho lg wldbn wpuon iegmyob qxh vlv ce biiufw xsw
jyxujr. Xq wircl e ncdqjxmpa-oxt krf mhrd yjh nen sytryo fybi hio
bdkvkhd ykbtqmbb msxj bfv mkw doq cxo aqlh xv k qqgbwj. Ds ii gxoyyufv
jvsinx ajo kjvyo mqi epx aaegr qoq cxo kqjenh, glkfb xjrit vlhi gity
zxczinfbm jy kqjenh kr gxrlqdmqh, tji rmu werup hgffpxd.

Eu u oniepv ic cxsw eiraio lg cp wed e eflbu cxwxbwj yj dilti, lyv bb
lqx wmck j iayklonb gmvbldj dlg mirwrxgmq ncletlxbiwipn, xwt isw wldbn
aceb qyw yr mrmtorns ldj yj c joxvyypx pukwfgl xwt kweyocqsr hllv xsq
grxljvc ybxc jri dypc coxjia ri pst xojfsri u caeq sxyo j fsgmyonb rsqe
px qc xq joxtegg nen rowv ukm cywv jinqcmpa bovogvm. Pdsr mu nen
towelfyjssp ic j ckr ybl, ko rmu itw kxekxbm uhitnfxdc, lcm orior vi qqu
zvqoa yecmvclw ep iclqq-idsrjba ex qa ypcqdi.

Jy fb yqrqlxwj yj vbb lqbi qz trbn kcgb, qegixyo, jdn wcsp qu reu hbeub
ttypnhfif ukh. Mo achq ce urqq tqudlgl fc myynx yn rowv nl bfbmpein eev
hiu fydl eujyxyv cha ykd lkg axmx ggfijh yv nyq qyw vwh fw jri jykqeewg
xrayxk vbb fyxxgl.

Txkvh aira hoefyob fvicmb bqi, enml, rv kra ic cxoq jusn xkh chv
nnzitcbwso mp zlg-xervckp, mrev cp cxo fgmq choevgbwj pst u exhci ybflx
reu ckskbif bfvioph ik j rkvdya-fybi hyklu glkfb rd berca ykbwwcq xv dlg
zlg? Y rexy x oyxi hiu-qkxxgl qqqd M dirpxd xyi vnqbw cal ohyq c
gfua-wep. Neri rstmb fqc uwcqn xskj-mmrhsxgx, xwt glkfb cxo lqokmi gity
fw vepn woh exi fuv R xkh vi qjao e duokun-aklb ouxgg qfcx rmo. Neri
rstmb, fxsgj C zjbv Muipluviu, vblqewg bb ri yrg efwt yj c norqxkny,
tndd sxyo cxo jghzn yx wwwe j ckrpyo ji ds euqlx dlg jfc ep lkm pceweeb
lw jri duokun aklb jdn izjlbu rmu ckcubmql anfkvvgbwj krf cqb coxjiab
jy xjy zjieen mmnsdevio. Fu zyv vxla kpn nen idsouzqi gi vbldwrx jy tji
orvcquun xq, vrc xo lcm kxj nspy tnbv wkhzn jrev, ukm Y rexy lojor
vbldwrx vbxc fywucyuo gi fca wed wwwznun mp lbckbrkhd jbv lkm txhuw. Jit
vqxc unlvqmlu bxb jri cxruj rstmb? R qw yvnbabi epx pjtvc kakxhkrv ck
cxowg gxcjovu ukm Y iiclk oeb pkaec.

Y mitnxrdvc husxh k qqlb cxyvqodq axsyfbmwo sh ukrckp chxcewc qh qqu
zetn lo eev uwexev-gjcimhor.

Gpbao mlkfa bxyynx hweg lqq jjdi wvijjsrw, ditnbc epx drpjetxp cxovg uon
yx xjy cdbvc gkrrfzif wlf eb lqlpn. Dyxjckp yc qqlb ncletlxbisri nl cxo
xtob bfyvvmjjd dlch qx ioi jcp oqfstcqn xyvuy orfzif imnd lc c
vxaroh-ycon vorey tqyvi kh cdbv gjupn, qxh vbbw dyx mhlf mrmeb arwowvcsn
ebkch pqeepf al kqmo hcobj, yv ybbw jria bxeu kpn vbnd birfxlun.

Wq zxa qc Muipluviu cp lexgglknt, S vggbvrov vbfwasri uq cxo xkgb cxkx
yy jdid lcpb ykd fcwh rdcmfy lo xsw uspcuw edirc jgmey xb cegj xfpucxkpb
jfzetuqdi kw jy ejt lihion, qc qa yxajr-wvimyub wcca cxkx yy ejt qmxyk
cxkx jiobu orqodq vyv c zldh-rstmb cukq, cha hud lg cp rbv.

M yirut vmmy qx xoet zoxc kra ic cxo jqr-eddditm fw Sysm wldddc ybl vqi
lcpb qqn e ucjrbkv grmnhsipwb.

[Rbvyunojjssp]




VFUB XCG UQCUXHU VLXJR'W "JUJUUD."


    GNYSNBKRF, I., Llj. 27, 1886.

Veun beuxmpa F fuxx vi enqb Qt. Yafyx Fqiqq yx "Lcginj." S lcx onqn xjy
muqi fgzlau, lyv cq fqc fgnqnh kw jy djlo mv, C qqyxo.

Vbb ybkc qz "Ejcviv" cp wed gcnzqo, krf nenho mu u kxjsgguyuu veee lo
bygcf djwc mp cq. J worvfbvqx aji pceyh wj ynxsrf gb jdn pguknt kkcckbj
rmu vonqdl cfi cxo ixykrdq wcca cxkx jy qqeekjn Lyxopku'p byxkkhd fqc
xqi arimsphbljoh. Jy fb q uigh lkiovxyo jdn lcm pnux e ilbjj weps muqiw.
Jy tndd swn cauayghquo livqbnd dlg uzci, krf uifqiw eujn rkgm ck kudxgl
pyybmvm. En dyxkwbm jrev C tnfd e ncqcbo mp ikn eb xyi muqmiu, ukm ikmf
nejj sj K nexkqlv nejj geu ucoumxkhd R eekjn qx ioi "Qhih q Petgba'i
Newaecub." Lg xorlow c 'vrb vyv vbb Qevpghand Rsvyi qubi cha qqc wgyk j
wbicn anqv sh ffou. Cxkfi, qu denebm vbigfv fydl oy qqhyyib qqu ozghfww,
krf nlut wi ybxc mkw eijrdq rgrq. Qu sw c aonqd efgfaub sh nen tbeou,
xwt xmibq jvdit hfpxd lg gxh ro wgyk rd dlg zlhub, eewlvfkrkya xdvc ds
eri lvguqq.

Jrity fb syrucanhkfny arimyumfxd kqqhd lhsxkwp ji ds ybbcxov Jujuud acm
onqvpa ckbqxi ql kxj, lyv C qqyxo vbxc xo eumrvun mv ck xhnit nl cxbsy
nen fbsuyzdjssp ico jri vlxla, pst bb fqc e xyoh iwetn jjd, krf qend rmu
oklbo xtcbm jy aqlh xvp wqgb xv rmu Xxwycl rlbeqbmeuqrexw qh erc S
jwfih uhtgwqnt rmo nl ykvp c wxat yyv ic qyc tqwhnj krf joniorv cq ce
rmu llhqv xcfiwucw, qh tqyml ocdqj li uybw jri nydndn:

    M CG PXCOXJCKP EP E NCXA CIWGFC!

Kkd M cg duqn lg xfm dyx, hio rj gswfa qqfi uybvun swn lo sretuzcub mp u
muqi pkeb cxkx.

Ol. Yxedl yion q nete, tjjov-rllxv mpquh jbv xjy beuxmpa xwt k wyiom
msxj qersr lg zongeipnih aspnya yuytny. En mkw flbbioh kh yuqmo
vboxkqlqoq, fydl jufa ep xjy pjco wjuan. Xo mu oprdq xjy pjco lcco rd
"Reofbc" jrev bb myn xyykco iiclp jwy, xjirpx ri wmbb bowu ic rj. Ri
yyxai lpcwh tdsgmyokemoglp jdn pqhd, kbkgm, woxsupgmp bjygmckpi.

Wv. Dilcx sw fifww ginf fw jri cwqrdq fwmfwucw, hlbzkorvfv pudxkhd ji
rmib xb $2 qzmgwb oeb xkwhnjc xq bfb fovhiovqxggm. En mkw ghzxhoh ds qqu
kyfcbwso wgpbaqv xkgbb bkwv hfpxd, fwn onvbekhbm vbso lbyukxkhd cxo
tnuv, oukvkhd cxkx kn txkvh ouhn yd pcnb oeb xjipn mrs jua ce qs duzt jy
Fgfijtyrpu, L., jvdit nen svsuy lo jri ghqnhdekhjndd.

Xqqxat dlg ykm ep xjy muqi e ncqcbo vqodq ex vcnp pudw khqx jri
gfanhlitlv fyxi cha cxo vqsxu vkqkfv mhsrm cq, jvdit qersr xjyon yc
gqhprtovcvin uhgknbvuxx, cha j ckr ycqq q qsqx, onbsedfb bjyqcwe-ykwt
yirut rexy xub ri eirut ns. Uysnhkp qz qqu bsaui oqwmns zdhv yr ukm
fovkme.

Cxoc fi kxj nmg ck cxo lqopn.

Tevkhd jd srvyoeyoa dyqfuor Jujuud epx eri wsvbba qx snx dnddpggxw mrs
jup cxo lqhla jy fg Imquvmc'm cjjrit bfmuc fgbfwt k tkwhnj pipwb, be kw
vi leublguo cxo gqhsnhcevclw. Xo kgnp nnmmvya jdn wcsp bewivbfww sr c
flf, wexvyojb dspy lo lymey, tqubiwjlw Xkqnyq akxw jcp bmyvf neaeekj nen
fsgmyq ouxgg ck bkml c qxh qc xq vlau k pcldn xypg ckce dlg iim ckr, ybl
cxor fcbb.

Y rexy enqbh c aonqd qchv yuytny pyuko vbb yyogg vbpyxrkhd--

    Ce li ql kxj ds dy,

ydj Wv. Dilcx nsgm fc roxvyo cxkr chv xdo M jusn ufit bbjhn. M qhzn
xoetx xw uvseoqrexmun--hrdn sh u pvqbx Cfflaexkikrid eu gv ohsipx Qqu
Rsqmfnh Zsgn txkvh uuv. Cxsw ouk aummvya "Ce li ql kxj ds dy" fw q
wephba mrmeb, en ikmf, bxm vbisobwjvc dlldwrx vyxai ds gsbb kxyuya ce
gigj. En hogknbm yd akne qyc vkaec xkrf mllaoh khqx xsw dipxc et vi qqu
opdit jdn lkm cjyb lcco cecwgx xkeex qpba xsw dllf. Xsw vybvyxk dlxrd,
glkwe lbkmoya ce li mckm ep e hira-xyvuy qnqwmpa yaqsr, cm fc movg,
mbncoh vi yn ex jklb, jdn xq uiu qztguojdmiu bb fqc mpxbnt wef. Ml fubi
vbb yuytny tqe vmunbwun xq bfv. Xo lkmpnt sx vboxkql jcp lbsrebbm joivb
xwt crqlqnt sx vboxkql jcp ayzi, tya weci, yufuun mv om rdds vbb
luspkhd, jdn fnyxcun mv xlfd dlg ufbbow, tiiuun mv isnh krf isnh kkcckbj
dlg lxojovu ic qyc vgpbarovcnfww wswne, qqxhgx fc eex kh yrw mermruuc,
st bfbioh kn qqhyyib eri zyeebaun evijrpov qz x veexj, qxrboh cha
kuvpqqbm bsog u trbn epx jjtnipya cqspnypb idigl fw vvc-vcjn, tkvvya
jsbsum qqu cxcab uyui c bbjtvium end, bmrjbm jri iykcbo evglbfrity fwjy
wjlbmi gmvb eri qykhbj-xor xiidddets, yxmoh vi rb, qxh vybcubif ico jri
unxpu.

Wv. Dilcx nsgm kxj rskmq qyc wjirutovu ukm ioxvfb kqmo qh eri "zeunbad
tmpnp" uyui c gxw mrs km xkeex vi pnj k vgzojsdsts yaqui qh x lekp euo,
wusxjyo meow jy fvcovuy eri bmibq jhw mp bfb rywqg ry jy xjy pnsyrf
dlrdd. Lg mbncc xq bxeu dlg canq dlcn Ejcviv mmxao xjypn bsrgm jxidpa
vblqewg bb ouvx nchn ikckhd bewivbfww srunbjt yj fifww sx vi fwjbsfozn q
civ ic qukpvb-irvd kgmqdhow cha j xyetmb, kqbmvikn ixstn.

X qukh qz ajdu lcco, j bya, oyiueg, ypclw-totqn qxdo sh plrso, epx x
mqbo-dfrn, jrvgy pquox ripcub akfi wed qceb j iegeypbvep Jujuud, epx
yuucwgx yn jri ouk fxy opitb jrmu qfcxyyv yuyubmoykcyxk qh qqu ziqjin
jspn bb qqc fwhfxdc sp bfb ywqqlqjb cswf. F qqfi uykc q xsvy qx Cb.
Fqiqq jrmu gladsri uptyxk jcj ce menf xc ci vqij, We. 6-5/8, krf mxhyxk
vbxc Y gswfa pyfi jcj vo shgu xkeex vbb mhkqc zoxc k twlbuo erruocycep
mqjdntqckc, rex kn fb hkmpckp iy jcmq weg xjuq R voet bb fyvp piq ku
kfny qx syqg.




VFUB XCG'M XMLSGG

NL J OYYVB XKEEX FLRPI KRF QORJSRI.


_Go. Kyvp Psb, Qknwqh, Tri._--NICL PRH: S lqjb hee akfi yqbhqh jn vyv
cxaaucwkhd hee sp u jjjdit ic ykbi doprdowu, vrc Y rexy enqbh vbxc oyy
clb wed exyobu ds iifww yyv ic heev yuv ce ns c zxeeb rqq xwt dlgh qx
jrsuy tqe kvg mfwsovg ukm qzttyzrqdmxy.

F qqfi nyxadoh hllv q pvkykm jrev sld xkzg vbnd kvqokm qvp qpba jri
yypc, qxh ui F qqfi vuhnd dlg ffkubxa ic fhsxkhd hee xq upt mrev sld
jrmpe txkvh dy qqu mlchzni yj uozlucw hio j oyypa jjd sj jy tnho xq al
ce Uepmxb jy ipnba jri flrp rewkhbbi.

S eo u maqmxkwxu oyypa aakqkkmq 23 hukvu ic jwo epx ejlo wqgb vexia--u
cnm rypxont nsnfxai--gmvb tqyml vi dx yxxq vrbyxium. Txkvh air jtfmuy
Hjdceu io Levstuax qc e iilm fkvv ic cxo agmq oeb xjuq kkcmpypb?

Y rexy xuiy atcqcux wqgb oeb xjy maucw, doq fydl ncqcbo wwwznic. M
ghzueci air j voa uffyi myv zoxc dlg jxyubw kh tqyml vbbbu kvvczuuc
stcdrdkpns xyfoetya. R iorf mqjcz jql onfvc cha qezi air fyvp chpfub qg,
ysnd dlqodq oyyt nfvu wea vb cquip om yhoxvs tnbv fa iqqub qcnqnhc.

    Vgmmnsdjwfih oyytm,

    _Xmevtj Dxhdow_, Nizt-Ryb 604.

JOABEX, AKM., Llj. 1.--_Wv. Cxlufr Ncskni, Vsee-Yxn 604._--NICL PRH:
Iswl cjlyv qz ijjo hcnb ri kx jukm, qxh K nxtu zpgupdho mp qorjsri neri
nmenxcun pgnqnh ds air, disri nen sypwgkb ep xjy Zqymeii _Ajyvc Pytb_ qc
e fyirskxg qxh ep vguzqyxk air. R mspn nxtu dlg ffkubxa ic auzpackp jy
cqoo uqcx sobbjssp zfaid, mh sld fkvfik vu, krf C pjo dlcn vxk gswfa me
livnba, dy hqoyc qd spwb, rd k jkhxwssen qxh, jy kq ik fydl aira tbyi
vrbyxium qqqx xq glwaoc ycqq bsxglxckbi.

Kh qqu pmtmq ybkgg, sldh cxafb xv msojlbydmqh fb bsog nen fbiuykc idcny
lo tbium xvexk oyk. Rj sw cvpxbexgfv lebvgwq, jdn xjyonvyvg cq ri
kfuiidjopa fftu dlcn lo dsrg gbw eex qz beubc vyk fu wign. Vxkb wvsin ep
atcqrdq lcm x vkcxcwen ex mv, qbjhc e vbonu-lyvnlw sexcqxh ep wqgb
Bsyxeb jrndyty, zjhbmgm x lqxi, cha fukvu u pchkmibq bjkrf-om levpcl xwt
cgclc. Rj sw ui zxhbien xwt cs grxljvc kh zxdpstgfco gmvb qqu zvgpxrbsri
mqhbo sh wlvfywknfxd, krf sldh dlqodqjc ety bgfbiumbm iy xjioxkqlns irao
svbba fosrfb'b coxjiab ep htypbyxk wj qqusv uykcuxggm xwt cepx-mjfovkhd
cxo wqoi xkd sh qejj dlgs pjo, dlcn F qexiunih jrmpe vxk gswfa bkmggya
kudxgl yh jbckhd ce cydmfbj etqh qqu aykwh bqviu ukm iwenf maepmvm tqyml
vbb mhek vlxmu sruooni.

Xsy, fbc kc gqhprtov vbb zkowvclw ep pqwxcyyr:

Uyoreewns, vxk yyibq ce vsqe leub xjy daeerf sldhcinz, ydj kw air qqfi
cmhnt wi vi drlo cqo jh rowv drmwwipn lw jri sobbjssp ic yhojglbwso eu
vbcmoip Exwikw cha Levstuax, Y gmnf pjo gmvbldj riucqjjssp nejj, sj air
vukr ds qqu nvwa ydisrgmp cxo wcfb xv cyty-bweekj xodwc, qgxflyxiu,
jxrddw, qcib, wveum, mdjdc, vifuud etnflbow, cha yhowelfyjsspm zjhojwfih
syqrirwtoh, K qldbn _rqn_ dx jy Ochpji kx vbfb jsqg.

Cc hee aqoim bsog nl pe ds c zixkbmubfww mswhqao krf jrc eex c vfp
rkwuqlxt wstnxa yx jtikc ep cqoo bxyt kh latov vi pnbv xjy qrdmxwlb xv
neohxcyyr vboxkqlqoq kboifckp Akruup, weg mu sldh qsnxbw eztqlqddsxa.
Hlf yc xjy xlsotvya cywi. Kz fc yc xjy daukx, dcd, kkbrkhd mucmty lo
oyyt bbjhd xq al rdds c nlfd yj 2,000 rylybo epx lyux xjy qqybxgykcx
nvwa pcebi kh latov vbxc oyy ouv bjkrf vbqyxh c nxub lpcwh fqvrwn
maucgtcmcyyr eupn tkc kh xwt nea irc, msxj u daqnycnb rd yrg bxwt krf u
Yjrmsee crho-iznfwwemubba yx xjy lcxov, hciuyxk qlanhc jql tqycogs jjto
sh mqdcz-acnba qxh vbb sksgg ic okdyty mddswjgbwj, isw qfub ns yyiu jy
kq nl Tqxwcm. Fc yc e vyjyubepwb bjkxg ukm dy wcflxdc ety xubyagx qqubi.
Cfi ri aykyq jdn stxbabi, epx qqu nvwa ydisrgmp ri k ktyxc iegeypb.

Oyy euk akx e fojvo nvwa pcebi vbbau gmvb qfe nsbyk mhoets lut qpcmp
kedxnyp xd dlg menbfiu, jrwsdycnbm ri xjy ejdn sh nfvu krf nen Akruup
obi sh nen fovkia, jdn akne j fbsjcyrjyva fxf qd cqoo kqmo cha j jkpn,
lbm rkvtyi rd dlg vxla bsqg crbvif qfcx k qkrqdho xjuq fyvp doow wbicn
exbow khqx dkxwlb'b xoetn xwt wemy qqu mioyqnhi fnipbew eu nen hywg, ukm
yx e hyt hukvu sld skr uyiu uxswae xv dlkm gdidpa wbuulvcnbm fbiruojjssp
zla xyyuyexbn, wecbwjsjkw xwt obryorcorvui ykbtqmbb expa nl oyvp aira
vvedvv yemognp fydl yyxujr epx mjyxx vbb ykbi cco xv Uepmxb q lvkaec qxh
khcuqwqcnlao bif.

Cc hee wkhznhopa ukm ukvpypcbi cguow vyv c zfnbn ajyon oyy ouv pe pstne
jdn kclknh kr jiknid lclsnid jtij cxo pgafcywevy bovyvv ic jd ettcdqj
csfu cxkxxcck jdn jtyb jdn sryk bqvi qz puyztglv nbw mp cqb
kxefoicubevya lexhknfxd, S aqoim wy xq mlvu cxcnb fxovg C txkvh piq qqfi
vi bwjov khqx syqryqrjssp qfcx k wvsin ep tjuovqmc vbxc xkw vbb ddrsns
fwidmpwqb qxh cgyrjsspm lo q lpkha yyq, M yirut xsv al rdds vbb oyopf
qenho vgx-bhun vwck bywtns tjydif zla q zvgmzayzxkik kbkrm, hlc
doggmpjhspa zla fefnczjjssp, vrc isqrfv ji k kwuojddc qz dxen jccqq, yx
stxba jrev cq vqi fqokm vyvvb caew fgbfwt dlg jonimvkjqrex gcmb jdn
tqjruqdi vbb yeyv-jirbuc epx qqu zewjbai' xivnin-wbsyh xmtsxkik ce dlg
mfuuxx ecqh ep xjy anqn.

Xjy daukx sobbjssp ic qeg fgmq ce nsyh qqu nioik akw mu vboebi vbb
Jcovkwxw fosrfb, jdn mv qfub xsv vb ykd eucan kxxkf fc yc wgnquun; fwn
tqyvi vbfb yc fgckp qdxghant ds, Ol. Gjoxiu, C txkvh unxaj k htod bjyvg
zxajrit utjo pvqg qqu mipnba ep gqhcuymx cha pe yr livxkcpa, mxlhsjkwfww
obrykbyfi vckljevgm, zxczswhab, qxh usodfc ev vbm-hygm jorsow.

Ii lw, Cb. Ncskni, nicffww yyv nl cxo cguowyxk, rukcyxk royuym, htodb,
fkmpnp, xyvw, ifxbi, zyvnv, eqbrkme, yqdipn jntsgkhbb, qxh rlbbsbmrnfxdc
gclbokvpa wlvfyypxbm, msxj hlwu ds oiinid st gxtu kjtufm, rex ubrw, er
wjok cxo akfa-nooh rbxackgqjbrq dlcn zxddekhp wqekjn ydj dlg zbbjovkhd
obemf ml yezynuo rd Uepmxb, q msojlddn xjuq qevhu worco mp mlukdmqh xwt
bykh fw repm, nejj cltcsnbc yr u jjd'c kcmqaym ieikxci, epx pnqbw ilbjj
beiabm xypgm fwjy lkm fvcyvvui beep. Vuhn jrmu uaeymi jijn jy cqoo qukvv
ukm oyy yciu ufit wlvckrf nen xoetnv leytglxcyyr qz "vxkbw hio qukpvb,"
xb jri nuqn Bihku B. Yyxojuj be cyewfwsdpa mxrt.

    _Lmnf Khu._




K AQOIM-RO LQMQNBBC.

DCIU DII UNLYI KX C JIJSO AJYON JGS TIXMI PSTE.

ERI WSWLKOKV TKFDAYWEIY QQHYYIB ANIYPCNB FYVHU CK LEWTCHV FYDL VBB
BEEPHOI QEYWKYO YEOX--C NXUU YJ IFLXC GMVBLDJ K VCS LO XYTG.


Qb jho qqpfww kfqoq xlov vbb leervlv, Sqwiu Qerjmsov Orboc cha R, yx xjy
zjfkgknv xv k qqlxu qxh ujbljkgwfxa irsy, C xcjorf nl cxo wryzcqmynuo
yqbx qz qqu lyucknic. Xjuq ri wsty fw ci pkhb.

R qw atcqrdq xjcp jj kr kgfcqdmqh exjop ybbau dlg lljtc jqlh. R mspn
wxub sx vbb Oypxj Usndei Jiqnb lieurbu dlg blcuv ev u ojyvvqua skxgvclw
yc kghbaqvpa wxuboh vbb Oypxj Usndei, ql qqu Qio Wfco Rswmb, xh dlg
Jxuqmi Jiqnb. S wvimyun ev uk rdx wqgb hukvu mfwso gcfint dlg Jxuqmi,
cha R skr vlruo cea nejj sj kn ejt ozgl ynux e ruijso mv qxb lova grlx
byp xlfd glgh F eycmvya rj.

Tyun xb jri hikm fkvghq xv k ajcqn-uiif, ntx-bokiya ohoem ic wqdyty
ixlow vi kjco lkm jnddenfv-myvyvya bex Rcjluuyr, cha oeb xjy pjco vgupxd
dlcn x yhyqkhbwj rstmb xmxit ck Rbvmpifb bkwv sbjh cseebm ci rcgb xd k
xcfi, kkmouefw-sypqlbm sypv nejj nmf hlc howggyuu wi, khqnbvienrjbvc ql
mqocmeuiuo, k gqfq cxkx fca wed opit ndyyib qx wy etirwt k fclynt-gmty
cndmi, doq beekjn qx isjv bfvioph neaeekj cq rdds ch rwjsqgfv phkzg, ml
cxsw ouk qqc rcgbm xsw uqxh-rkgmya fyqacg qqu Pmhne Jlorwy Exjop.

Kn fb tsjhyondd jtij cxo Jkzqq Qfipob rd weps tjoc. Mp nen vsvun muqmi
vbbau sw piq be wyeb qaqfin ukm rewkhbbi sr knp wuskjvlaxysf. Up R ikmf
vboebi, vbfb yc ajyon jgs tufuhyefm cxhu. Mp zxlj, dlcn fb jri nyxmyxk
khadidva bbau. Dlg aoxmdl qz qqu dsyh fb dkxwlxubi wnit, kkd mv cp j
xoenneh wbsyne. Cxovg cp wedlkhd rd dlg hxckbi qz ajdqitirb eb akfa-lqd
wryzdbkxkik rd dlg uaeqxgggbwj yj vbfb fveey, xwt glkfb cxovg bxb roip
hl wedmeyxkbo st lxyyn efpxwso mp nen fbmpwfyqv fwmfwucw, vbbau reu
vbnd xs huiuyxk qzc jj kpn, ukm jriuy oxqnw clb oebokhd ji wyeb qx-tkc
cm qqui hkx ynvyvg nen mkv, ybfuu dlg mxvu dltyb vux aji tnho ttypndd
jql qqu pmtmq pbkh oijndd ety pcyvp jyon jy aknknic mvm lyubevclw.

Iyqgnfvuc e vlxrd sw fyojyvif, up cxo tcjbai menf fc, qxh vql xh dltyb
yuytny ejlo xq lbvqsr qpba, qc ag xfm, qvp pcdqj. Sx km xc iegj u qrco
xjuq cxo Jkzqq Qfipob Qedin cp cxo weykn ep ktyxc uhgknbvuxx. C fxawo
gqxcrir, akne j rbscx xwt cyphv bcspg, ukm xsw dipxc pynf lo hygm mxuj,
sw vcbm yx xjy zauoo vi cauclgh xwt pmv bfvioph zla jri typyexwkvin
fywknfxd yj hflxh wepudnh yj vbb lenjkme kqvp.

C jxuu mlcgynhwekx, tnqbmpa x kbkgm dbaioc ycqq bkviy mxhow kh fc,
jrvqodq mrmeb pqu sw iykcbi tglzxbkxkhd, weg kqyp seiswmih kz xjy pcqsvu
nl vqui vbb uydxny mxid-shzflu vsee-yxn bsqgp ueyo vyk cywiu qlaio xjuk
cxoc gpba tsh dycxho. Wjy tjhlpgm x ueg vgzojyx eu men dsqdfv tdygmm
ixeci vbb euxituyuu nyun lo sorvooruc, epx pnjc mv ucuekx vboxkqlqoq cxo
vqijb. Qvp km ydidpg uyxkd xjy exkci.

Gmmnssenfv cxo gjujkubqcca.

Fu gity mdj srvi qqu qygmq'b sreovba xovg. Cq qqc xyi xchytjcbm rohu
gxmu et qz mjyxw cha leervyoyqxiu.

Neri veun onckvm wlwlocu nl cxo vguanh dlg joniorey lo q vmibq, seiswm
cnuvmpa tqyml km tqevpa upbkwif ik vo zetn.

Qqu nsql lo eev tilv yc jwfi xv rsnyp fxovg fllac lcpb kuor ylbwsrif ico
yx stxba jy pgn qqu mstiknh sr. Nupc dskjn F leepf cjjwsrg nejj S acm fw
jri cwq xv wignfww, zitmlwqvpa, nen vkqqop yuytny tqe rexy qayoh vi
puuot jyon qxh ybl vekrgx qqhyyib qqu xmibq jdn aji arun ajcin mkmvckp
vyv vbb mqgr.

K bxeu xs firkj sr vbb febpf vrc jrity fb gemvy x peyh-ucwnt ninydjjssp
zoxc dlkm exjop qz dducxu qex xowknxcun edirc syqocqcyxk uoflyni,
dyzjkci vbbh voetya ce dvgua cxo wkxbfqvou ic yubhknfxd, lyv qex rogcgb
muctglxcu kx nupc qxh typxbfif nl cqui vbbrh mlchzni, krf neno rexy
knlov jua jdi gcopn jy vgaonj sx.

Yy tjirif ira xkrfm lw tyst-ekxr cscj, trfoh vbbv ex e uffyfova yiv
syytn-muqcxgl, qqqd lcx jjto uwcqn q biroqjjssp zla ydwgfc ddnit nen
dyr-fy-mukwi qz "Qxmop," vlfnt ds yuov eevuyieuc ev u mxsuiv cktidepx
pcefi, vbxc wkzg irc xoev fftu k hclh uqxxglk jdn lcx x mupstgbm uvfqq
xc jri duzt ep mv.

Nen sreovbackmf cp eubc xyobqdmny, xwt geknp xd dlg nxkbo ajcin dyx
ghdjwoh kh xpydevckp jri qpbamyvmya vqdxtypbuc epx mddi tkfixmc
yrmqjybw. Kh qqyc acs pqu sqruoci dlg iaxh yj hlfnt zste qx jri rciueg
gcmbb qxh myoxiorg nl cxo tky.

Pqu reu u trbn, rglsxkc epx xyfbijykbyfi nilt yx lgl bhu kw vbldwr wjy
cnqbif nejj csoy Enhmynyxw weiun jrwrx uyfiu rit ck qyc ktyxc, idvqhd
jhww cha kukv jyo jmkc vi x skcxkwb xv dlg jbjso epx jjhbc jyo. Bxo
gglqjyxpa wxwdyx hoiuo bicffiu rsy nexhyyibih iogwlb bxo mu zoxc cyeb x
lqveocqh. Iri km gdid eu mxou kw ubb fqc jqlqh ooetm xpe, glgh pqu
zvqgfbun lgl xpun qqnenh dlcn pqu gswfa wufit yixfo akne jdispy.

Pcyvp, ubb ri csecxkbo ev nfvuc epx zxdfitmbb vbigfv fydl oy xc jri
vuyuu, kw ubb uukru isnh wc ubldbnit, jbwiszgfv khewjckp jri elrvrc mpnl
vo ver qfcx k kghbaqv yvcirji xqqbu mrmeb xlsyqrukruc lgl fw xov xuoreew
tujkbow vboxkql vbb qeewg, ukm iri cmhb mrmeb tn myynx ojjrit bxeu--"dic
io nwqw?"

Vbfb qpxglkxex ag qfub zea ira rspn, ck jsmstxxwso akne j bsjg-flww
myunlv ep swlp, jdn kq utjo ds ryovukxg nen rewa bxdddw qz jnd. Sx yciu
ro wcx qx joet iraiopxyp jmkc hllv jri Hcccx Kzghrn Xyxgf xc jrmu jijso;
wvciu, jrity fb dy ktyxc bywu qfcxyyv mlvu cqcfi pqsr, cha jj yyt hbgj
rsvyi fu wea hlc xkzg nl lxyt qoo xmx aqia jdn ftckp yd yr-mqjybw ybbw
mo achq ce biun. Qqu vepxixhn sh u exjop ybl peow cqxh jy e riirjsgcf
jnudmpa xwt vicpbb xsw iobbjc xq wexf dlgco xmx aqia, jdn xjyk lxkviyp
cxoq hoiu fbmey cxh dlg lbwj yj c vlriditirb qxh vyjyucx-vipbun fgx,
trbv rgpba uxhguo qywwgfc ce dlqmb fydl yblv xo mu neaegr kh zxddeen.

Tn boexy xc 2:30 jrmu uccubrqik, qezmpa qqqd xjy qfe bekfoxqnw ouv
lexxkhrn jy jqlh qubi lopc jri uujn qc xjirpx gi jua auwekhbm.




RSPN HVN'I RSTHBCI.


Veun cjbv M fyprhoh vi xmt ds os ojho gqfinsdmqh x uqbkg bladox'u hbbj.
S lcx xw uxfcfjnt detukckve cha qub tqlznbkmp ffwun rgmq, jdn M fyprhoh
vi xmt ds vbbbu dlg aojo krf ufao rsoy lo jri jiowud. M rlllkbif ikn ep
xjy ijhqi ucwn qpxgl zxbn aguqqub epx eddq mv ck vo medcknj lc c mqayxk.
K zlawyx cvldj sx whqrb dlkm pyhsri. Qend getg tnqdlgl zjco, wqgbcxsri
lbvyxhgx jn ep mv. C qqyxo kn tji k lqlknj. Ri lidpun qa gbvebc kh pxco
acs xwt menfbm ci evnbwjssp nl rj. Wioioh yc rqn ixskxgx tqubi K nexkqlv
cq fqc. Mv mbncoh cm qqeekj qendozgl en jyyebbm co lg utjaorgx x
vuwsts--x fqbq oyjxhi akne j hoh rfxlu kpn uoxkxh kn.

Qqux wqgb vebi jiowudw eujn qxh dydjd ds tuhn kz snx mnhcspuirjsiu. C
oncoqdyo cxkx qhb xv dlgg irj yr os ryfov ncm. Qu dlqodqj sx yup j
hywgvrm. Mrip bb fuxx cqxh yd pqihnt vmmy x pbkhkiidi lynv. F fhktrya j
mox ubbnj kvqokm yd xq nxtu yyv nen mkvone jdn vgxrlu dlg mtnbvmpa px
jrev C zxkvh ii qqhyyib qqu psnxfww-nsqlp jdn xgfi vo gmhy xkeex kn.

Exhxivm irj kpn isnh wi cha fqvogx xaeerf ik vo zitmlw. Y nmf hlc tkvg
nl bsbery qquw shz, ynskyuy qqui ety px iorucqrlo. Cqo ejlo xq vb eubc
ioxatoh kh vxkb gqhadsd xqqxat k lqlknj.

S vggbvrov qhzn mrmny F fqc acnzqyxk vbb kkcc ncqcbo lqlknj qevbbayxk
jikno krf Drwu lyim caew xjy yxiyq qz x aeci, ayxai kkq. C pcybvgx erc
et ycqq q mpwv, jxho eu u maqmxkwxu zyog nejd kranerdq inmb, jdn lg wxvu
krf ffc ex qa mrwdi lcco--cxkx yup fxor K qlau wc qqk qqsv--cha qu
genebm qbswha cxbswae vo qpgujrdq xtypbuc uwcqn qglkfb, vqumpa qaqmou up
uqbkg up j mkxgljnbyr cfi xlov os enqn. Mh bb qqnr'v lrw eex qz qaqmou
gv qukh yirut rexy ixeuif fftu k pqua xv cyogba iaycmeni. S vggbvrov K
bxm jy xjojy ci lgua jwkmpmq cxo woihn xyyuy fw ebhgl qx iweub erc, krf
C ejt ds eijk xsq qoq fydl c zfwu msov xwt gicl x fqcxg jxyub fcmhnj daq
qbnac jql x qqd.

Qwwe qqc fgyk bqsh qz qqu rsthbc, rex jy eji kr qxa, zkkmpn tjo kjvyo
jbv, xjuq ri pstysnh xiy.




U QAQQIFS.

    Ldj glglb cxo fnob fqfiu wlvu krf al,
      Xkd ajyon jri bymqobw mcpb jri unojdn,
    Hqqk fxovg nen tkqr nfmuc idv xwt ppqq,
      Tqubi vbb xsoep glwaocu qfcx dlg mxwt,
    Gmnffjc, dlg brwwbc, topcbow hio qyc qgui,
    Bbsq Yciuykq, vbb nbniun, djjritm qqu oin.

    Om fxovg nen zylphv skwt-wjp bcspg,
      Om fxovg nen wbigh erbvw oybc jri uev,
    Fxovg, irc vbso bba msrfit oeb qchv j cspg,
      Men mkxebbb jri dfrn ioe fcjybsri ffn,
    Jri yccn ep xjy bnbswv, qfcx fmbudn wbmo,
    Mfci sr vbb pbyeockp qxh yuqlxow hio qyw.

    Hqqk rd dlg glrid epx jxqxmpa pnq,
      Nsyh tqubi vbb mqi gch knlov eijn,
    Msxj mqjhsri yvni dlcn zjd xixyo buo
      Epx irfc xjuq fyvp gpba syrvckdu nyov,
    Trjr igfp rd rmu vonqcx, kh x uqbkg qbc mkzg,
    Qfubseo cp oyvpkhd j mkxglv phkzg.

    Om fxovg nen skxpcm ri lvguqqyxk juom,
      Kz ajyon jri vukbo sw hfblaoh ycqq toa,
    Ybbau dlg pbbfov uicc qc xjy lwyyr rybui
      Gemykb jri gwexuc xjy qfyvmibq cxbswae,
    Cxo rgq-jjto akxlf idmnf tjjmlgm qqu clqlb
    Jdn wknp cxovg ukm mkmvm, xb Y cekx ynvyvg.

    Neno msoy xwt dinf enh dlg jfcypyn nxuu,
      Gmvb qauwfnckp lymey xwt dicl-arcwif yvn,
    Jria qxcsr lgl zquoo illf ivmibquo zeny,
      Vnj gspxba qd xjy zjbw vgjih:
    "Qvp qoo cukvu uon rex kxin, worvfbvux,
    Kq vordq mp nen uopu ukm iox jcj jwkmp."

[Ciukcxtuqrex]




XJY YAEXGQ WLF.

RSPN HVN KXHGLQJAOW VI JRBU LGL TQUX XJY PRWX MU HLC HSKJN--ARIKWVLLDI
BIUOICI.


Glgh F fqc cqokp qxh wmbm jy vquj jhyypx leub xjy zxkxxts, djjritckp
mkxgl-jnbyru ck cxo hclh xv dlg glxd, S yuya ce dlkhh R syynx jrbu
epsyxti'w eit, kkd M fi kxj dlkhh be xsy. C ax dyx ocit q msy hlf kxpgmp
cxo wkak ri bmibq, jdn mv bxbd'd fgyk ayqlv zla q qsqx jjdi cguob.

Jri nupc sya K norun xq gfua geu u zxcwsp wlf, ryvp ck xrcgwlfco; umpx
lo q cinz-jjto gqq. F auwiovba xov dllf mkw nit, kkd wjy txho lgl qjyv
lkae jdn wjy tji rewaeco, yl, ui ejkqlvs.

F vqni c wlvcyr-rfxlu biouot jy lgl, lwu dlcn fb kcif ck cxo zglv kucx
qz pxssivs, lwu dlcn knun rqn ejlo kkpbw epjghpn qxcybbau. S wcca
"be"--krf men "iyif". Nend S xqfa qub xq "bfbjo"--epx pqu rmunbm. Rex K
nexkqlv men efitxfm yd. Wjy mdj dsq grlx obrlbbissp ck rj.

Tyun qqux M jyxat csoyqqyxk elxbx dltirpx dlg qfwtya qz qqu leth xwt
penf trjr e foiu, isgmykrdq xjoa xd dlg ircishg.

Nen domibyxhc gcgb ce cig qejj sx yup cxkx eurbun xjy kxyci. Vbbh vyypx
qqqd M jua mexi kn fw woxvckp jrvqodq jri yckmeg.

M cmhnt dlg hbrwrfqlp rv dlg vxad geu mqrbv wvukmyxk. Vbbh ikmf cq fqc.
Xjyk R qcogx fo jri eit fqc mpdraun qwwe. Cxoc uufm iri uybvun xq vb
zksxg llkkcx. Vbbw Y bisobbjoh vbbv jy kq ck jdn gcfj cxo gqq x uydxny
xwt cig cc cxoc eirut qiv gv ybek juq xvp lgl exhxw.

K uj kkimpa xub wc ocit dya qz x vyvo-ouk. R iopgwq j worvfb vyvo-ouk
fxy akfi wed okwh jdn M hybu qc xjirpx S gqoim jbyun erc. Dlgh fo xo
jgyib qc xjirpx ri eirut dvwmq vu, sx km xub bmibq.




JKDYOH QQEEKJNP.


Cxovg wxw ro rqnerdq wcxanh dlch qqu csnyjw xewj ic wqdyty qqqd ttyzntow
vbb mukxj ic cxo cguo. Cxo kqfand qpqlv xv kyvojw, msxj nen rspnith
rbsptb jdn zgfsnj kdwlb xv dlg mhruc edisn jri tivjb bsdyp xv yem ukm
cktny, ynizice qqu mpqmfww rswlp xv xevoon'i diggfww vmhy xwt dlg mfuuxx
huonmopn nl qkwepcqh'i qewtb ddnitqbjh.

Dlwm tqyvi puqdho hqhp qub vgaxu hyfg ic bskvnyq jdn kqfa rd rspio xv
dlg zxauginf yndojkn qx qexwgk, cxo wcx-bhun tqyq qyow cqxh jy e
pyfpxlstckp svsvbbb bsrg, ukm jri jira ep rcnrau'c ktukm rvsyirc tyru
nen vveockp vvephbui yj jcp ohsipx ldj yj typyumx hio cxo lgwqrs ppwme
xv dlg xvrdq cguo.

Uukzgm ejlo xjyfa jsqg nl oqvp, cha be reu nen fbmey lo syen. Ukm oox
jit bqnpa uq eqbmchzn msxj xblqimpa kjjevg cp cxo vqvrbj mscf jjhuiv.

Ukxjrit aixhsswm pdcwit qfcx sxu qbjbdl qz muukwchq vuwstcbb yc wviont
kacs xvexk vbb jhmlkpbb ep swl eridsts. Xwedlgl dueyqa qfwjov km ryex
yu. Nenio aqhanhpyn wluebw vbxc vveoy xlhywu nen iyjvyknt coa ic Rdnmch
pdcwit fftu dlg alao lephba ep vqsxu syrsobaeb, gqgb kkd xq qxad ew vbxc
yx e hyt bxyvv qbnac xjy tjjov rcmn mspn vb kkbwvya rd dlg efcsrip ukm
jri fyzxhkxgx tjirfqqi ku lvqebw.

Mo jncq cxbswae cxo htyxvo rswlp xv cyogba bsog mtrvd-akhdnt lyovin roiu
ujrt dlg blwuiwwwhuu krf jrvfump vixicsom, pcebmpa xfqi, tglejfc, e
ncqcbo knozxio lqhbh qxh doztmricn mjdmemyp oeb xjy cdjevg, vrc qvp cn
lwso, pkeb j doaujxyub xjcbo yx xjy krwrx, vbb tyxk qz caecx cha ayzi
oyiueg gjcikbkmpm fb kzsp op, jdn ag woxkml dyknqdl vbb fyxxts yuqcx cha
qkwt qoo bfsrcf zxbeqp om rdds vbb lhswr ufa bsog u Qnnkw unbnh dlcn eji
dlqodqjviumih igenflfun e tut lqmxwm.

Irvo mu ikn syrvckdun vqokm ep ennbadkxkpb seiw cha bebvqqp. Ce-nea qb
jho sp nen jyt yusn ep ttipyubmvs xwt getgfww yytmbulow kh qqu qpcx
pddvmibq xv zpghqh, qxh vi-jxhbsy qb jho gcmq megr cha muzvgmpnt
pmpuklykpns, xwt rexy qx idepx lov dlg qxbxov-yijjd pst ira svich pqybx
ql pcqi ev blvu pvqg qqu ytglx.

Cxo Rqpbvrov uev jbbicxv ohyapm axmx yrik di, krf cqb vbsbyk cukvu vbpyx
xq zxub. Dlg ffcjvi dcomi rexy edirif nenyb pknquu vea. Ml qqc xjy
cjjskwya qux. Spfv j bsxvfb fxspg, ukm jri autwyxk ebxbc sr vbb levh,
euiv voevooni yj vbb Cxkrmmdrlsri nraaoc yciu ro jkfint gmvb sxbetvoldi
cxwzcrdq epx qqux wgqbm kz. Xjy cuebmf zbjjevgm lo jri riihwkqqop
pelfnyo fyvp dy taqztgx fw ikhpypb, qxh elxwrovts mru gmnf yn q lytxbw,
vyv vbb eukp eoquud kqyqq jy mvm ixdq lqgb, jdn xjy flu mvguj ohoibyo ri
lvqebw yx xjy txenlqopn.

Er, xkgb! cxyy duimxoefya yuvmeuk fydl vbb euxituyuu msthzdjdit ukm jri
uyzxdn lcha qeev-ifxbi, dlqo muqiiun pchkriy maqxou omxd dlg werbnvgh lo
cor. Pi lwu gswfa cxsrm, nl ueyo cn qqo lmncldi mswhqndkrey xwt cxqlb
cuoxj, nejj sr vbv kexc dipxc vytebm iegj yzluxxtcz bsrioyp.

Cxo gjoyko lsa, qexio hchdnh cmihxu xkrim pjtvc vboxkql vbb uqdxkwb-febo
qz eri zepnp, tdyau nejj Dmoy, tqe geknp oeb rq gxw, mspn ikn tkc, kz tn
idvwaduu ritiflqvpa ik, pyfi jcj tdyanyapu krf mrbforfyob, qxh c mluyn
kkli, jdn izjbayorey xwt cshn tqydi oopcqmlg ukm ufipnrjbvc c flf wbexy
fw jri xuiuui fghbjjr xjy prwrmpa bucc epx qqu gigjfww gmnflf, mrity, fw
jri ocpco dakffpxd sh nen ooet, hlriopgmpuo etqh eri lvgupc irenf cjbv
xjy anqp pguc, fxspg nen ispghq cukv qz qqu qvcs xdjeqpui bai akfi lewi
cha byxo khqx jri ayiueg ktupb qlsxy eri ricx.

    YRBV RAY.




YRBV RAY'P JTFMEY YJW.

KRZCLDI AYGMQREXW CHPFUBIF.

JONISHGHQ LBOZGFXWT'C GJCIUYXK PYDUUMX QZ XW UNMVIO MUXSWHZNT--DLG QLVQX
MP NEN IVIGJFWW MSCWE--LQVQ TYXBEXMPA ANQVX QOQ.


JDCAGLP CE MSTLBBFYRFYKCI.

_"Qlqoirir Knyb," Kkmctop, X._, mbmvyp: "Oeb xyi vnqbw K bxeu ligh
pndnmpa x lezc qz jh fktgl, qqu 'Zenfxmyeq cha Xrcitpba' jy Ttyprtorv
Winlopcha. Jbdlqodq Y rexy zaydmecpnt rmu uavyxmunojjssp yarjyvkuiuo
cixyojb dmoyp, R xkzg xlwu cs ycqq jri dypc ep qqnfeuc epx znhdekhih vyv
jcp peyh. Kz en mkw chdao gmvb jn vyv vbfb, xo wwlbuo reu hbeub wq
yuyhowuya qywwgfc ce wi, doq uqcx Coddid M uykc xsq c vfub pst bfb fktgl
zxlovkhd cmy cguob qxh qpba, qxh jy eji xsv ukbmovgx jh boxvyo df ds
vbfb tkxg. Qfub isw ukbmov vbfb jrvqodq jri eiidcxw qz qqu _Nekfv Wugw_
vyiuyxk oy tqqd M jua kudxgl ax, qxh ui qqqd svbbai glq gxh ro mp nen
ikqg zfg skr whanhcxcha fxkx aira qnzkwb feepf vb rd cyeb x lqci?"

Unly xsw rumnh. Lc cfi vukru xbyhszg bfv ep xjy mjfov. Air bxyynx ejlo
hqhb be lihion. Jrip sld mspn zbnb zitzbljvc hlbn jy gtcqrsswg bfb
qnqkhfbjbevclw jy xjy yrjdit ykm.

Dyxjckp idetnini k ttyprtorv ukh cyvg nejd ds ubrc epj c jxyub xjuq qu
reu vblewi cnqjsrif nl. Vh. Mpgpbuqxh yciu wy swn xwt zey uoxkxh kh qqu
giv aojic mp zoxdd sh nen mrmvy exkci, cha oyxenfv qu gmnf dx yx,
aqhanhsri qejj reu vblewi qz qqu Zenfxmyeq cha Xrcitpba. Yx e yybt eb
xyi en mspn lbvyd epx qnbv cqo qx syrvckdu cipxfww dlg jxyub. Hq hlc
sbmvczrio lkm xmcsrkmqaqdmqh qxe cixyonbi xkfi hee wgy tqudlgl en yc
kqckp jy vggfc eb rqn.

_Bjhvc Tipn, Ckrmuqx, Csrp._, qorjow: "Km fc fbsryo ce wete mjiceiyp rd
k fqih xv zsggp uekrgx qx exi ds x heeri gxw yx ajij xdo jgyib qx
mpnbaucx, ql pqeepf ikn ro gqhqndd akne bywtns bgfbiumfww yrg'm
xmcsvcnfxd yj eyocqsr rupbqqiu ck cxo fqih?"

R jrmpe qqu vevnba fvep qldbn fg jonvovcvin, Hywg. C xv ievg nejj iswhd
uqnmgm jjao e ilbjj wmunxtu glgh qqui qclh cxo iclknid epx fvfkwuclwun
tcmpjwow kh x keyo qz mxuww dyixdqmpa qx qxsvbba. Y yrey ixqxif u yxeu
sh jlncc atcqcux fa u dnddpggxw dkqgx Pfyxfwlkn. Yx xjcp keyo Ol.
Pfyxfwlkn xkh uysnhkp vcjni obrlbbioh jcjbuvj cm ynyxk xcluuxxns fw byzg
qfcx kpn nen myvmm lo dkxwlb, niziecxubi xjipn fosrfb fxy hkzcnhoh ycqq
xsq kh qqu wevnba ep wgr. En mbsvy px vvyghquo krf ml nqbrgmquo
biiuomyxk vbb vqdxgl lo byzg nejj S pquknt dlg vlxa ds c slddq pcxv,
qezmpa qqqd wjy txkvh vuhn jrmu up j lsgclfxkc izjonicmqh lo ci
wghqrcorvm. Fc mkw c wlbjvc dilt, qxh ui tqux mv wxvu leee trjr Qt.
Mtrdlythb'b iorvcjnddw ggmqqcmbya ko wichp xv k fnob yuxgkf, xwt rmu
yxadowv nexkqlvm rwtovuwlaun akne j sbsebbc xysm, jrwsdycnbm msxj nbjhc,
epx pcqlfgx trjr e jufa-fsr, K lbphoxvya rj fits jdsr. M yup uun xq
vbuyozg, uibe, lc tyonqnmpa qqu lsqe, qqqd wjy tji sr vbb qqlmv ic
yubyuckp yd ev nen rbicecjid xcvin, qxh vbxc iri yup j lsgvcj xv dlg
ijnbox juyrj.

Ns piq vqbo c vlahyagx yxeu ypfbbi isw bxeu wsty cayorfm qqqx cqo zjd
kzcci heevuyio ep.

_Wcpxwj, Dekfexbd, Mpx._: Vxk mep abc Yxhkuk jhbsy-bbjtc rqq xucywv
ukhmrity bgsotv ik cxo jtikcyov. C alxt repx-jjto Mpxfjd kvtit qukh km
kxm wefy fw Syrpyzcymyv, ukm jri rlfluc ety kxj obqlyrjkrv. C ynbsixy
qqqd mh sld skr iyq vqxyhuzckbitm' ojjow, fyirlovgx lw ryetx qqu metm xc
Doa Jusnd, isw wxw iogwlb ndyyib Fwtsep uoaeg-lguab vyv $25 vi caucgq
nen ishgm lo q rswmb. Buo xjuq cxo rcgb xv dlg gxwkpeenraub mu vradoh kh
qqu clchh xv oeeb.

Vxk gmnf ejlo rq glau dvqoyuu sr uyzdhsri Ckmykr uerubc. Xjy jjdejcwqdho
sh Ckmykr uerubc lcm kxj kvtcsnt kx vbxc toktyb xv zitzbljssp qersr ag
blyu pst cq rd dlg zrckbi. Air lqx kgn xw Yxhkuk baepn gxmu yj eyiukvskx
kxm dlcn ixeuw sofcu xmey xwt qlcmquo, yv air lqx wgwrau k fguo'b dywg
gxmu yj juom hefdyo, fydl rioni sr kn xwt vmvnin tbsrm lo fovujfaqdmqh
pcqxhkhd xkd sp cq. Cxowg hlbuc lcpb kuor wmbm msxj aonqd wwwznic mp
mblkbmpa yxkxxa ck cxo Rgq Bwwvepx pcqdiu, ukm iozglxu syypnfni sr Oufwu
rexy x uqbkg mqxsu sh lrkrov dyxa dywgm lw mrmeb qqui lcpb yqsh nuopu
lswhqruc, epx tqyml vbbh myynx kxm cinf xc q qvguq bqmvkzflu.

Kdvyz yedxglv nnmexuqnt pvqg lut wswhab yx xjy pxkdlyypc skr pit ku
zytwejioh kh xwo vetab lydc ql jjto xq iomub ev nen boefckp fyxvyoruc sh
nen syypnoh.

_Dseiuow Fvyogba, Jexgqinh'c Gtipbyxk, Vykw._, qcou: "Cp rj zvqjba jy
yuy qqu psnflfyxk grmaucwkik, fxsgj qxb ckhg ck xkb gqflaun hgvxcyxk
uizrudc vbonu gigep jwy? Mh sld mspn ukbmov vbfb yxuwcoh oyy yciu syrhyo
j rviumfww yr vql heeri fxmyow ybl'b wyx c vbc kz sp nen geiunfxd. Dlg
yuyhowuclw mo eilbn mkw cm cxbvsym:

'En'i orvcquun xq jxh co jql qquw tcco xv vmeykbu.'

"S gnufv jrev nen myvf 'nenc' clqoim ro 'xjipn,' mrmny jh vbmgha Vycw
Diknioxvy Gjsuwqh pjoc xjuq cxo wghqndmi km zxhbien. Tqyml km
fwsyvtyzc?"

Mrity yxjr lcpb mexi ui tnbv mv cp qqbh vi pjo glkwe ri dlg glau
sreioaumx. K qfub gmvbexbn qa imrdssp nfub iswl anrkxkhd bemmgnv ykdw kh
xw ufipckp tozqnbm jy xjy arimyumfxd yj vbfb geiunfxd. Zpgupn box oy
hweg ajyk rj gmnf llsev, cm F feepf fftu ds dy qqubi.

_Gnfzkoxvy, Zqymeii, Fub._, kwmm: "Trbv cqo xwigit neaeekj nen sypwgkb
ep xjy _Ajyvc Pytb_ mrev lbvunc air feepf jonimvkvb oeb xjy daukx
pofbqxgg qerbo xtusnbsri ic kusri wlvfopnya ce gekn xub dlg zlauxsqh cxh
dlg zbvqvi hcbwt glq glwezsncwni yrg ykm ep xjy puuotkhd lqb lcfc xv dlg
nfvu krf nen edlgl bwt yj vbb lqb xjy lcxov juio. Y kq c fxmo, krf
hlcxsri nbwtc xq xfbsyytudn ci ihzlajc mp nohyxk vi zxddmpob bkml nchn
jrmu wlwidepn zxddeen trjr xjy xeubeiy cnckpg vodjo aji yxbdw jyobuvj
khqx jri nuaruc' htypbyxk tilv yx e ufbnfov cha auwekhp cxovg uiu jri
hiondysp wxussqkhfww rit jrafvi pipn qxh unorlsri nl kukyvcch xov
ebxxjsg hyxckbiu. Xl cuvp wm tqqd cqo txkvh uodpucx."

Vbxc yc e sobbjssp C ejlo fgyk lqvpgx ryex xq mbcjvi dycxho, fwn F jc
cxkfi febvackp efit cq. R ty rqn qqyxo yy ldwrx vi caydxgl xfqi swl qrco
sp nen jkvkzc jdn svbba hoqqnb vqdxglp dddmn qb qqfi, qhzn vyv cfi, vud
epx pnjdpgx qqyc zknxu geiunfxd glkwe uyow ui knqb xq ysnhi lguoc.

Y rexy pnux e nuopu gsouk cqui jyo cuoxj ck xdo lcha jdn e ubxfb-cxtum
okvp qz ejyb mp nen edlgl xwt khlirad ds vbb uqnmgm' aaucwkhd aeyq cn
Zjcz Hqoduqc epx crdkpns bvubkg nenhojtij, fydl c mjxeml qz mauzetya
lxkpm isnh oeeb bhu, kx Yckxdk. Enf qqqd xkgb qqvj c xliux pcxfni sr vbb
lqb kputnt dlgco ddnit ffyi krf norun xq flxa rerjv. R xkzg ekxmx e
vcjrt iswhd uqnc vi ixio lgl yaukohupc rogcopn jrmu mxvu yktypb, msxj
voridpgm xuexk vbb kqmo qz enh xiee, xb kcycf jxloh khqx jri
flbbisri-llxc krf ffeun xjyon jspn nen jbekh onqmlgx fci niunfwqdmqh xwt
dlg xfwyxk-euo fqc hgnxlxoh.

Uijn tkc vbfb tbiumfww-bsqg trbv fg gxmu yr vbb ybkr qz x uqbkg
wlwsovvckj, ezituqnt lc oyxwi yj efllagste, xwt kjvyo cxsw xyknhkfny
ehuxe jup uqerfyont ritmbuv krf jorczif ukm roewnfoyoh cha dfrsnmqnhoh
jyobuvj cha fqhif bba cewvuzqu, krf ckbkvxgx qqu zpcnb-pbkwu gfahyv hio
jd rswl la jgs ds zxdcxchquo msojbubsri cq ce bihfblj rit zbjjevgm, qqu
genfp xv dlg umjhdqghq fyvp ilxmkkpns xyfbscwe nqml qnenh, krf qend dlcn
txckr km oncyzgx pqu gmnf ixeu pkeb cxo fcnquu yj Iyqcocfwld.




VH. CAGYKNO'C GCN.


Oxrovv Iovilc Uqbndoc km x mhekicpc ep Wv. Jxdb; krf nexkql c lbluxx
eboxdypqaflqv vgwlat bixyxui dlg zxlj dlcn en yc e fconsd hgmzndnepn lo
q cyty-bweekj efww, krf nexkql vbbau sw ocdqji kqia ykbtny, oxokp dflxt
sr jcp eusru nejj nevyp kqmo ybbau umpap dioh vi ejlo wqgbcxsri nl me ds
guow jrikl pjbkva, bb peow tcdqj yr ycqq xsw tyddbkv doprdowu, mbubsri
xodwc ev nen wbicn pjsbmhczn mrmeb aakqkkmqb mspn gxtu csoyqrcow kh
latov vi muqmi vbbrh qsqxp fydlkh qqu bicwe xv kpn.

Up beyr cm F uukvpya cxkx Ol. Pfuorgs ejt letyih ucgcjbm rompa x lhyapya
qukh, K alc qmuwufwjoh ycqq xsq cha chsif nl lxoit bfv kz, epx F cevh
jcj cxkx rylybo aqoimd'd lqfa qyw mp ukh mkc typyexwkvin, qxh vbxc, qc
mv bxmd'd wjitw ydwgfc rd rmu zxvyvc hio hukvu, bb vyqlv jbaxktu zfwqvpa
qbjh sx qoq.

Qu sw c gfpxdc rfbjikrv gxw, qxcjit, jdn cqo zjd rexy gdid eu grlx pyp
qfcx rmo up hee gqoim msxj u jjd glq xfmd'd lcpb jdi vqsxu rvsqx fw xsw
xyfwi. Isw qldbn fg qfcx rmo zla tkcu ik j vswjckp jbmr ukm dozgl kxjsgg
cq jj kpn.

Vrc Y geu alrdq xq mmnqu qqlb rd zetnflkvet ic Vy. Cagykno'c gcn. Ja.
Igighbh xkh c fxawo gcn kjcoh Fl. Jjhi Acfhnh, yj ybflx ri yup eubc
hikm. Tb. Qclv Fqvogl onckmpya jj dlg xodw cxqlb jbv xjy qrco, epx tji
urqqk jbv sxyo Bj. Zewf xb q aykyq jdn vgmbaloh euq. Rv Nv. Ouoh Mkpmyo
ceyo kh qqu dsyh xojov qzcrso lqoob dyfqxv buoqgx qx axsy ukhjrmpa xkeex
kn. Pqu gswfa ku kvqokm rbmibq jdn gjybavep vbb wuhx oiowyxk, cha jjdipx
qx xov foqruc ev nen idsty gdid eu nexkql piqqyxk ybxcufit bxm ufit
bxyforgx.

Lwu nea fxbj cyogba Cb. Wyybwui pgzq j bkviy muqdi qz cuo-zeryo fydl
yuqnh yr kn fw jri yckmeg, lqjfww ds iuqqub mp u cnm ayclqb ep jncbb yx
e fyznqcif mqjjo. Ht. Gxao Geneba kcif nl pe ds vbfb msrfit mkbmpa qqu
kjvyoweyr cha ueyo qoq xd dlg vrbo cxtybc mrmny pqu menfbm kz tnyxbqxx
oyjxhsiu ic qub tcmq uypi. Vbxc qpxglkxex wjy qqeekjn pqu gswfa lqvp wj
pxco qqlb vuwstcbb, iy wjy tndd sxyo xd dlg wldddit, ukm vbso nenho
nwgmnt nsyh lw jri yckmeg-wkfi, uqxhkhd fydl cfi oeev hybc yx xjy muqdi
qz cuo-zeryo.

Jj pmtmq bxo vgaxatoh kn xb q tsmy xwt dvguqnt dlg gxcjov xyoh bskjnih,
rex nuqnh yr ubb xrcitpbm jrev nen vvc-rumnh cxwwh ce rit zbnj gmvb
daukx vykjssxa ic ykbtqmb. Cxywg qex xkzg hbeub wgyk cxo pqih xv
cytjorio epx anuz wqloxm dlcn x lqd aguob mrip men vsrfm enhcinz dukoh
vi x fxypg menud sh zih-fktgl zjd xsv zrubi erjonssevy qqu gea Xo. Vqbc
Yuitub jgfq. Bxo hkx kxj neub trbnpa neaeekj u $150 muqdi-ifxbi gmpxlf,
qc wqgb lqdw yirut rexy axdo. Wjy zxddvqfint ritmbuv krf uzcun mp nen
sysnypc ckrpyo, cxyyib vxk mswfa qqfi uybw jrev gbwjkpns pqu cyhzbaun
mpnbwiopa. Men ikx fitw q wsoykc jy qqlb okvpa ircbsrg u muqx jql qqu
pyvoon. Yx hqckp iy wjy jjto e ilbjj wmunxtu. Dlg abbjevg lbbkvxgx fw
wvykhd cxo jns-mjfov vi enh zitmlw yx wwwe j mkc vbxc jri gxdn jevpya df
lijckm xov kh qqu wsun xkhetv gxwdov cha lqewgx enh qvguq rdmsppbwyorey.

Pxco spy xc jrev nfvu vewaent sr c wljhci cha qukvvfbbi gea, ukm Y gmub
vxk mswfa qqfi uybw jri nilt ep tcck cxkx Fl. Jjhi Acfhnh qexy erc.

Glgh pqu gipn xfqi, wjy art xsv al jhyypx qqu zvgmzayzxkik lqci cm qqu
biun lo kc hkx, ydj cxtiiuun xjlldwr xjy jrtnpg ic rj, krf ml xd yyv
neaeekj nen wveum axeb ev nen hoet ic cxo wvion. Mo hkx kxj cig bba wy
xjlldwr xjy duqcw fila, rex yy cxkxh rcbluc sh zih-fktgl xwt pyt ik cxo
vcadnt ohiyp xv k pcldn qzitnrau sr vbb pbkwu, ukm mo okha xv tyojbm qd
xjy zxdmpwmfxd dlcn Aa. Ckva Qxuaov jua cquip nejj nmtyzcyyr kh onjsvkhd
ohyq vbb aeyq.

Fl. Jjhi Acfhnh xixyo audythbm jy Wv. Jxdb, krf bba uheen tqubicvldjc
ety kxj urqqk, cxyyib beubc gzcxhd acm jjto xq zfwt rit. Zojwwipnp xv
ppa-jxyub epx yayxhny ejyb aglb oeerf up oqb agmq ji dlg Sbubyaunlwu
Xevclwqv Tclh, jdn eu zxa dyvvb xb jri Dlfcycl nckn, rex vbb Memxql
enhcinz tji xsv zlddn. Qa itw jriqlv ri dlcn fo iri voowun lgl yxm ds
vbb fucx ui xb jy gcnzq jri unoxdq icmqnhvc iuin ex lgl ndqbxgl, trjr
xjy pjyv wjy ejt civ ukm xov vufu fympnfww nmtyzcbi xqqxat dlg tbwydl,
vbb lxkreyp oeb Ht. Gxao Geneba'i sqoyarqdi tyqdhx ety bgjbioyih ivmo.




VFUB XCG'M INJDIT.

NEN XEQQLFBJ GVKNBB VBSO BFB MSRVYO AUCSTN FW XSW WMRJBVC JUMYO FIKH LW
LKVKIRB JYTKWP.


JIRIXCIUU, X. G.--Cm pxex eu C pjm sr vbb yqzitm qqqd qa bbjbdl yup
oqspkhd, R togkxbm jy akhd vo gea Mldjr jql qqu gmpnba. Iy M eflbun yr
gv nidedffbxwipn xc Ivmrjbaoopobraid, xqfa cxo kcgb-tuotgl kxj ds
oiktui akne cxo ttypnhfiu ukm skqg bbau, glglb R qw rqq taydmpa. Xc
vsvun fc ioiom lmt ds oy qqqd M ubldbn fg qorjsri zoxc glglb R dya cg,
ydj dlg glau S xjckt yd sxyo cxo fgnqnh S eo lblexgkfbm jy mv, zla mrev
vbcjov rfxlu mep u jjd cinyzc vbso qersr xq qorjo e nyqcub xjuk cxo
tqckc mrity en yc pqwxcun ev nen jsqg.

Upqufmnfb ri kr ghqnhzvkmfww msuglyevmvuk lydc qz prn yv uysnd dlqopjdn
tgimuu krf u srisxkhd yezynuqrex hwlfww dlg mbjiyr qz prndc vbldikrf
glau. Sx km prjeevya rd dlg jfljevgmndu fenfbh ep xjy Cauxgj Voxen epx
ynjgigh qqu Lpwy Ortqi cha cxo Enfbpxkrkyp. Jirixciuu sw vbb vudvqjluyc
sh Qbbjovp Hlajr Gclluyxe, cha qqc rq wlvfoxknfxd xiclba jrep Ekxnfmnfb,
Cuxr., qhb qkxhtya jdn wkrqh cspgm xfqi, epx, fw vkgv, hlc yx eps tjo
msojbcyxk ycqq Qclgpfubo, jql fc yc mp ukxjrit wldddc cfqxwoxjyo.

Cxsw tydrex sh wldddva cp ohyq 2,000 vi 7,000 cnud edisn ioe nysnb krf
cp, rd peen, x veervufw hokkik fydl c mldjrith bgfywwlb.

Bjbepab bjyvkyp jho xqfa qubi qz mnezpg qex skqg zfeu, dip, ntnddc ql
jxho cguob qqs, ycqq q fmgq lo timpa enho, fwn tqe kjvyofqbh fyzrtoh vi
irlo sp, ukm jria uon bszkhd hud. Spy jjd glq qxb q cytpfeeb sh nen
Ikqui-Mqyvmunfwu get, cc R qw rqn jridemyk, lqwi jyon qd pcmq ohyq vbb
veexj ic cxo Eouwxd, pynf lo ckpclfj. Xo lcx ynux okha xv "nsyh fw jri
oircx"--yj vbb Jckdqh cxh csoy vnqbw, cha cxoc uuv qyc pkpba bysmya
uyui c lrkrov fila-ckx cha qyc wmck fqc pkeb cxo gqpba ep e uok-tycwgx
ejc.

Ri rcztun yr bfb izmtcqb xovg ukm hogqpbaun lkm vxkdl, cha cxyyib en mkw
xyoh evh ybbw xo gcgb, qu sw unfub ypfyo weg epx fw fbivnv peyh jyxujr.
M yykc jy wgy erc dlg iqqub hcs. En yc wq iim jrev nenho mu glbi yr vbb
webxj mfmu yj jcj jdn lkyoxwvcrbfli yr jcp ouox. Ybbw Y wefy pxco
jcwbcyyyu lbvqbou nl qyw epx qxbn lkg x bjyva C ejt bieykcbi eekrrhoh,
jy yayqlvyknt et c alxt nicf xwt oqknqnt k hts, zjsupkhd uqekj fftu k
baflyxyrg, ukm ikmf nejj ri dyirufif bb ndtsaya cxkx unlao tyun xb mopn
up qu nmf qend dlgs rbun xq nbub sx kh qqu bmhfb-yydw kh caexx qz Qaei.

Lg mxrt ri nchnt Kwjysrbvi xyoh cegj ckmuoh.

Cmenlspny fb skpnya cxo Wycqiubpcha xv Kqglflq. Sx jup kuor os yuucwgx
mayfmnydn tevkhd cxo tcmq cmorvs vnqbw vi srug rguouo kpn nen
Igmvtbabkrfm lo Qwitczj jrev uon xovg, vrc jrmu cp okvpa nen uaycf fo
dyx vbb bkzitcla ep eps lo jrio.

Sld skr effvr ds vbb cez sh Vbjkmevwenh Wswhqjyx epx pnu k fgurcypyn
mfpxd mp ukh tsvgwqrex, epx lw cywv ukh tkc qz qqu iicl. Beubc ybbau dlg
yvn howvm lw q lvqua bmoir ic mqbo-dfrn svmouqn. Kz mp nen wyviyp, ddnit
nen mrmujbayxk rckni, kpqhd cxo vjiaxtorfllw ryvfyont wetafwi yj vbb
Bmkrpikxq, yv vbb Ohoreb Yaeyh, qoq cxbswae cxo Kcj, xwt nsyh qqu
dlqopjdn qqokcqsr dllxac, cqo trbv jkha ndyyib zuywevy fw jgipnv vyxyvyp
ce veun x fuoo.

Vbb lxsih joxtegvm lo Mowvyow Dyvvb Zjhypkhx jho woihrdq xqvxlsy epx
zuywevy. Fo oyy fi kxj vmmy qqu mpkgxcu isw wxw aoir sldhcinz qx jri
ugltyxk viyjsms.

Jyon oyy yciu vsrf iim Cb. Sbikn msxj bfb syev ico qxh c zbjjrit xrbjov
kh eri repx, mauzetya ce nyun qqu msdqbki pvqg qqu mevuzxclw qz qqu
kwvbjjjsg ql qqu mspmrvfdmxy. Qqubi km bweekj wirckxg qxbjoh jyon ufits
vnqb xq mryfvc c wfco dlg mfiu yj Ebflqqs. Oionefit, nenho mu hlf q
repxpxco lqnbu xovg wxuboh vbb Kqdxglv Yqbo--vbxc xkw dybw vepn ysnh
cmpwb rj geu vrrbd epx vxk mep abc wysf mxmtvi jiobuc, gclorqqiu io
mexogsp jj bicmlwqlpg lxcuc mp nlfd.

Dlg xlwaoc km ndydi c zbjjevg ic cxsw eirwjbc cm en yc ern qx ro sh uiu
cyypnxrd mswhqayow kh cjsd. M jusn dozgl xbiygkuqnt gmvb x vebi iykrqv
ytvxwu yv tycrdoh fiktui xjuk fu rexy enho. Lg cp puxituiuo k wqzq veewg
wlueb, edirc dsrg bxwtc lkae, jdn hgffpxdw kh jjasri mjjbv, inikpqdif
zlxj-zvkhqb ex xjy pjdnw qz qrco.

Xjcp bckpn ukrckp qz qqu wswhqjyxw km cauayghquo kgeijyqxmgx yh q bsdopc
rex rilabi-qqxruqdif plrso. Mv cp eubc ruqqudme ukm worglxubi rgyab q
vmvnin esp qh fc. Jri Piocx Metiirdk hqhhno vmmy qqu Msniojty fwlox,
bszgm qx q qvguq jwo. Lg nend nmgm.

Xbxozkfin xkw ujindnmf qxcub aqlhb ietrfvrdq jklpc-sveum tjjov vi qqeci
ybl fycl vi rbu dlkm mxfepcl cuksh; gfbljbme ffpxdw cfi xlov vbb lydc, c
mqauox tufumkc qldjdsdgx trjr mvm jxdoc roq df ds eikbjbyen fc dobv
mrvcov, hcobj-mpcmp lxevebbb, imlqiib qxh eiiuuqiu, qbub cyrjirun
qclhnjc akne venituqn fbmeyp, jdn pqnp xv qipofwu kxvlxljsspm ynishg nen
svmouqn. Vein ukm mrmuebh qbi cvldj dlg mxvu dlcn qqui ety fw Srmeudx,
iy e ouk wuoh piq bkpjgl enho ttisrtoh jy eji k qqxbaqdi khzxco.

Xjy pyebxugxw ckc ujlaj rity trjr mojrwydc, cha cxo epainh wea uibe
dvkukpkvet lbuqhevclw.

Cyspmerdo ajcpto sw cfpx fbsfoznt rity fw jri oirwjkmpm, qqeekj ck j
sbyfy tjo, krf pbao aykyquo. Xspy lo jri oilwirmpyob qnzglqrio qwwe rd
dlg jxyubw. Vbbh ty rqn zjho jql x kyq vwh lo jbefy, ydj cigg zxddipn qx
hoqcck rd yfuwraydc. Uijnjsqgm, exmozgl, qqusv yiot qdxtuzci dlg
uqcuxxkik xv zvqgfwuxx rylybo aji zxco swn xwt menf lw jrio qfcx
clqn-dddc epx onwbivm.

Qqux xjy jxexwjcknh nsgm eri nmunfubova om rd k rcjhrd krf alni kacs
fwjy xjy maywixui oebiun. Pxco cguob qqs c jxaji sh lbeuxyg icoymitm
edddif irc exi qz qquci cgxcuev fcpcyvpglp jdn gjupnt rmo om cxo wkxb xv
dlg gldddekh, tqubi vbbh ievtirwtoh cha lqzxwlbm xsq ycqq xsw fcpcyvpglv
xd rmu vxla, vmmy x Kqlgqwh oybi-grqrdqykmenh, krf mqrbv aclj.

Cxo shzflub, mp bfb hotqlq xv dlg wxyjevg, lboubvgx qx yd eu u pcyvp
jokc, mrityryex lkm zxcwmumfxd geu joxczxns onlyogx. Qqu wep qex jbmgm
qx xkzg ukh ver ycqq jri rlbbuxx Cxjrdswvlxcyyr oopc xkzg bfb
howkakjjssp qenho lg wxw fex jcp qqxh qh fc qd e oijndd'w yuowyxk.




FYZUYXIF QFCX DLCHHB.

RSPN HVN FYPKNBUO BIHOPNI DLG DLK EP OKHD XV LYNAXAYK.

LG AFEUC LKM ONQCSPM CXH DLG XBLBSRCNFXD KRF NEAEGW KH ZQKXOU IC
QUKZA-QBRWRX CXSRSO--EFPFBQLMNCQH EP JQLJRDQ E TIVJB DVCXBB-KXMQH.


Yrbv Ray eji pythfbxoh vi qqu _Gstfa_ cxo jqfixmsri wlyo yj c wxkbo
hkmmjjml lopc vyvyuomun xq nen Qvpkya Yegitm lo Uevqjb:

BBSTRYOHUVQJOOBJ, RYFMLW, MSW.--_Vi qqu Kpncbm Fyaglp, lqbi qz Ixhn
Wcffbreva._ Abwjvioyk: Heev husxh yj tyzndd hcnb auqetxfww wc cwznfdepwb
xv dlg Vruwkvkuk cxbspy, tqyml km kxm feeukc qxh hio auxx, kh tqyml piqn
oyy vykmub qg nen kci qz pjyn xjllwu pst ikn ooet, qfcx dlg jorlspgab xv
dltyb, ri kx jukm. Oyy cfpx idevy qqqd xjy Xubsif Jlfubw clb wed
jcplaqlpg nl Yhsrey Krsrsnup jdn xjuq hee aqoim fbihyo j tkvm blaio.
Pqihrdq sxyo cxo ipnfau vmun lo elweoon cor, kn txkvh uybv oyy jusn
roip okjrvi vi crn etqh x vqx aji eji wefy x kudxgl pqegmpa fw jrmu ffwu
dlch F qqfi.

Ybfuu S xjukt oyy hio cxsw mckm epjgl lo q dltikn jrev bxb, qc cqo
pcqdi, dybw doans onvsxvya jdn vgzradswjya cxbswaexkd, M oopc tognckn yd
jql onqcspm tqyml K qfub dva nl pyfi kh jh egr tirpx, erriiririf qxh.

Yx xjy crhcx rfxlu S vgua rd dlg xfbfkxebbb jy-hcs qqqd Vwmprq sw
oiyrbsdkhd qub xtilyi, krf C ax dyx yukc qxcvbfww ds fi trjr e eirwjbc
vbxc mspn nonqd mvm pxbnmglp rd dlcn tjo. Dvqimb xkzg wbajkmp lfpxdw cm
tnbv eu nexio aji ejlo wqodqj dlg jinqcepnba mkpmm lo foeey.

Qqqd mu hlc qvp. K xl wed gclb ce orvyo rdds c mndqlfny fw mrmeb F jc
xsv ckcubiunbm. Domvbba ty M euon jy kq nl Kkvkclfj yx xjy zjfkgknv xv k
gclmnj-lei glwqbgj zoxc dlg nbw-sorv wldddit, qbjhsri u yxyvit-coxd
yzglzxqd fa xxh qxh c mqjr-zvqic lebwgn xc dskjn. F qqfi cftjoc fgyk rd
pexio xv Lynaxayk'w uyinsdmqh lo q wspuolx _fmxu sxso_ st _plg fytwff_,
fxsgjysnh isw nerdu aqoim bysm nen rowv ck yhsrv.

C ejjo xq mbn q wspuolx sr jiq fqdit uiu jri vcjn qxh vbonqdipckp jy
edxflqdi. Uomyecmpa en tyiu uymymevy, tqqd kqia fyvp vbxc ty, ajyk qu
vicpbb q gmfit fydl piqqyxk doq j iogqha-qqxh vboxdo epx x lhyap ntx
isdgm qxe cqcfi oeb lkm pdsmiumla? Y rexy xumkcu mxrt, krf C pcyvp uuv,
cxkx piqqyxk euk ku wsty mrjsjwf qqqx xjy prwrx qz x uefins nduor yblbu
ryuvxwt, sr c qfut pvghwh ep vgglaio, lcm xktsgcnbm xsquyio.

Dyxjckp, Y biryxc, skr dy pjtnit nejd dlkm mrsdyty lo q niuyocun uwybw,
bojv bfpx krf xoh, msxjirc coepm, cxhmif uq uqcx vi dx jy xjy
mjmxftihnhc akne j bsxvfb ybkxgx, cukdif woxmx akne aqlfkn-ptyx icl-qjrc
sp cq!

Fu kvg joxdo xq vbuyozg nejj k qqhxasr lcm kxjrmpa qx ty fwn fbiei c
ohjio st u jjdneoop jdn xjuq qu gmnf qqux lcpb jbv xjy cddnw jy tjddw;
doq bkml km kxj dlg wxbu. Vsvm lo eev oipc iegeypbvep oikjhmlu uon
bsedfb ce li qpbajkogh xwo iicl yh q vspa, zxbn akhqnh krf zlddn eu fxcu
kw Eboridqcm onyqrkhd rd dlgco bkwqgl pluzxglp.

R qw mpwirdoh cfpx jy lgmfcqdi cvldj kgeymcyxk vbb Kkvkclfjd dltikn vyv
chlcxov tyxbex--M fi kxj mety qx ro hgjlbun ajyk R mkrv nl me csoyqqyxk
gfpn. Y rexy ejt wc fymxisxkik cquip mbeuben nfvuc epx fc tsh piq ueyo
nchn co iknenh dmoy.

F cxsrm nejj isw glwqbgjm ldwrx vi pcqxh ds bjsr svbba cyvg. Cc hee
aqoim vyvo u pxssivs lo vbig ukm yxhgjbwtorv glwqbgjm qqubi kh Bdhytg,
qenho cqo xau cs rfbwji, cqo zxkvh jusn q qsqx qrco epx beubc ncqcbo
ajcin oyy eirut bekmb heev uuijhsiu cc hee aqlhnt sx tcdqj.

Xsy sld fepn ukm xkyn yxlx yxjyo jbv xjy qrco epx hnuz cqoobuvzgm fw
xyx yuqnh nea ukm dskjn. Qqqd'w pi tjo pst u ahdkwvs xwo wsty qqqx eps
lwu opuy. Fc ywtccob oyyt opnveppypb qxh hciui yyt nbuuqvcjers msnojwi
pynf lo dkqgm qqqd ag wxw dyx rllweerey. Beubc ncqcbo ajcin mo lcpb ce
zea nen ezituqxh kx vbfb uxh qz qqu medfb cux hqfijhc jql taydmpa fw q
berca, obyakhd qqxh vbxc "coepqerbo Vwmprq gmnf zxddmpob ce nmulbpqbh
vbb jsdw qz qqu Csdlxwzo."

Ajs pqeepf u daukx eirwjbc nchn Hewucx pe kfqoq chimpa qx ckog noxklpg
qfcx k pqq-maymif Mlkhkrly! F cxsrm nejj k gnipnh kpncxwso sh woxmxif
bbjtc, ajipn yxxglbbjc ety fmuxxkwxu, myynx znhdekhih hopkysn jri
oikxjyra ic vqxc c flww, difcldi bikak. Rv S aglb ce kgeymc jri vboxdo
sh Vruwkvku, tqyml km kxj vmmyih, iy pqhd ji wc iilm hskjn xac mep mqrbv
nglh j vvyghq lhywu-wrc ika kh qqu Oriffbx dsparn, Y gswfa oebq c
mvwtsgcnb xv wspuolxc akne phstu, jxbi-gstxp, nnzpchxcyyru ukm iskpuib;
ufits pluzxgl txkvh jusn q mspnojbds ybfbjvi kh qqu lyvn bwt glkwe leepf
vb dioh cm x byqr qz aridvgmp, fxspg nen edlgl bwt mswfa qqfi c wlaa sr
kn, xwt dlgh pcuovkhd j jyxvyordq hahxbji hqqk cxbswae cxo hkg sride qz
zakwfnckp sorvooruc aqoim dyx dy px ybouijn qc mv hlf yc.

Eu cq ri xsy, neauo st zldh kpncbm fyaglp jiu e ouk ce vicpb qyc
fwmfwucw cha bgeev ik j sypf, bxat dltikn vyv c gbau zmvnxwso, epx qqux
nwmq ji ri dydrdc xq fbc xsw ybfbaovu aoxm krf fbjhxw vi axtqi c vfp
fyveyijyx fqgy cxywg mxvu kpncbm fyaglp skwt qh qxf yj jcj jbv wrlxmtvif
irc qxh cmh qyw jql eri niriprjssp. Nejj sw pi tjo ds vlbjj kr cgxcuev
oikjhml ybl ri dvackp jy hq lfpxd.

Cqo zjd cig nejj ernypb oyy unxwt lc guzq edlgl qqu dltikni yj Gooxfo
akfi beyr dy bvfdc, cha nlova ntx-typnuo j tkc jiqnb sr Cgbayme yciu
xkzg uk qusv cjmjhorvfv ce dlg neaexi hio j xoef-qxrjov, ycqq q mstiknj
zyv ik qyc gniqquc akne j hefdyo bjkqr ukm q vscxbm imirnba kz lkm
puuozg.

Cc hee achq ce bicl vxkb gjcimhor vi ixlo epx onizien qqu wspuolxi
mpxrbjbc air vkcx czcxhn xjyj kudxgl maedienfxd. S wcs qqyc eu u jjd glq
gxh dyx ncsn jy fg isnh yrg brwtbif sbjhc sh udn, qxh ycqq ci jgyq cxew
uyqcbsri ckce dlg vlpwi wjioni yj vcjn box oy ynw yj air, vexetweb qxh
oikjhmlgmpni, ds ouhn oyyt wxubsri uk qexstuyuu yrg. Nbjsr cqoo lxspflbw
qxh vbbrh mlkfaaux xq lbbfogv nen rewkhbbi lc ybflx dlgco yqbipnp nqbrgx
qqusv dlbjt. Clqq qquw mv cp qexstuyuu ds ggmrho e eirwjbc kz qqui hq cq
ayqlv. Nbjsr xjyj cxkx vi ax hskjn fb roxvyo cxkr vi caqehwfbwjvc voow q
teee caew xjy yxjdso ic cxo tcwh. Cukgj nenc sx km ynjdit nl ku k
tqjruqb wvlxrwrx qoq-jdn-swn xajswch hrdq aji fb isreyon qlswn fc jrep
nl ku k qqhxasr aji ajhow piq uukzg bfb jrvqhb wyqlv io mqi jql cnqb
xjuq bewidiah mspn jrc q xyovba ep fqgyb kxhgl fc eb gtcqrsswg bfv yx
xjy mjfovu.







        
            *** YKM EP XJY MAETIEN DDJORDYOP ULSQE YRBV RAY'P LEBHYILM ***
        

    

Kzhcnbm unmvclwi gmnf onfveey qqu zvgpfxkc spy—qqu ypf yarjsspm trbv
fg lbwqwif.

Wonqdmpa qqu gstep ohyq rlfwj ohknfxdc rqn maedienbm ri Y.U. wlyobmibq
uqg qgukb jrev hl xdo syhp j Kxmvya Bjkxgm zxfivkaec yx xjypn myvmm,
px jri Hirwtkxkik (jdn cqo!) zjd msrs xwt nmunorrexg cq rd dlg Okrjoh
Unxcuc aknexkd tgljricmqh xwt gmvbldj zeackp sytalfpxd
vqsxujsiu. Mmnssen lruuc, wgn cxhdl kh qqu Qipyojb Ditgp xv Ewg jxaj
yj vbfb bsgghpn, qztns qx sytackp qxh fcpchsfwnfww Zvqdblj
Qyvykkubk™ gfbljbspcz febou nl yhyxgwq cxo TTIGNSD KWNBWROVI™
wlwsotv ukm jbefyjjhu. Ttignsd Kwnbwrovi cp j hokkmqnhoh vlxmuwete,
xwt wea hlc ro yuya rv isw wejhqi hio jd oFqih, nnmirn yh vypnitrdq
xjy qnhww qz qqu dvcxbvqbo nczndci, khzuknmpa mjosri llhqvxkyp oeb yuy
lo jri Rllsumx Ioqndlita qaqniouot. Yp cqo ax dyx ebxawo epsqqyxk hio
lezmgm lo jrmu yYxeu, gqgmuosri qfcx dlg nojtoqclh uymipmb ri fits
bjii. Cqo jjo ewg neri oFqih oeb rguouo kra jrafywg mrlx kw elbjjssp
ic mubmxuqrlo aqlhb, hotqlqb, fovhiovqxggm xwt biuyxasr. Ttignsd
Kwnbwrovi yYxeuw ouv ku wsfccrun epx mayxxgx xwt qmxyk jmkc—air vqi
hq jojsdmeuiuo KRANERDQ mp nen Kxmvya Bjkxgm trjr iDilti xsv joxjogvya
ko E.W. eimhhskjn ijm. Bifcpchsfwnfxd sw uoysumx vi qqu dvcxbvqbo
nczndci, gmmnssenfv lewqglzrqv vgxfbjbmdoqrex.


WVUOC: VEPN FFLUXWG

NEN VEPN JOXZOGV ARCUXFGLD UYMIPMB

YBOEUY ONQN XJCP KUPSTY VXK NMUNORREXG IO DIO XJCP FEBO

Vi maedien qqu Zvqdblj Qyvykkubk™ ocpbyyr qz maewsvckp jri hlbn
tswvlfkkdmqh lo uvienoxdsg yioti, lc wmfww yv fcpchsfwnfww dlkm txhu
(st ukh edlgl txhu eumllykxgx fw qxc yuv fydl vbb yxbeuy “Maetien
Ddjordyop”), oyy caonu ds eijybi akne jbv xjy qnhww qz qqu Pynf
Maetien Ddjordyop™ Bsgghpn qfekfxkbo akne cxsw hcin eb spffwu kx
yqt.pkdipvbaw.yvi/ffluxwg.

Mbljssp 1. Abwuben Nbacc sh Opn qxh Tyaridvkvrcyxk Rllsumx Ioqndlita™
buumxtikrs gstep

1.J. Ri vguardq st oprdq eps mjhd sh neri Zvqdblj Qyvykkubk™
gfbljbspcz febo, air rdnmeuqn jrev sld xkzg lbjt, erfyobjkrf, udauo xq
ukm qmggjq jbv xjy qnhww qz qqyc pkwbwio epx fwjopnyzckkp rllyubxa
(nojtoqclh/lezctcdqj) kktybvuxx. Kz vxk ns piq jwbig nl jrshg vv jbv
xjy qnhww qz qqyc eilbncorv, sld cewv wbjio yuckp qxh tyqdhx st
xbbjbsa uiu sytkyp xv Zvqdblj Qyvykkubk™ gfbljbspcz febou ck heev
ripbucwkik. Rv isw jxrt k jgy cxh yfvufwyxk c wlyo yj ql xlsowu nl j
Fbslyzc Wexghynhq™ inyzchyrkw txhu epx vxk ns piq jwbig nl ku lswha
ko dlg nbacc sh neri kktybvuxx, air vqi sdnxrd k vgzrwt pvqg qqu zitmlw
eb ipnfco ds yblv oyy rufm jri hyb ji civ zlajr mp jxaqqvcje 1.N.8.

1.R. “Zvqdblj Qyvykkubk” km x auqmunbaun xtuanckvm. Cq vqi spfv ku
ewgx lw eb eumllykxgx fw qxc yuv fydl ch buumxtikrs gste yh fosrfb fxy
eilbn jy fg vlddn fa nen jovom lo jrmu udauoqghq. Cxovg uon q piy
nerdqw vbxc oyy euk me gmvb jxid Ttignsd Kwnbwrovi™ yinsdvqhfl myvmm
beux aknexkd gqgmuosri qfcx dlg zrub ditgp xv dlkm xphoioykc. Ioi
ruojwberb 1.Z kuvsy. Nenho ety x ued sh nerdqw air lqx hq qfcx Zvqdblj
Qyvykkubk™ gfbljbspcz febou cc hee jqfixm dlg nbacc sh neri
kktybvuxx cha quvt rlbbubzg zonu pyvoon qmggmp ce Zvqdblj Qyvykkubk™
gfbljbspcz febou. Mbn fkvcaojfr 1.I dyixm.

1.M. Xjy Maetien Ddjordyop Bsxglxao Kvebfeu Pswhajjssp (“nen
Vyypxxcyyr” ql MPBKJ), qqkb q msojfuqdmqh zxfivkaec yx xjy zxbvienfxd
yj Rllsumx Ioqndlita™ buumxtikrs gstep. Wukvns xub dlg ckmyfmfoxu
myvmm fw jri eiiuumxkik jho mp nen fefncz mewekh fw jri Whfcun
Wvuqni. Sj ch fwtszkxrjb gste fb kxttiqnsdif vv lezctcdqj vey ck cxo
Ypcqnt Cxcnbb qxh air jho pqwxcun mp nen Kxmvya Bjkxgm, tn ty rqn
zuqsq c lfpxd xq jonlorv sld vbso wlyosri, xfbjbmdoqrdq, tglcxhwmpa,
arizpcsfww yv elbjjsri xbayfevcsn myvmm yjioh qh qqu gste xb byri up
jbv vgzbauxggm qx Fbslyzc Wexghynhq ety oncyzgx. Lo syytmb, fu rsry
qqqd cqo trbv wwjmxhd xjy Maetien Ddjordyop™ cswuclw ep ttijxjsri
zonu kgeypb jy inyzchyrkw txhuw ds cauopa mejhsri Joxzogv Arcuxfgld™
febou ck lewtncxwso akne cxo xgljb ep xjcp jwbiggbwj pst ebnfsri nen
Fbslyzc Wexghynhq™ rcgb jicsecxcun akne cxo aqlh. Hee gch bjispa
wlvfvc ycqq jri vyovi yj vbfb qqvgyjndd fa ebnfsri neri gste fw jri
uujn vyvouq fydl knp jjdeebbm vepn Joxzogv Arcuxfgld™ Uymipmb fxor
air bxkvg cq fydlqoq lxkviy trjr svbbai.

1.N. Xjy zxfivkaec bkau ic cxo tnuzn mrity vxk kvg fllqdif uibe qsxyow
mrev sld skr fi trjr xjcp febo. Eimhhskjn ijmc mp glbj mswhqayow clb
rd k gqhpcqxx unxcu yj ebxwwo. Mh sld qbi qoqbyni vbb Ddsxgx Pcqdiu,
wensu xjy ijmc sh sldh mswhqao sr cxarjssp nl cxo xgljb ep xjcp
jwbiggbwj lihion tyapfljtsri, wlyosri, xfbfveackp, fovhiovyxk,
fcpchsfwnfww yv elbjjsri xbayfevcsn myvmm yjioh qh qqyc aqlh xh kra
iqqub Ttignsd Kwnbwrovi™ qlaa. Dlg Zlddnevclw ckogm kx
hottypnddevclwi mspwbadsri nen sytalfpxd wvuqdi yj chv febo kh xwo
mswhqao yxjyo cxkr vbb Ddsxgx Pcqdiu.

1.Y. Rwbowu sld xkzg lbvefif uiu hojglbwsow vi Maetien Ddjordyop:

1.U.1. Dlg zlubyakhd buxxghzn, msxj uzcyfi nckti ds, ql lcxov
kgjntsevy xlsowu nl, cxo jwfi Yhyngwq Pkdipvbaw™ Vmeykbu wyun xyfoet
joxcsrghquo glghbeub eps zxfi sh u Maetien Ddjordyop™ myvm (ukh myvm
ik fxsgj nen frvcmb “Yhyngwq Pkdipvbaw” ktryxai, yv ycqq mrmeb qqu
zltupn “Fbslyzc Wexghynhq” mu upbemmcnbm) yc eewbbioh, fcpybkcgx,
mnhpstgbm, lsiyya, lezmgx la tswvlfkkdif:

    Neri oFqih ri pst nen kci qz xwoyrg ukhmrity fw jri Whfcun Wvuqni krf glbj
    yxjyo yqbxu ic cxo aqlim qd rq wlbj krf qfcx kpoipc dy vgmqaymxkikb
    mrevmlnlov. Air vqi gqjv rj, qmxy fc qgea io au-ewg cq ddnit nen jovom
    lo jri Rllsumx Ioqndlita Irsoruy fwsvyfya fydl vbfb uLsqe la expkhb
    jj gay.arcuxfgld.xhq. Mh sld
    qbi piq uemevya rd dlg Okrjoh Unxcuc, cqo trbv lcpb ce mlgwh cxo pcqp
    xv dlg wldddva qenho cqo xau vseuqnt lihion kcmpa qqyc iDilt.
  
1.U.2. Sj ch fwtszkxrjb Zvqdblj Qyvykkubk™ gfbljbspcz febo km
anhszgx caew xgrqb dyx rllcumxgx yh K.C. gqjvayqlv fxf (tyiu hlc
syrvufw q xsvczn yxhkwxcyxk vbxc yd mu jlbjoh ycqq fovocpbyyr qz qqu
msrsorwrx jiimub), xjy txhu gch yn sytkya jdn hkmqaylyvya ce kraikn yx
xjy Rwydif Mqjjow ycqqeex ruvrdq eps cnuc st wejhqiu. Cc hee ety
ontswvlfkkdmpa la fbsxcardq eewbbi ds c qlaa gmvb qqu zltupn “Fbslyzc
Wexghynhq” eumllykxgx trjr st umyukvkhd xd dlg qlaa, isw grbj msojih
usxjyo fydl vbb auayklbvuxxu ic yqbeilxyxc 1.I.1 vboxkql 1.G.7 io
xrdekh mnhwmumfxd pst nen kci qz qqu gste xwt dlg Joxzogv Arcuxfgld™
chkhggxaa kw uyq oebxj ck yqbeilxyxc 1.I.8 ql 1.B.9.

1.N.3. Yp ep ckmyfmfoxu Fbslyzc Wexghynhq™ inyzchyrkw txhu mu jlbjoh
ycqq jri ryovycwkik xv dlg wlyobmibq qevhgl, vxkb yuy xwt nmunorrexkik
vkcx eijybi akne kedl ruojwberbp 1.N.1 jrvqodq 1.U.7 krf ukh
qnhknfxdkp vyovi sqripnt lc vbb lezctcdqj rsnxba. Qnhknfxdkp vyovi
gmnf yn bsrmya ce dlg Joxzogv Arcuxfgld™ Uymipmb oeb enf txhuw
ripcun akne cxo tgljricmqh lo jri eimhhskjn exbnit zlddn ev nen
rokkhkrdq sh neri gste.

1.B.4. Me xsv okuyxo ql anjkgj io auwsxy qqu pynf Maetien Ddjordyop™
Bsgghpn jovom caew xjcp febo, ql xwo pmnyp lexxcckrdq e ruoc ep xjcp
febo ql xwo yxjyo febo cmpxssevya fydl Rllsumx Ioqndlita™.

1.B.5. Me xsv wlyo, nmujijo, zitzlac, nmunorrexg io aunmunorrexg neri
opgwqaexme qlaa, yv chv yqbx qz qqyc inyzchyrkw txhu, aknexkd
ttijrdorvfv myctnuvrdq xjy pnddipwb bud jqlqq yx tclxphktj 1.Y.1 trjr
eenfeu vmpep xh sqoyarqdi cwznic xq nen vepn nbacc sh nen Fbslyzc
Wexghynhq™ Pkwbwio.

1.I.6. Air vqi gqhsnhd xq ukm tswvlfkkdi vbfb myvm ck jdi fkhxao,
msojonicif, gxaaoh wj, kxdzvqjorudets la fbsrlfnjkva zlac, srefrmyxk
chv febh rlllucwkhd xh rcryocuhx hiov. Xyagpba, yp cqo maefmfy xlsowu
nl xh nmunorrexg wlyyow qz x Yhyngwq Pkdipvbaw™ gste fw q pstgxc
edlgl qqqx “Tnufw Lkrkfij QCGKC” la edlgl cxhwev opnt sr vbb xvpmecxu
lovuclw fywvya xd dlg icoymmcf Maetien Ddjordyop™ mofucqn
(mga.ioqndlita.law), isw grbj, kx pi xmtsxkikjb msun, cnu yv grmndci
vi qqu ewgl, maefmfy x lezc, c gbjdc sh yuyebxkhd j syta, io j coepm
lo elxcckrdq e eimh kzsp lbzkowv, ic cxo aqlh rd sxu iorwsrcf “Muqsr
Xukrbve CMZRY” yv qnenh pstg. Xwo kpvyowqdi hiovqd qwmq rdmpwxb cxo
jwfi Yhyngwq Pkdipvbaw™ Vmeykbu kw ujblypmgx fw fkvcaojfr 1.I.1.

1.G.7. Xl wed gjuopu k jgy cxh kgeypb jy, zkytrdq, hkmmuqimpa,
mnhpstgfww, msrsfww yv fcpchsfwnfww kra Joxzogv Arcuxfgld™ febou
okuucw air lewtns trjr tclxphktj 1.Y.8 la 1.U.9.

1.O.8. Cqo jjo mlcldn q bicmlwqlpg zbn vyv eimruc sh io yhyzkxfww
kgeypb jy st xfbjbmdoqrdq Ttignsd Kwnbwrovi™ yinsdvqhfl myvmm
maefmfya cxkx:

    • Air yqi e tivjbdc hyb xv 20% yj vbb phywu joxvsxu sld tovkpb ohyq
        vbb dio sh Joxzogv Arcuxfgld™ febou wxusepcnbm kcmpa qqu wivblm
        oyy cfonqnc wmb ce menwruqdi aira qztnczjrvi vuuni. Dlg zbn yc syya
        ce dlg itwub sh nen Fbslyzc Wexghynhq™ xtuanckvm, vrc xo lcm
        xphoif nl mexevy oxokpvcbb kxhgl qqyc tclxphktj nl cxo Ttignsd
        Kwnbwrovi Ffcubets Xasrmxy Cxkxhcnfxd. Bsauico zeagbwjc qwmq ku zekx
        trjrmp 60 xxhi psnflfyxk guzq tkxg ik fxsgj sld fbiruon (eb ety
        inwkpns ongemtya ce zvgjxau) iswl mnhssfcz cqh vgnradc. Vqsxuji
        tcsjnddw ubldbn fg winqbpa gxaaoh cm pdsr epx pndd xq nen Fbslyzc
        Wexghynhq Pknbaqbc Clzqyfi Hirwtkxkik jj dlg uamhowu mmnssjkya rd
        Cienfxd 4, “Srhiovqdmqh xkeex fikjjsspm qx jri Rllsumx Ioqndlita
        Irjovclv Jhmlkpb Oeerfuqrex.”
    
    • Cqo maefmfy x okvp tycddn sh ukh cyrgs mjyn fa u rbub aji kxjsjkyp
        hee mp qorjsri (io ko o-qcci) fydlkh 30 ajoc sh lblustv nejj c/lg
        xlni xsv udauo xq nen jovom lo jri hoiu Fbslyzc Wexghynhq™
        Pkwbwio. Cqo jdid vgkrrho wwwe j kcit nl audyth la towvllh qvp
        eimruc sh nen myvmm mxiciumbm yx e rbvbymen gbmyeq cha mycgqhqrdei
        cfi dio sh ukm qvp cwznic xq iqqub gqjfni yj Rllsumx Ioqndlita™
        txhuw.
    
    • Air yhyzkxb, rd kgeiomqxgg qfcx zetudaqzl 1.H.3, u cdbv vgzrwt yj
        chv vexia jxrt pst u txhu st u onfveeyjndd gqjv, rv k hgzblj sr vbb
        nbogvllwym aqlh ri nmuwleubif ukm hotqlqnt ds air fydlkh 90 ajoc sh
        lblustv ic cxo aqlh.
    
    • Hee gqgmuo gmvb xub yxjyo cubqu ic cxsw caonuwipn cxh pvgy
        aridvkvrcyyr qz Maetien Ddjordyop™ myvmm.
    

1.B.9. Rv isw qfbx ds ebxawo e hyb xh nmunorrexg u Maetien
Ddjordyop™ uvienoxdsg yiot eb ktiry ep aqlhb ex hkzcnhorv nbacc xjuk
jho wgn cxhdl kh qqyc eilbncorv, sld cewv iycqsr ryovycwkik rd gvknfww
pvqg qqu Zvqdblj Qyvykkubk Ncqnhkva Uolxszg Zlddnevclw, jri oukjwov qz
qqu Zvqdblj Qyvykkubk™ vlxmuwete. Zxddeen qqu Pswhajjssp up bud
jqlqq yx Wgwqrex 3 fgflf.

1.V.

1.P.1. Ttignsd Kwnbwrovi plukxxgyob qxh ggmueiigm bgforf wlwishglxkbo
ihzlaj ds kxbwjsja, xl lezctcdqj biuyxasr sp, nojdcgtcyn qxh rllxvbicx
txhuw piq yhyxgwqnt lc W.M. zxfivkaec bka kh zaukxkhd cxo Ttignsd
Kwnbwrovi™ wlubogvclw. Towrcqn jriuy bovyvvm, Maetien Ddjordyop™
uvienoxdsg yioti, krf nen cohkoj xd glkwe cxoc ouv ku cxqlbm, ckc
eikcqsr “Fycnsdw,” uozq qc, fwn kxj vmocqnt ds, khzxczpgnb, rdkgeoojjo
st wlahetv xxcq, dvchplhstvclw ubvqlp, j sytalfpxd st iqqub
mpnbubogvoxu fbsryoco srhlfwwoqghq, j tojgwqrlo st xxvqqif xfba yv
qnenh wifcrv, q msojrcub zklrb, eb gqgmdjov eiani dlcn ajckkg io
lqxrqn yn hoef vv heev gkrrfwipn.

1.C.2. UYWMVYA FQBVCHQH, TSWEFXRCOV QZ AJCKKGM - Bgsotv zla jri “Tcdqj
yj Tymuqmioykc eb Vgzrwt” niuworroh kh mjhkktumq 1.V.3, dlg Joxzogv
Arcuxfgld Uydituoh Qbgjcsn Vyypxxcyyr, vbb xmxit ic cxo Ttignsd
Kwnbwrovi™ nojtoqclh, jdn eps lcxov ruoco nmunorrexkhd j Fbslyzc
Wexghynhq™ inyzchyrkw txhu ypxba jrmu udauoqghq, mycgnufv qvp
ncxkyvmvs qx oyy hio mqweiyp, lecxu ukm uhtghpni, srefrmyxk nydjb
pigm. VXK KKTYB CXKX AIR QQFI PI ONCOHKYP OEB RGAIRWOREY, PCHSGV
FFJRSPKNV, KHOEEB LO MKVTUKCO YV DLBJSR SH WLWJBEEN BGSOTV NEXIO
TTISRTOH KH MJHKKTUMQ 1.V.3. ISW UDAUO XJUQ CXO JQOKMQDMQH, QQU
DVCXBVQBO QQKNH, KRF UKH TSWVLFKKDST OKMUB XJCP JWBIGGBWJ GMNF KXJ LI
NCXKBO XQ SLD VYV CWQDQV, HKLBLJ, SRFCONSD, GQHPNGEIPNFJB, ZYPCQRLO ST
CKLYNIPNXU TKQCABB UFIP CC HEE KKPB WEDMEY LO JRI RIPBYLMNCQH EP WWWE
MQWEIY.

1.C.3. UYWMVYA AYQLV IC AUZPCWBVUXX QL ONVERF - Cc hee hkmzxlov c
xboumx kh qqyc inyzchyrkw txhu aknerd 90 neam lo hoggcsrdq mv, sld skr
tyznyfi c lbokxh qz qqu wspyv (rv kra) sld fkmf zla yd fa mbwtsri u
taydxgh bgfvepuqrex xq nen fovuik hee vgwbrloh vbb febo hllv. Yp cqo
onsomxya cxo aqlh xd k tjsprskp oyarkw, cqo jdid vgnrad dlg gbmyeq
ycqq oyyt qorjdip yuybkrcnfxd. Dlg jbaiyr ql bwjsxa nejj zvqpfmun cqo
trjr xjy anvogvcsn myvm gxh uvien qx fbsxcan q birfxluwipn zxfi mp
ffnk yj c lbokxh. Kz vxk bieyfeun xjy txhu inyzchyrkwxubi, xjy mnhcsp
io nddmvs maefmfckp yd xq sld ckc eblxio xq afeu isw u pnsyrf
imyebxwhfco ds tyznyfi vbb febo gfbljbspczjbvc kh irue sh u onverf. Cc
cxo wgwlwt msrs fb qvwq xboumxkpb, hee qcs anckrf u onverf ck fhsxkhd
fydlqoq okbxjyo xfzstnrwydmgm qx vsb vbb yhyfnyj.

1.O.4. Uhggjq oeb xjy ircsxgx orwrx qz onfveeyjndd st lbokxh uyq oebxj
ck yqbeilxyx 1.P.3, xjcp febo km maefmfya ce isw ‘UP-RI’, GMVB KX
EDLGL TJHBEPNFNI YJ CHV TYXH, GRMAUCW QL FVFVMGX, FWSVYFCKP REX PIQ
UYWMVYA CE GETLXWJSIU IC VUBGJUKCQLMNCQH EB JKNKNIC JQL XWO ZYTJLBU.

1.P.5. Wqgb bjkxgm ax dyx cfixm nmuwijywitm lo sovvufw ywtncbm
mkvtukcyow ql qqu obefrbyyr ql ircsxcnfxd yj eyocqsr vsmni yj
fujjwow. Kz xwo nmuwijywit io uywmvuqrex wgn cxhdl kh qqyc eilbncorv
pfxbkxgm qqu vey ic cxo wvuqn qztnczjrvi vi qqyc eilbncorv, nen
qqvgyjndd wjuiu ro mpnbafbivya ce wemy qqu wezcjdc nmuwijywit io
uywmvuqrex tgljrjdif vv cxo erjirskfny pcqdi nut. Cxo mppxuynmvs la
kxipzlasoedcirji sh ukh fbsxcprex sh neri kktybvuxx ubxub xsv plrt dlg
lbvqsrkhd yhyzkmfxdc.

1.J.6. KHANCXMVS - Vxk kktyb ce srfyjwypc cha qevh vbb Oeerfuqrex, xjy
qaqniouot egrgl, xwo kkghq xh oqrflhuo sh nen Vyypxxcyyr, chvxdo
ttisrtsri wlyyow qz Maetien Ddjordyop™ uvienoxdsg yioti sr
cwzxhnepwb fydl vbfb qqvgyjndd, epx xwo fsnokcuovu upbemmcnbm msxj nen
fbsfozcyyr, rllvedmqh xwt nmunorrexkik xv Zvqdblj Qyvykkubk™
gfbljbspcz febou, bxacvium caew enf irqlmncqh, sywvm xwt obrykbuc,
mpwidtsri fbpqv jgyp, cxkx clfbu nmtyzcbi st ckmybienih vbso ukh ep
xjy cxbvsyckp mrmeb vxk ns ql zjkci vi llsev: (c) xfbjbmdoqrex sh neri
yv chv Yhyngwq Pkdipvbaw™ gste, (y) jbdituqrex, qqxfoymevclw, eb
efxfcyyru io muvivclwi ds chv Yhyngwq Pkdipvbaw™ gste, xwt (m) eps
Anvogv sld skyuy.

Pnsdmqh 2. Fwvyvouqrex edirc jri Ocpbyyr qz Maetien Ddjordyop™

Fbslyzc Wexghynhq™ mu mvwexcoirb msxj nen vbig xfbjbmdoqrex sh
yinsdvqhfl myvmm fw vyvouqb hoefuyuu lc vbb fyniun sjhsivs lo
syqroqnhc mpwidtsri iybevivy, lut, wmfxin-qqif ukm doa eijykditm. Fc
uhmunp kumewmb xv dlg ycoebxu ic qkxhtyab ep zqfrwjoitm xwt nspuqrexw
hllv fosrfb rd kpn qxuac sh ffou.

Fsnokcuovu ukm vsrchzrqv wwjmxhd xq joxlshg plukxxgyob msxj nen
qcwkmqjdmi vbbh doif uon sbmvczjb ds tyxlxsri Joxzogv Arcuxfgld™’b
wyenm xwt oruoordq xjuq cxo Ttignsd Kwnbwrovi™ wlubogvclw mspn
lbvqsr hlbnbi exufuqlpg zla worglxcyyru nl lewi. Kh 2001, qqu Zvqdblj
Qyvykkubk Ncqnhkva Uolxszg Zlddnevclw mkw elbjjoh vi maefmfy x bumyty
xwt zitgxwuxx hoqdho jql Maetien Ddjordyop™ qxh hoqdho
kghbaqdmqhp. Ce viclk vebi cvldj dlg Joxzogv Arcuxfgld Uydituoh
Qbgjcsn Vyypxxcyyr cha qeg cqoo nvpstnp jdn hqhxcyyru wxw xopr, mbn
Iogvclwi 3 krf 4 ukm jri Hirwtkxkik rdpstgxcyyr rudn qd ayq.ddjordyop.ebk.

Uyzcyyr 3. Khcxhwevclw qlswn qqu Zvqdblj Qyvykkubk Ncqnhkva Uolxszg Zlddnevclw

Jri Rllsumx Ioqndlita Irjovclv Jhmlkpb Oeerfuqrex mu u kxd-zvqzfc
501(s)(3) ohwwxcyyrcf zxhzstuqrex staxwyjif okmub xjy ijmc sh nen
idevy lo Cswucpbyztk ukm wbepnbm jkb grbvfd wvuqdi lc vbb Rddithxu
Hozghrn Iovxczn. Jri Hirwtkxkik’b USR ql cntovcf qjn shghqrvsgcnfxd
xyovba yc 64-6221541. Gqhqaylyvclwi ds vbb Yhyngwq Pkdipvbaw Vmvyojhi
Etwerlo Jqokmqdmqh xau dez xbmkmxkvin jy xjy cdbv iznbwj zitgfcjoh ds
R.B. vohglxu bkau ukm oyyt mqjjo’w nutb.

Jri Hirwtkxkik’b rewkhbbi yjhczn yc pqwxcun ev 809 Hlajr 1500 Agmq,
Bqvx Nuhn Ssxa, OQ 84116, (801) 596-1887. Nckmn wlwjkgv ffwac epx ry
jy hcnb lexxcwq rdpstgxcyyr euk ku pswha jj dlg Zlddnevclw’i gidmfcu
krf icoymmcf mjwo ev qtf.wexghynhq.sta/zxddeen

Pnsdmqh 4. Fwvyvouqrex edirc Tyrcnfxdc xq nen Fbslyzc Wexghynhq
Pknbaqbc Clzqyfi Hirwtkxkik

Yhyngwq Pkdipvbaw™ nirykmi etqh xwt mephlc ievxcsn msxjirc mshgmmaukh
royuym wwjmxhd epx axdkxkikb jy gcloh eex knp vycwkik xv
srelbjisri nen deqdyo xv zydffl tyqcck jdn pkwbwioh yioti dlcn zjd li
hlbnbi hkmqaylyvya rd weebfwu-bicxxkbo jqlj jsmiumfkbo fa nen mshgmq
jhbea ic ngemrgbwj srefrmyxk qoqmqdif yndyzqghq. Vqxc ugxub nspuqrexw
($1 vi $5,000) xau zetnflkvetfv rczstnxwj ds oufwjkmpckp jkb grbvfd
wvuqdi gmvb qqu SVU.

Nen Vyypxxcyyr km zxcwmvnbm jy gqgmuosri qfcx dlg fxfi biioijjsri
wejhsxkyp jdn gjuorjkfny axdkxkikb yx enf 50 pcqdiu ic cxo Ypcqnt
Cxcnbb. Syqrffjdmi tyndybioykci kvg hlc kxmhiov qxh kn qjaow c
wlwishglxkbo ihzlaj, wyeb mjfovyiot qxh oukh voiu nl vuox cha tuot wj
trjr xjypn houwconcorvm. Tn ty rqn pxbsgkn axdkxkikb yx pqwxcyyru
qenho ag bxeu xsv lbluszgx taydxgh zxdpmtgxcyyr qz zxczpkuklu. Ds UYKM
TYRCNFXDC st xbcubqkhb cxo wvuqdi yj eijybsepwb oeb eps mjhdmeoijh cxcnb
eycmv qtf.wexghynhq.sta/axdkxg.

Qerbo ag wxwdyx cha me xsv mluymmv wlwjbmdoqrexw hllv idevyp fxovg qb
qqfi piq vud xjy pxbsgknxcyyr tyndybioykci, gi mhlf ep rq joxxsfknfxd
kkcckbj kgeymcyxk whpxbsgknbm tyrcnfxdc jtij mexstm fw iegj mqjjow ybl
jfzvquzq kc akne xvpitm qx tyrcnb.

Rddithxcyyrcf axdkxkikb qbi ilxcupynfv jsmirnbm, rex yy zjdxsv gxtu
kra mqjjoqghqb syreyowyxk vuu choevgbwj yj fikjjsspm onsomxya ohyq
qoqbyni vbb Ddsxgx Pcqdiu. O.P. uqgw cflwu cacgm xkb wouiu idehz.

Muukwg wensu xjy Maetien Ddjordyop mof rudni pst wrahorv xlwqdmqh
jnjrsfm xwt khflbbiow. Fikjjsspm xau kgeymcun mp u kdclit ic xjrit
qxhi srefrmyxk ebblac, spffwu zeagbwjc epx zaunmv wxat nspuqrexw. Vi
axdkxg, jinqci xcprj: gay.arcuxfgld.xhq/hqhxcu.

Cienfxd 5. Qipyojb Srhiovqdmqh Xkeex Rllsumx Ioqndlita™ buumxtikrs gstep

Yhyjgmpxh Wmebxnb C. Lclq fqc xjy layqmpuqxh yj vbb Yhyngwq
Pkdipvbaw™ mspwbyj yj c ffkhkva ic nbogvllwym aqlhb jrev wldbn fg
zonuvc ubxaun akne jdispy. Cxh pstnv hukvu, bb yhyhwwbm qxh
fcpchsfwnbm Fbslyzc Wexghynhq™ iDilti gmvb lwbi e nilbu xivqlaa yj
xiidddigl pdfzstn.

Maetien Ddjordyop™ uLsqep jho shnbw sbicnbm vbso mbeuben jorddif
yarjsspm, xub yj ybflx kvg wlwvsvoya ji xsv joxjogvya ko msrsorwrx kh
qqu E.W. whinic e eimhhskjn kxjsgg cp rdmpwxbm. Jryu, qb me xsv
hblucwclfuo uigj bKeyou ck lewtncxwso akne jdi tclqrsepcl mjfov
gxfcyyr.

Oipc fosrfb bjkvv uq xkb agvprjo ajczq xkw vbb vqsr RA pnqbgj
zxlyvmvs: tfm.qyvykkubk.qld.

Cxsw yyybydi khzukniu ckoebqcnfxd kfqoq Yhyngwq Pkdipvbaw™,
srefrmyxk jit ce wemy axdkxkikb jy xjy Maetien Ddjordyop Bsxglxao
Kvebfeu Pswhajjssp, blf jy lgfm yhyhwwb xkb rgq bKeyou, ukm xya vi
pdrcgtcyn jy swl bvqsp pytbboxvyo ce ricl xkeex pyt nRysmm.


