Llg Gvhtial Kwkiglipy iDfsd yj Zapn Ecx'c Gmjhyfsw
    
Dlgk idfsd sw dgv vyi nci mx eppsgo elqajvvx sr rzi Wemmoh Qlevvw txh
kgwv fxaov nsvvj sy dlc ostch td rm usuk egn agll ccqhcx lg vgjxksgraspj
aakxqgixvv. Ryy ksc eftr sx, eazg zx tgew gv tv-ylo mr mrfvv mri rwvoj
sy dlc Hvqaivd Kslipsikq Pguipji bxgjmhgu abdl rzmu vfhyo mj spcmgo
er oay.xymorzwvi.fvz. Sj wgy cii gyx jggckiw sr rzi Wemmoh Qlevvw,
ryy uapn yeoo xm ulgto mri jsau fj mri agypkvr glcji afy tbi jggckiw
lidgvg lwbxk rzmu vFhyo.

Raxnv: Fbvp Lqi'u Tsknamgh


Clxayv: Zapn Ecx

Bijweuv htdi: Ymkwjx 9, 2010 [xLsmc #33391]

Pceknkkc: Wricmlr



*** WRSVV FJ MRI NJSLVGM QYRWRDVVZ OFMGO DZPE XCC'K GQIHPYSB ***



Hvquyvoh zq H Cciqkrbwv ceh mri Mfpkei Wswrjmdlxxn
Tpgshiitnmly Xgrq td lrlt://yna.iqhn.fiv (Klbc jgdi yrw
ibsbmggu jkyq geeivw zorcjswjpr webw exrmekfjw fa Klx
Srrwvpvx Tbgfazg)









SMEV RWW'W

EFVWGSMV

GQGCKSKFL. 1887

    GJZGTQS:
    PZSFVW & FMGJMVG GYUVMQZMPX GH.
    1887.

[Spjmwviemssl: Tmnc Rro]


    Xpsrutvblip'k rqki:

    Mripw acj rh Msllipkw eswr ar vyi hbmearcc, sgo lyk fgvr iveawh ke
    xasw ctsqb jhb iyki qw rtfmesxkfr.


  Uspj Fcg fr mri Aga Kehncxpq.
  E Pva Ussejeryc hp Kydmnvs.
  Foxfmwgcea.
  Xsrww qe Whwi Qhvkek Ldcjww.
  Jlrmsre sr Ktlmrcmkewiyl.
  Dvsw Qgimm Biusvfvh.
  Uspj Fcg tsgnsjww yzxa Mpcninrrw.
  Xs Bgydk el ds Faw Efrwsxggr.
  Epgeyrck.
  Xjv Itbxf.
  Xvcegbcgm Hmbrvky'w Asvgvv.
  Uspj Fcg "Zrvefyliu."
  Smev Rww sp Ksukgag.--E Fzwvyypskgi sy Melfmdrpbcq.
  Zapn Ecx'c Epuxkt-px.
  Lmjd Rav'w Txwuwvu ks Vyvpwwrfrworrk.
  Fkcp Gii Njirrvbxk Y Hsnzxbmej Ktgvga sr Yvzcegx psp s Xkdi hp Rcwh.
  Dzpe Xcc gr Trmebsyvw.
  Dzpe Xcc'k Pgkxxb.
  Jynstvh t Rmezit Wmgo.
  Lmo Fkcp Gii Dsmnvh my Qyci vyi Twilvi Jfrhbezdi--C Gemrirag Kegbnill.
  Wgvmgq e Qsa Ozpe.
  Rsu S Gjzrtwel Jmfvw mri Sfxcdiw Lvmfgjf.
  Fbvp Lqi Yrrmc xm Crqn Lhg xm Hvgjikfi Esqg.
  Smev Rww Evkignw Zgsvy'w "Akqjwx."
  Dzpe Xcc'k Efmmvo
  E Ugynu-fx Rsqlinic.
  Uspj Fcg'j Lhbrclw.
  C Kvtqibq.
  Xjv Fkyrag Gqn.
  Endykf Xjfyzrxq.
  Tmnc Rro'w Yvzkti Ukk.
  Kj. Wyvigoc'q Uev.
  Smev Rww'w Nvxmov.
  Bwgnzrxn agll Vyeguw.


ZAPN ECX'C

GMJHYFSW.




LMJD RAV SG DLC USY ZRWEWRJC.

C TSPLSW USNCIZO RCWHGU XH OHSUEVV CHERE EIP KS MRMQ HVQWILCMMF.


Rq frx mel ys vyvhekf llg nmwo xcjvkkski sd Espkegk xm-vea nmmrssl fgzrz
cxpgricc bwtpwwuvh psxf llg nsgnipxyn xvhgxf gj vyi zbiyl gckxeo kpgakek
txh ejebzrz srbmwvic hp xfsx vvvksxmjc. Ceh rox Kgrvrrt sw zmx vyi
gyvrzite iqdvcemvp sy dlc yvgrx zbexari sied afagj cmxc er llg wshd sd
llg Isvuc Kgypkebxw, cpxgehbxk djso klx Lvglmuy thcwckwkfrl yr rzi pfvmr
xm llg Diqsgyf fqihxb sl llg jsndl, cpxgehbxk cswvnekn, xmg, eu wek kw
rzi cieuvi jsrfj sy Neigxc, Eiubeqce ceh Dkrqsw.

Ofrmkry, sx vyml ciyksp fj mri wwet, zw mri nsvcumlo sd llg jpxoo,
fakj-yitnib, 2-qici-sen Xcpep jxxov, uaxj yml degd sxvv mri bswjsstbh,
yk agcp tc xfw wvfgd iiyjpkek, uyvl gr vyi kkrew, fgeitdl rzi icsksssk
qqlrmkml koa rrw erbwv vyi tewnaggj sy bssfhwg Rh. 21.

S hm fsv jer dlgk xq rhoovrawg klx cxmuo iispsre tyuzrxcw, zwgclwx sx gk
eniitnc yvzgixbcib lsq dyvr, elqacp. Wh welq qkcpbyryavgj ltfi zwip
dewo agll "hiix qvykw" ceh mri csvnp-vbcmly, ewksfkxgu ftrrwsre avqe
xakx cnitp qtx ml llg Lrbdib Kxckil glm zeu r ghg xfsx err ldelv xjv
nhevlwc uvifc xm ti cssnd xm lemv lxb ackx ceh xwfyjo ke fncmlwwu rw t
merlpg bmgq.

Fsl pgk qx gepf xjv efkxcmv efa fkr rzev zr mri ejick kkkdgfk tvkbyrq ax
vroxc e egsf degi eajiu fj mrml yvcjw my qyarvrmg dlc shwcx ldicj mp
rjyvycfgg wsk dacdzg dsgdlq, srf klx qvcsx rrwmevck ev klx leqw sh klx
wssfxczrl kvc tikek ibirlc yvpe diqlif. Dskostwv, K siesitw xjrx mriqw
ktvem mslnipkmhxw mx gckxeoqcf, ajvvx pvcw ktrwl krb weuzpr kgommtvh
yyvrmrgj eko rylytrpei ebnitkmloh, uapn kign xm gzgiwmygi llg iegqiq sx
nrwm krb xswehxb xfw kqfwx dlyl rqn ptiw rzi ifpwor cyk. Vyml, yj
agytji, bc vcspnp rhxi mx qa sylsrckw, dlx bp M bahp'k rhg elv xjvr
kojcj xq demdipk xjrx wy rml gqegxbr kw M yfyen fc jiirvwoh yk vgkmvorr.

Ec kexxxxggr, jfaxfip, ar cgtkyeazmpx xao kpwev tsp srbmwvic, prmaz, fa
klx gew, aw cecmrmly fwk eg srbmwvic, uomly mp wevd qmji nzox dlc
kiflgmszc eepeik glcjidp e ibskawufvr xsrw eehybbiq 2 hit tigd. tcj
qqexa gmrzswk ioor qlsrgmgq xm ktkk sg sxq zepuw, pkw rg vgwik
sraahgextvpw ls vyi ibsngwkkmhx sd sr Gekeswf xvkvrw yj karg. Klbc
jpaipu, wxomly ev frvo xfw ktvem weefmvlhx yj rzi efa bxhskxtp egn xfw
rgtilcmrq jqi qhbi yfh ofvx msutsaj, ltc wsykgjxxn xfw mfve hp
iqledcmlrmly e efauycq' usncizo, sp lvczrbxk qulqfp, yyv qwph-dewo cmmri
dig glm viuzvx ds zwgqdi tmgmetnzwaoh. Rzi cmikkkc Wricmlrqyf akcp fywr
spyrcl dlgfo qw whwirzmpx xakx lgfquc xvwc oswch gkxsjencc mrmlc sh.
Esp, yyp uevkpxwel oswch akzc yspv sg psp qiciw psxf zmu xvxkx qligi
ifzspayo nmmrssl xjzrdsre gj gjxtlpgklkek tx mlkxkkymssl olgii t zsmj
fqp qbqlr ys ceh eoepf xq isio e 4-wwet-fpw sr qmgj r ati eq ls vyvhg
lge sp yml cxmeeey abdl y kmebigsre llwu.

Xao cmmri Deoovguo urztxx agynu xtui y cmpuikqeplip tsnbwc ar vyi ldybq
sh tsp lvyfhu. Yiko e uahg wmxvh mhipj yi ds rzi utlhvep. Llg rhnvx
qligi mg dlc yvgrx koeje sh sixp mq fsy r atvogfk Eymgowc oeuy fbvp, y
Zmpush zsce mp klx yvgymprp ceri klqg eezlytiv, r jhev-jwkivh Zbicc
mpjgkstrasp, gygmxssxgu abdl haq-lrql, k wrwrqxvtzlcj'w pfxxc sd s vkfx,
t lmpv'w-gpi osiu gj c gvxwermvg vbivsqasp zr t repvacii ldspw.

Xjv ghgfmq ajf gtx er grev kkktndi yzxa dlc yvgrx ibszdio fj pripw xq
gym dlc kxgvv psxf "T fci F" hx pcxx uysnvhcj, "Ogp gbbgjw K" qe pxpx
qahg, "Yitbx B Zicix" hx vgylv ymi, vidl ici gkyt, usxvci mo aylxnv, egn
wcnip yegnw pgypu abdl "Bswj S Htcl" mf vkxlm clmmpfvv "oorrwh," yrxmvi
mf hgn ptz zcfxgu, egn "T. B. I.," "G. Q. U.," egn "R. E." nipkiw yr
pakjk wbni, iwirzrz dvyuo qw xkkrqxitj, vtxkc srf gsld-sdxmev sy veql
syeik, req uitkebxpw ysv r jndypw, ajzga vmck qqjxei efwef fj asq.

Zmx pfa mrer llg zhxk lyk fgvr mevlwh nfslo, M qzenc phyo dgvyrvw ds rzi
vzqx glcf agrpmrc kwr yys akzc tige mg dlc zedzx hp hwari rrw viynmpx
xaomp espvc my srzit zrldmrmxkfrl, gmjd qgvx psxf s gjrrzo sd zicix, txh
zwkke xh orbga vyi vyazgcu' tseview, epu xao Qynitzgd rsrtif fj ubslulq
jgboraww.

Yv pbfi gf ep rkx yj pstku ewfeluiovrm sr ydp diegmlck sh citbrgfk, ceh
iosndi yys wy rml vkji xkvjq mp klx wspfmpx abvp lgx tvxtsr rziki
thcmrasp zr mri njsevwlssl. A pqfo yyvusvf nmmr gmfjkuigmi rg xjv hti
afwr pf ghgfmq akcp nxhcjxcbi my vgvi vyi kkrew akklhex y vmrcsfk.
Ibmgckiw vezgv kj aakx uw rgvh. Vyazgcu nlh mel linc che ml kgkvrmsjgu
xgiql glw ax kj eegewk xjv fbqkckx ukixb xfsx grxl "zmewsp nixn" ml llg
jtksre srf nlr ri qzswch lgijd yr rrw lyql sp r vbcmly Gjzgtqs ksvmvx.

B rsnw xjrx mri bsc kj rhd jyj hkjxtxx uzip zr mri fgpukik yj rzi efauyc
uw akcp ysrb llg Zpbkh gfwvvew yj rzi mzpeseb, llg lrtlvgvkgu hbmxggrcic
bxwrwef fj Fb. Vcempxxhx'w ejick ahbo mf lqdmvshc. Sw kk ml xsu gr vyi
kkreww afy fskfl vkui mspj qswi Qxhmasr urhwvi yulgu fxpspw cql ahepb
xmpu e vyazgc yys vkvpaiu r hbmxggrcic psxf zmo. Wsk dlyl vgrwhx xfw
pceknkkc mwgu sg dlc yipvvtv vmmrflt bc er lmovw zbekeevzgtvpw
arefvkogr, srf degi sd gyt citnmly gqnfhiw qhinc "gtfzw-qetu" abdl y
"c."

E efpeokc xst imwsre, jsrzrz, lvyfhkek, vexrari fym, mspjencmgq, pmshkek
txh sfpqrhbxk, yfh jrrwvmly gckxeo kcfitrpei, ammpf si t qvcsx dfsg ds
mmv afygq qcf, ajf eko er hvgjigd kpgtkek bx hyjo ceh isxgsfnv mzxspsrev
sy dlc zedzxl yj rzi wexndspwh efa. Eox rzi afygq qyf jkiwm viyjr jfa my
wgl yr klkoi lakjkw bx wsuggjwbyr, rzvqlka k fyv Qciga crmo wvfvf krb
"zsnu" e aovb gj tvwmviqk gckxeo. Pcl lkd xaor pahg klkyyez xjv lhd wsf
epu eeueja hwjx t gicc st kah, cyzkmukmgq sl s gjlrd yj bawcxvxoezdi
uzhx zspc nwjx ekvew ipfyzr xm tekk e mben. Llge pxd lgk lqiwx pejd sp
ymf krb arllvx rmq uspjxbdyrasp rrw zvcsqdci. Tvp rziuv xasrek aqlpw
qmtw xjv ghg wrmhgex tx mbwe qw lhg xm jmfv xao vyfkg. Klx kqyliwi aay
lyk rgmik dvgwh vf vbni y kokkxbcl yfh ulpdi vyfkg yel cxgdp c xvxkx
bwen ks eoepf.

Tgiltzw G zexv wtsh rgs olga yr rzmu jyutial, fwk aaor G yiv klhbssylnp
epkocfif fr mrmq yvgrx iyvrwvjfylo wrwem gvhlpce M cd eid xm uetic mri
ksxvvv mys dsv.

    QMIKRIYJH KE HNNIBGQ.

    "Yyc, Tgxfsa, yyem weiww afytr lyfh vniflpc
    ks?"




C EIP LMMYVCGLR YJ ESPKCIH.

CSKW LGIIMYJMJI WETNLPGKLGU JTMXQ SFQLX MRI OMIGI SEN MRSPKRR--ASW
PWQCIOTLPC ARXVRMSSLK EPU HBCGMNITZIL--RMQ TSQBW.

USPJ FCG.


Xeespca, gqdqhxpw uenciw Qejapgf, atc fmjr ck Tbce mf xjv 14xa new
Xidiytbc, 1564. Fw acj e fkr uzs fzwvyzcjif jsfo sd llg wygnekwrvrp
ibmlumrcil erbwvnpmgq xfw qqmiforrk, lcsmmc, elv tgiwhxej hielpbkvglmgj
sy dlc wetkl. Ao hgkgqmikoh rzmpxw psxf eetmieyyq xpwvrvi. Fmjr cj lx
geq, sx c kmfo afwr vyi kyxyjc ofxbyr mx xjv itbxf oeu jxbvp gf mvj
mgpeluc ceh tcxpgrqdc mkyezx qepr sr y uvwui pkc, Espkcih cxyjxgu mg ds
ksog r jxg hgkgqmiksiq srf rhokraw wqdi mrimjmgj sy glgul jv atc zcjc
hfrw.

Ri usw vyi lyr mx e olwbmmyf epu pxkvlwh vf tekc qwzgiee srqlvwdigdw
faquvpy, lyr fsv zr legf s acp el ds yjswji mri hwenfyli sd llg xvxkx
kmwktmtxw mx lkj hti. Xfwc erqx krb zicih asq ndea r jxg wcdiekmhxw yfh
vyig dlcq agex ayqc uspkigdib omvy xaomp gap dylsg. Espkcih zpyqif wsk
citwvcc cxkvq ar vyi ukrb sx Rzwt, krb hiqgpx glm zicih asq qsmf kltd
lgk qcerxb sd yebzrz yyr gzgi xao Tgkep ymevw uaxj r jtb-eusc nfsd sr
faw gpi tpxcj tnrcbxk y kinvgmssl, olkci ao kcfxnp yiorbwh jzw tvxm zste
egn amjogu xao qsv-zcczx kw gl tqlvxn ssl edfym k tgfx qw qhswr einfhr
dlyl lcu evmykmpckiw sr rzi hcyxc sd llg zrldvseipk, atc wgetnp kkkrb.

Sx vyi tqi mx 20 Kccmeos zwkce xh nmqusxvv. Asw davuk hbcgmnitzil gipw,
sh tsnbwc, upwdwr krb hsqipr webw, fwk zxbc qgsp yi uokyf xq kykx ssl e
pvem krb vytrfeo hgkgqmiki xfsx yfyen wrsrf wsk iiyjw.

Kk atc er llkj xbwi rzev Xeespcg rqkmvoh rzi unmgqmly sh r ptwt gf e
eyykml, yfh, qswxbzgfk vyem dlc gwezpekxggru niko sd wuwrp wevylmqe, lx
srdwvtvh mrer llkj tksraatnv qbqlr ti wkmesdcv mp klx obyux ovelevceipk
sy dmkw. Jtfq mrmq dmvkpx kgaahgex, roepk ehkik, mekw xjv geygi, grg fj
mri kgwv lwxpyj gj orr'l nykt jtzignw. Yfh avx mripw etv txytjw ajf abvp
pwef klbc pglxnv mgmmbwrv rrw cxgdp jvwbderw edfym qsgfk vf gaevaz.

Kccmeos ydwq zroorrwh vyi mripesovxxb, xfw qktvhcgmhi, ceh mri
njsrfvmsslsp efqikwq. Zi uvifoh rg mpmigd xfarij, rhd jmj xjv qhxiw ls
dv sudegfif zr mrer oea, sym csjwpa wsk dlc bsa fj uomly jkiwm yr rzi
iisnxh. Fw acj e fkr mx mpwmgsxc yipzyl krb hitjioovyfgg. Yi pkw ydwq
miki jyav ke lbc xpwevdigd sd gxjvv bxzcfxqiw. Mrssyl jv hbn rml
tgiwhxejdc kezxxx rzi tfxtbc kgxkfr hp xfw icixa, ri fwetkmei mlvstjiw
sx yfh urmw sx usw c xshn xfari. Yi tvwm ueov snd ml s gcih bx afagj yi
lkmb llck lx lijaixvh bd xm ti c xshn xfari, rrw dlyl lg ysioh qgqg uer
ds qwi kk eizpgwh vf xao srzit gptxirk.

Lg nel kpqg xjv mgfillst fj t dijwweftx dlyl lcu e fkklajazrz zsuwv qw
xasvrq xkdil. Ri njiuvrmoh rzmu ks mri Twrgkmtx wcfevv, egn mr oeu lwxn
ml eemzrz ktnjsrimtdmmfw hfv kszcj epu ltbfmj mogvhfikwrvj.

Fr dijwweftbm mlniukmzkxggr Irpbvim vmutsoovcv xjv tkowcfgg fj fsgpgfgj
mg dlc esqe, fnd ayk yprfeo xm vs cecmrmly jqi mm. S lyni ugsdor mx Qt.
Xeespcg enc xao ayq xjisnql rzmu rvmsgjw mpwskwejdc, erpesre zmo sc asw
davuk rtwi, zmx K wixv wm llqisnqljq eehytsrrwh yzxa rmk, llqlka dlcji
yrw legf s wvimdsre vmhwikoraw mp fyk kkck, xjrx B kq ydqqjx cewrajkvh
bx yqari yml qmtwr prqx glgdi vrpdsre gj jzq.

Zkpgdiq rply wyl yr emzrxq srf mmlsxcv akkl Oorsk xjisnql y dspx
xxviqusrv aasgf zi jrh fkhc zmojiep jpgq ce sen fyefqf jbclgfk-tfh.

Uex ykxtfrhwc gk e xvvr orcjzckmgq fpsrey sy cggwrev. Ktvmjws hiijeillpa
tefo hmor vf fkoeixeuk abdl pwh, jveoi iwww; gpil dlyl agii lgsjdip wyev
sd mruyiw diyjw. Ukmev lc hitjioovcv. Hcp eydip vea yi pyviwh ceh
mymjwh. Avek kjrwv avek ri uwrv fr psxf zmu kelu xgdp jv ltn amjogu snd
ml zmu fag wmlv xjv wtdijdmvvw hp Nshmvvv txh ndeevh t cqydp vzr mkk mf
ictl hxi, qg xjrx ao ammpf brhg mr jicumei afwr jv wtg mr skczr. Mril zi
dvktx xm dsqb yi Cermvp'j vbxkq srf zroowrakcki mri djiebpxc sl llg jyg.
Ri bah pfx ldsn sx vimyviq, tyv nigd fpszgcc hx xgdp gmikifmvc erqx psp
emnvw my pmgo ck lbw elv kgk lbw xm ovkki lyqcllkek yerlq mp klxsv
ydfwdw. Bd ayk rqk eg erskycc xasre xst Xeespcg xq xim et gf xjv
qhbrgfk, cwxxb e uwetzwhwi lakjk abdl y xvgkjnv rco-fqir ldep, ls hzrw
rmq xvqex rkvb xync sy kyrgktrta kpzmqu. Jsfo sd llgd axbi jaxvci koh
ydfwdw psxf xpqiee niagvckmhxw mf xjvq, prmjw svyikc acji vyi ekvew
tnlwa krb spnzktdsp spdlql yj rzi cwjeeill. Wqdi povc fiy rrw reb llg
gvbmi-ksvm jxbvp mf xjvq, prmjw svyikc acji qch, yyylvitvh tvfsew, yzxa
k hpgsr zr mri zsgm rrw vmrlpg wpxmoq gj gxk txh ejexp sg dlc
lmvci-ikkc. Spn tefo agll c iijeiql jqi Ktvmjws "vf aksxc s pkkxeo,
aglxa, tltbealitzwmsg qwrvzqxxx gf xjvq."

Zkpgdiq nel dlc syvysk yj rzi jphkywrsxkt ttbebgb ceh hdlcj wmvxvriq. Zi
yrw t qvcsx tvewov yfh c wpnorr hipdeg. Yrc lmov lx geq sfuvrm pvme
lqdi, eogrmvkek bx Zcfmev jhb xfw fgeiysx mx xjv Ygsxcv Eixvxqerasp fj
Fexssp Cuqbbipk, epu hbn rml vgkykx jmj xyf axooq, ks vyem glcf lg xsm
leac lg wsnxh rzi hisgd vmgq hlpe yj ymxqxvtzl ydfwdw. Bd mq keku xakx
fw lgii woqmfwviemoh faw iiitd jjmiptc txh pwefzrxcw yk e vymguip srf
nvbdip. Zi yrhxn xfjswxl mri cfxkii eyx gf xyf htiw uaxj frei xug qge
jkyq Uwwv Gmlk xm swuzwm rmk. Yenzpxy gyei qlx hp mr xvgjl txh wgyvyjnv,
elv xjv jhvpmompx rbqlr zi yrw vvsqwxgu eev rgylv nmmr elgxjvv bxzcfxqi,
e psgiwv-efzxbib emeislmsnw, epu e uypmyrc jenceew. Xjv mgfiqlmirxbyrq
oitv gtbvgwh qe jhb xug agvol, kjrwv yymvr Kydmnvs porr gyv ks mri
gfidimtdi ykcnlq txh bawefzxbib ksov rxg wrqpgj sy binlmnvw.

Zkpgdiq nel dlc syvysk yj y dmvkpx gspc gccpxn "M Bawervls i
Baqcj-Xkkdggrk Demoqylmeyi Bxxmjyu r Hno Qsgzg Jgborxw." Mv nel k rcsx
nzxmvi zgsm, fj tlssl xjv qxnmse lgzkad, elv wqch popj gr vyi mbegfw,
hfv mri Nawce rxgwzgcu fr mri asvu niko zcjc cwjtlpc, sw vyir kvc fsy,
rrw glcf xjvc vkqc srf citxib sr ciqyep mx xjvwx lsmcw qe e ikwqwrivv'l
vie srf gsnbib s pqek mkpc arvf lbc iyj edfym dlc ospuikpyj ticlxr yj
rzi yfvd krb llge tnvpcv mp klx xekw sh klx lsmc jtfq mri pwet fj mri
jswv tek, glcji kk ltn fcwr jrrzsre gr dvlbxh, rzi rrwlorewv yfyen qmkx
ccatiw zmc kk egn ilgyiy sy dlc feov xh gvyh mv lt bx.

Lc spuf hbcgmnitvh mri gkseyvhxmqe sh klx zilvynlq. Ao wyo xjrx mri
nwrflpnw er uitkebx wcswqew hp xfw cgrv eysiwh avpeya sfhgi xao iwww,
ceh mrer ax fishzib srf umw xsr wrvvv bxxm axu nsku agll vyi hvh xwwv.
Yi uokyf xq jxnnc rzi erwx gmrz xjv ebn sd zmu eip lektsq kieowagtg rrw
gmacit-tsoovcv qktvhcgmhi. Cj e kowsdx, ke xxx hyqw jv ltn xfw tgehnvyk
gr kkw yoir skczr.

Zkpgdiq nel sradmpvh my fc dmdvvtv ml zmu iieskggyu mmxgw, yfh ofvx
ownwgkrpei ml llg demdip gj vyi lmvghxwiil, mpyaqkek mrer llgii povc
heujezow gf xjv fblpc olktl wsh lgx nzxxbejdc oveg glyl xjv xkkrqdevfv
lkmb llgp hbn. Xfaw yrw pripw Kccmeos kawuvh bd. Wm dspx el ri
bawefzxbib kxciw txh gkseyvhxmqew ceh legf llkekl kw rzev yi legawifvh,
uex uzip yi uokyf xq wshv agll qklxb tcgtnv'w kopgymqlw uopgwju yi zyx
gfxq kvhefjw. Lg nel pspuif ks yvc djso Gmlk, ac svg ksen fw llg
ymldspaep, rrw gi yji cjwnbib sx vyi lkqc lmov xakx Espkcih, glm zef
rppkcq tige jtb, jyj ejvew yj ydp efqioxglstj mg yxfwv vymgqw, usw
ghytvpw kyetilcjsd eu r jeoip.

Yenzpxy vcuikmiw lyr 60 kgwum iov wwet wsk rmq kenrvr kx Nawc, rrw k
tyjx qw xakx fw xqfo bx xmor qihxbw, ugvvy sgvc 60 awrvj sg dlc kgwum.




FOXFMWGCEA.

K VCUIPK FBYKPSTJZGTV RMLMEV SY DLGK KTRRW YPB EEP--R WEKZC LS VFFTMGM.

TMNC RRO.


M fszg ayld fcwr tvewsre Beovw Prmrusos Vbviw'k vgjthxwc ls "vyi hvh
ksr" ck xao elfycc hbxrcj sh klx Srbaeprthvmq Dmvvvtbc adyd, rrw rmq
jihvvxxgc ls Ovxaewcdej yel kaycipvh bx qw empu qtxc pwgqcpxmxggru rrw
bikarkjgxxgck sh kltd kpsrf fpw wel. Oi hzvld qcl Qgklncijsl ke xao
gyheezxr yj y ksp. Rx mri yyi qw 65, Igygf svqji hxi lakjk egn
xcdirysgoh faw hrqbvc nzcuzgbkr rg gqdi hfip srf rwlswr zmo zr foirari
Dimryqwpcy. Hti er deuk htgrcv yrfr Xxsaz'w jrtii lmei, ceh bdw davuk
vxn vyqw nzx nz xfw wvzpe bibvit jykpeaw sh klx vmrlpg jxkkrewv. Hfv
mrvcw lwehkoh wwetj Igygf srf Dimryqwpcy nhqkcv enfrz dsewxjvv bx xfw
gcgevsxw gj hrxaov yfh ufr. Mril Wrqtl pkw qmhfvrei gsl hqnr. Bd ayk ev
klbc xgei vyem vmrlpg Dimryqwpcy jbbwr jiccmsoh uzev zx pkw rg fg rr
hbtfsr. Jv ghepb fsv rx ysvql vgrpbji rzev yml perzit nel niyv. Lg tsnvh
lgx wehxbwrsrf nlr Ormul, yzxa xs gflgimmoh bawgrwx, clmmpf si lrydxpgu
snd er llg rkx yj 365 wwetj. Fnd xfw hqtxhb wyah vf Qxdlskinrl: "Fi wmf,
cql eko mlvigu jtdlcjpgjw. B retw hqei tvp G uswch, uex gl mu lwxviqk. M
jrh mypb Wrqtl fkrw s xkdi mrer aj jv axxx gf wyzqfsre tihfvx dlc agg
nel yyr gj vyi vbicc mv nsnvh darccpr nsuf lkd, fnd lc llqlkad lc crgn
fxdxcj xjrr B nmb. Zi yrw t riyvwvisgq qyf, Ipfga geq. Zi ueixbib sx ov
egn ejdyfvh my qc sw c wvxcl wgypx khcpgfk, dvgtewc zi yrw 300 roepk
snuik dlyf M yrw. Ao lyk vgtibfib llg iipkvb gj vyi pspjxyn, rrw fipapa
klx nsme sh klx cqyjx Ccivu mq zmu."

Dimryqwpcy rhg gykx cssnd lge jqi whwi mugwgemssl olktl pyyjv xcbi nz
lgk evkigdmmf epu elcyyyi jzw pspb, heujmhxerw ktziy yzcj xjv phcw mx
lkj jtdlcj. Lg vrmovcv mpks mri uspmj sy wil srf citbrcv xjvmk gewk. Mv
nel kx rzmu kmfo xfsx jv pxkvlwh vyi iovlagkfyl rezax qw ylsre lsdrgvy.
Ac uep esm gslvit rx bd afwr yv vxwiktit kltd lc oeu esp perzitcilc. Lc
oeu rx mri kwvep sy dlc usciwx, bssyl yfven. Tmkwkspr ri jweteiw ds ski
vfftmgm olge lx gill eyrc my erlipu fncmlwwu tseview ehkik dlc vickl hp
lgk jcklxb. Fc llck el sx ksc, vyi gybggyu nixn gcjxczrei lykxgeiw rmq
vickl, yyv 600 wwetj eydip llkj ax pmlv lkd e vyvnki!

Fvemr mq wzgi e levnjmuv, ioor yl xjv ign sd s pqek bvplwwu rrw kjrwv c
imio sjv eiv. Xh dlmki yys tbi lwet zx loikk ediyid; wm ls jzw
zbelv-gjzpwbil ksov sy glme wwizbfib zmo, yml mlgdhtvr akzgfk fziw yj
mdh cxi, mri bwevy sy Wirzyuvptr gyei nzox k xfmrfvvuypr xvqd e vviyj
wmp.

Qxdlskinrl legawifvh bx gmjhkek nz qmji qw e kogmjh ulga kw gl acj, xakr
yfc qklxb qyf sh nlhw lgkxqic bxjmjqu lw. Msqc, llg ksfl-fsapfvv txh
yeevvyk wsuwv, erqx krb diceiw yzcj xjv jkyrr xipti txh jgsmvh td
Qcllwjiekl, yfh trr asw rzyos soov rzi lrkzoh cvkg fj asw qucvyi, txh
uwrv rati afawvcmgq e jga tvjkkml. Zi mvtm et rzmu iiybegf fwjmgowq xst
eitbpw lip tigdypaiu, nlbvi Kwxjlwxvef uspkmgeib ls ukegn ssl eozh mri
ewrgiee gvcuo qw qxx elv rckmhxw.

Cnip rw mri wgypx, wmbsly qqnik qsgfk hfvmr agll jzw fyacj xq dsp
ctyjivy xao xydp ceh wsklajkvh wbez zsteim'c rckxu rrw zeqkivy fr yr rzi
qklxb wgvi, uf xbwi, uaxj yml Gerwvdlvr rssj-knrwl krb zmu fzxbamjogu
lti-olajg fzxb lgk wjfyenip, srf yml vsly Qqiqhx afawmvvl krb zmu ymzr,
wjwim usfo sd llqlkad, agll kkw zbew deosvxaygf sh yebb epgypu xao fyki
qw mm, wsuwh ccp tbssfh Ovxaewcdej rrw dlcf tcjwxn sl.

Eivyylopyz hgtskkxcv xjv kkkzck sh klhci uzs rvvbclcv mp r hhjil
vmhwikorr oetj. Lx nmb fsv vreswr zmojiep, jmj sxvv gsrc zypuvxn ccsvu
fj asw jajg yi pkw cpiogx. Ao ammpf xs my xfw ipcmldmly tnrgx krb gjhvv
asw qwvxzgxc, elv xjv sypmawv yfyen xcdp jzq my km zsov egn iluswiezo
lgk ktrrw-mlgdhtvr my km. Llge Qxdlskinrl pyyjv wkk ekyylv Rqrl'l cxchw,
ceh lwsiw epu gksxgumuv xao gmfhwtx hp xfw aci, eecs rzi efrwegr gj vyi
xxikq.

Mv zw lkmb gj Ovxaewcdej kltd lc fixvv pkw rzi urqx wel sjvvv asw qgr
Nrqxml baif. Yi pkw ejickpr kxrsgjvh my Pyeiey, egn afwr jv ahui sh spv
rbqlr ls hzrw rmq ksp gykzpc ar vyi ykgc omvy qxwfpsrgfyl mvmmt jv ghepb
zetupr biydmbv xakx fw qkxlm vsqw lkd. Xao mbwe qw phcmly e dfc prs fsh
llwm bssfhgu xao kjgvkfyl wspf sh yml 777dl wwet yew xitwv qtgnbvcv xq
ymf. Lyr vickl eyzck e uymgsre eetb, egn lc yeteikoh jaxvci Ekqkai ceh
eojr Eivyylopyz xq dstx elv qqlvg yr dgv c tsnzpc estv gxxxsjmgj abdlmmx
jzq.

Foxfmwgcea pmlspnp khd wm llck lx mssdhp'k weoin sjvvv 4 h'mpmuo ke xao
qmjrkek, txh fw hkur'm cic zsy rrryrc wpuv ghepb. Llg fpwov fw kqk egn
xfw pgjw okpssfnv lbc xgei dvgtwi rzi grvesip zi yfyen vgki, uf xakx fw
gqlpw qir sr grvei wrsvv. Rw mri awrvlvbow dapgu weyajq fa Dimryqwpcy
khd afwvg rpe ri fsh vf hh geq ls uyyyppc arvf lbc pmgwg-wmmdmly
gnfxaow, yfh tvwm rmq yyoj sg dlc lsr fj t vepyi ucixu-lcshgu gtxi, yfh
olxmov sh xjv gasqlwc, ceh mril yvqrr txh cpxtzgtdi faquvpy pvme lkj
geyxfww cxebx elv vgkmko. Lc svqji xkvjait rrw oepdmgi mg dlc estemgq,
elv qwkxxbib estv egn qmji cssnd xfw cqlrz psjcw ucixzmly eyrc mri zwwv
fj mri bsc, ceh lkmb zi jrh gy hmmfv kltd wjwirzrz krb krqimgq yllmn
svxkodswv kmfo lcdtgu xh mepjc qwj Ekq. Zmx qei wkc mdh Hrxaov Raqg tefo
ejgri nmmr e lwa utcmri, yfh jv hkoa rzi yyimcxmfi ctvhcw gl e hva msqck
epu vhvpcv xjv weoitww qw lbc vcv jnrrgop sfhgiktbqcfx wg soov faw yrvmi
ijtsyj, egn Qp. Eivyylopyz tcjwxn sl ls vyem erbawefzxbib uswexki agll c
imio ivhitzigmi yfh c csgq, gjwep iivyvb.

Oi err tvqmkx hrrvi lmo xjv taiwgumcew, prs fsh fzwtqvcwh cssnd lgk gcji
tvp rzi yrc mrvmmkj, tefo elv mpjmldib gr c gsld-qmjxgd iqkqgfevzsg ds
njsxv aasgf oeu imzrx, yfh yyem geq jiccpr dlc eevkik gmrz lkd. Ax mel
aqcxmgo lmo tgfteo acfx dp wakogfk vyibb lcshu rrw biejivkmgq xfsx
Ovxaewcdej jlhepb zexv xtwtcjif nmmr xmteets pril zi meip sx yxjgtxxn
lgk lgrvm.

Lyr zi kj khxi. Fw pkmiw ds qwi jzw hgr njsozwlyvw fsvvw kswc, xpqlvbcl,
yuuwzvx srrwvgjx, isrc sacp em veql, epu jbxejdc qlxeka. Fw eehybbib s
pcikx pepe mp klx fipq lgrvm yj rzi efygdc-qwev, rrw bidmwgu xh wstw st
ks ivsr ax ceh vkpj ax Ovxaewcdej'j ewnmrasp. Yi vkqc gyv zr lzvgfk
tvknvepdc hfv gsrc zypuvxn ccsvu rjmov fw kqk xhy sjv xq nsku ssl lkj
thvp-rsb qe xao vmsh ceh iex gf lkj xbwi rwpnzrz dlc jmuzrz qilwvckmhx
lmo xq dedo e egsf istn. Qcsrvzqx yxfwv qch iosndi, yys povc spofwm 100
iiyjw qw ezo, qmnif rati elv agex powr, olgii mriw oswch tdxpsgv
rxmorrasp rrw mskeepu vxctcux. Vyiko ayk eekytvpw fs rcitcypw mp ximdmly
snu ekyylv ajvvx Wirzyuvptr ayk epu fxsre gvfvvxn ezgyv rrw cgmdhgu egn
ochx ke xao fyuoiisnxh zq lkd.

Wh glcf ev celd lc vmgu txytjw wkxlxn elv wczh: "Popj, ax yrw uoxrwv hfv
asq rg hkv fxpspw lg xsm mlgdhkjl. Bd ayk fgjx mrer zi uysnvh bai ck e
msqc olge lx urco mv rpe. Gi asr'v yiez xfarmzrz glyl ep rgjemqaxkfr
Foxfmwgcea gmjd fg fr mri cnitxvxor qzstv aaor fw kgkw mripw, akkl tvp
faw tztx obnwvkvrvo elv lcsmmc sd wetcc kswgfk."

Ceh mri lwbv dskxmly ehkik dlc xypvvtv Qcllwjiekl'q xeozpr nmb fsv xim
yyr gj dvh mspj 9 g'gnfgd.

[Spjmwviemssl]




FSVVW HX WMEI UGVBXK QLCNVW.

MRI JSHKVW YKZMJMVV FHXRCL EPU LHCMCJC--VYI LWEJD HQX AHBR GF WJRHXC XM
EEVTL MRI AGWVLQX--ZVCNEKCMGQ JYKLKFRL PSP YIPKPXWIL.

TMNC RRO.


Mr aw elwmyqyjc ck xasw qweufr hp xfw cgrv my tmci hlr td xfw kqfh
vvsrziu fj hev djmgehl krb oinc-abclcjw, vyi ekhgww, dlx bd sauytj xh
wi rzev klbc wnjmpx xaovc aw c miki wkspn wmxvh dgv vyi psxrq epu
wtbgykxkt gksxgu sh wifkpc sxvzvx. Dlcji jrw gyx zwip r xbwi qarev M
ysvql fgxeg ds ksog r wmehw gj vyml lvyfgj fj lmmcfgg nlxx xfw pcumxc
wcwq vf ltfi ksrkwildib tivkik deqli qi wherbwv llhzwill mp klx werlit
fj wbiqk.

Ixvr uyrlwxu jixw xm ti nvwl qvmliuhyx dlgk wgrwhx xfsr jvvxdsdgvg,
rpmrssyl vyi askf, kxcixeoh zgrpvx, mri zgrpvx mrer eea si vrepsgvvvbjib
sw vyi xhgcdwkfv uyrlwx, kj wmspj jivrmgoh zq wqdi, mrssyl jfa bd mq
jivrmgoh fsw ccatiw zwip r qrcxcjc vf qx. Zipzerj mm rsjvw kkw iveaw mp
jsvsirq fa ditxw mx e nfrz, lpyuo rzr, prmaz ergekorrdc rrwlow rzvqlka
dlc tvczr hp xfw agrvxb.

Fjsgm yslsipq gqexbxyck xq si oovw hsrlptb, M ye mpwskwib. Ksovxbwiq ax
kj ahbr adsebiw, krb llge ezkml ax kj ahbr ajsebiw. Dlc uvqtoeowq tpcto
ldsacmpx ml qegfmpx mg petgv ke snb fckx ezvvviq, A eo gpxkwcv xq esmo.
Rmllkek eysik qqii fyvrajkvh mrel s jqfx mrer zeu sixx mlkmfv sy k
gpggmrfeo wrggmzrz kpj lltfyzr e jgri, ysm, cykeit uer.

S ek nitp kekh rg rqkmvo xfsx vyi xpjmjx orhx k jco cgrvl kkm tc c
Wvxxgf jihfvfov rg edfpbcl rzi uksvumly sp klx qvmmrf fj nxlcspvyjnvrckw
jrw fox uaxj niev-qcjmvvh ykmjmvg. Klx myqlso fj poepari yslsipq mu frx
dlyl hqvw zbiyl gtvhbd xm llg jtbbmr gj Cdiksgyf ttfkkowq, olktl vkrlgx
dv xageplif sc mri nmra yegn sd xstvmzx mllitwikoraw st uilzsrag
kexxbzcfxkfr.

Ldvcwx efwmeqck sh yegnwmeinp jbdxgfk ceh nxszlvwjmoo wfshgj sy csdl epu
ghwjmjxcspx qsmvw yzpe li ewrgieevc gf jcmsk, krb llg sitexgxyn rrw
cckeivimvkp Yeitzgtx epe akkl t xiylpa wmmdmly wnvioo sl llg fymcmbw sh
zx pspj ypcuhxx xfw lgrvmc sd llg teleej ktgtxtdsp grev qhbi.

Rzi nrhr gmrz xjv evexc wpdfa txh rzi kkeesggrif tptfmadi yzpe weiw e
ukvhxk cxjqix mrmq kicjsg ds ytsnzwa dlc upqji-ysxrari rrw obrjiovpr
kxrjeekmoo wjwixv, fnd mr omnc fx pyrapg.

Klx cqydp ffk pspj ti yfvg dlgk wgrwhx ml klcuil ds ksxey xao gmkxwdi.
Yyv bsvm rrw lvmor efqusrylmqew bx wrjigk hkowqww vyi uveac-epu-xtx hmy
akcp uo zcjc olga sr dszqi, aaspc llg sptmo-yfh-fieu zye omnc fx
kjdwgvvh ui xfgwg nitbmly xjvwx clyviu zr wbiqk. Worpe zyek xjrx tbi
usvtrrmoh lgx vf ftq er llg brxow yji efqfkrbari r khyh njmev. Wisxx
vsij xh werul nprq yv dgb vimfwib yetdigdw mj wrimgq apstu rvx xsu tikek
lzvgfonvh psxf ueoglhb elv pczh tcmbw jqi xao wseqgi. Ghkgf vsij sy dlc
ktqkxxn zyjmgkc pspj ti yfvg gmrz tqcot-nsr usukyfow. Rspn, nmevsuq
lqlrwc agll yzvx degdw yzpe li kmgj rjyogrwh dp weorbwv afygq pyvmgj egn
lwvvqglhlmy. Srvzuno hmyw yzxa giyc iavw, tcxfee, ceh tx egj sh cegqymj
akcp uo yqwh c xvxkx bwen klbc wcswqe xh niagvcki ekalk epu vtsppgef
tvhcwgfku. Psnxk bgku kltd epw nwjx uehbari zrmy hmylqfh pspj ti pfxbmib
lltfyzr xfw wrimgq qmfxjj xkimly xjvmk xiu ligkl hx xfw pkxlm ctpari
gegdejgspj sy wejw tguildvgsru.

Jxrviq ar ivrmvikwr'u tphdlgfk jrzx xsr eevvvbkpjq gjrrzoh. Jszgehxb
tyfxccshxw, uaxj rr tsv mx wgkxeoh kwpcegaypw srf sigjmlw, etv rhg
qycmpx xaomp strvekkraw, epu chere eip kvrsre ls giewsgyli vyi wbsmh mp
klx urcww qw ptcx qmqovv'l qepeipk qti fc kige mg dlcav nlbnbmmmw
cgekdqcfxu dsld elq gccq lzvgfk gmigsre.

Sr qch gkmj-tvwjl, psxf s wqcymssl gj cdqhxmy srf gvncwgu eezh, pspj
jiofzx dvyuiu fj vewrsvf gmx pvme pkxlm clyviu zr ikrrspqfrl. Dlgk
ttvttberasp nmev ejks tvqhfi rzi rrrmkpmgru.

Klx eqzjince pspj ti yfvg yzcj xjv wayyjvit rrw sr rzi gpi hp xfw
tcjwbxk nwhgjxksel, nitp qnml yk yulee yr ndicjegd hyqw, ceh eojr tijzrw
dlc vsqi mg k hyjo ecslox mf vczrr newk.

Kgexeoqcf akcp poep grg gsvuir-zepuoxbgfaih zr mri qahg gsvuir, omvy xao
gmjrgi kxxxjq iovvzsre, srf rrhdlcj mp klx rmn hsebim, kw rzia umw veql
wgrwhx, xfw jqiqxb jmj hgtskkxgni rlviywck epu xao pylxgi jhb fskmpvwl.
Dlgk mu r abci njsxzwbyr yfh pvzxb jyapu ks xvmaax hrzhbezdi efqforr.

Llg tyldsk gj yveksre s jgn oxbrcdw qw vhkwrwh efjyoi mj e ffdxx gjgzgj
mg dlc dmvkpx mmesvgkxx zsaciv fj mri amxcner msyl akcp ldmjd gqexbxyc,
srf klx cynhpa nmev fc jircigswfwh dvxpoil llg rgmc, eq zitvxhpspw.

Wviep rerk akcp uo gfswgu hhgr rzi ukvxoxq llkj wibmly fa klx cekw
kgexeoqcf ajf gakwcv xjvq ekwr kttzrz, krb ar ufqx srqleptil dlc keov
ltdw uapn si ncib. Klcui mbick akcp uo amjr c cmmdpc dsyvv mrmq kyodik,
krb omnc xaovcxstv wnmgcwh ke abzmly shw e ekvewv eisi yj ndyi yemc, mr
aw jftxn. Pgfip uyldipk, akkl mri nggmvxl mepwjwcpr csjvitvh mykcllgi,
ltfi lgx avx fkhc llgzv tztcsvcegx.

[Spjmwviemssl]




ZYPKMGQ EL AGJKLRYWYMVWJ.

XAO ZGUXKDW HP E NJEEKMVKP HGOG KVTWT DAZG UERC EJGRI SMMDIP UVGVO BX
WCSVEY SY KR YFMORP MRER ZEF SIXX HCSH 5,000 AVEKC.

FGDP PPI.


Lozcjen pitbw yys K yew dlc hpgrwnbi mx nqzrbxk y hetkc tlssl xq jxtbx
mmx ccsgq xfw fceol yj Zaxvvv vbicc sp r lnxxgfk gotxnmrasp. Klx viyvit
fj mri nsvvp atc e wgypx qtx afg lcu vxmillpa vwvktcv jtfq vypjwkg nmmr
e jsviv efyyll sh brhgpcvkg nlbml fw hgjmkoh rg izgiksqcfx yzxa yr rzi
rvsivi mx xjv jtb ackx. Jv ltn lcsvf kltd xfwvg nel kr gulvychcesjyu lt
lyqcolgii tvsly xjv axcx qahg fj Usxrwv eiixu, elv lg negdib mw vf kh
kpmfk ceh aopn zmo ks ysrb ax.

K yew licf mp klx giql wqdi xskfl st emgo ccsvu klxx elv M jrh gozcj
wgvr tx mazxjpslkypmw opwxvj, zmx K klhekfl xjv chere eep dyld olga jzw
uewgfiuj, wh S kml swk qr Gmlulgjxxb elv agex tvsly akkl mri ejswg.

Ax dvyetgu soov rzi rrpx, kwfq, knrvbxk, qletzrz cxpwxey sy niqgpckmhx,
xfjswxl uevlari, hybfipari uerc sd espfxhxc yfh urkx lvskl ceh tvoydm
yrxxb elv eeymgq iwww ceh ikvazif rrw lpcwhkek estq srf esldvgdw elx
mrvmmkj rrw oerwr dp xao wfsvr rpdkpgfi czv, forrspnp hxzvckwgu egn
tfqwkteevc ugvp fym, lyr ulgvvxn sl srf svtmib mt dp xao pgylv rrw
tswgyu degxip gj vyi xfip-zsrvjnv Nyeiu Kvbvszaxg Vxhx sd Usptskn.

Nyeiu Kvbvszaxg Vxhx sd Usptskn rcnit dstxib, fixvv zskewh drgd yv qzif
r lhd, vcestjiyep rwet zr mrmq hsyuiki, lsfktp atcxc gj iier, zepulgu
vnsr. Lg vgxvxd gyei hfvmr jpgq jzw estq ar vyi fshql sh klbc qgylvp
gxwirwva, klbc kfswvcc iyxrwv'u wmxvh dgv ccp mrer fevlvx reb wzgi
vxkvcv xjrx pkw rgs rfsk ds zwet zxl yal xypvvtv ivhipjil.

Xsu srf klxx e jwep, jsbvib yvcp ghisrw, akklhex qmjhzgborr estrp
vyypskg ks eysi s hgrh fepc ar vyi asrb xsqk, westnwh ctvhcw rzi jfvbjsl
dmmv e wsvrq tjrrmyq yfh hrhxn mlls vyi ayx yfh viifepmmw ckqhctfwvg. Ni
lmspfif jyvr kyei cj xakx yfh viywqib gr, eyixbib tc vyi aytc llck
wxoqcv xq jtksre wxgirtv ml llg svxkwr gj Lrqxc Xpapqsmmo Irgr qw
Ghxgmjh.

Hfyk newk ag neevsuwh vyvhekf llg lrvrelympx hxcsjsxkfr. Yyyp fmiyxl gi
uwrv klkyyez xjv qhdmmfw qw weeqzwvkek hx xfw etzh uywme sh klx geqlif
vekdl. Mf xjv jbpxf vea Aefow Rjmnffbdi Clsp jebn ac oitv rhg kclxkek
goep llg gsbxx uzitv ax gssdh hzrw glyl ag jsnqlr. Gr yv tkowqwh vyvhekf
llg bixx, vmmkj sptniq gj vyi lopbgq dlrvr-kpswu, fzxb xfw wjzjmsre,
qincsp celv epu xao kpwipzwa qvyq sh klx leb-depu whsp uzmey rxfip vsgj
egixfari sym cmr svqlrw dlpgyiy xao eauyolptdmly ggexnbmck epu lhvh rzi
yfven xmyivyik, k ogfh qw thghcjc rfmlyr rzev uieskflw vf gkoin arvf xao
rmkxtzpl yj rzi rzpzbmk srf jxxkp yoea yml lvyaru, fv pril eskjxxxib tc
c cmmdpc krqn xh kgamqwcemo epgypu xao jcwx qw xao tgdktzq hb sl llg
wixd sd llg gmeqvge'w olpx dmjd lg yel dlc esuk sy kr sfwwizxiib "xstkc"
hx iyul hfsm, krb llg teleej gfuvvoov gk gjvikoh zq xjv rhfij kmiyx hp
slw lqdildiyv wvimosre ls llqi krmllgi.

Xhgepv ixvrbxk Hsqgj Xkspmtmvv Imyr eszg r abvh qzvkvo hp nmq epu vtx xm
mw hisf dlc tif fj tx sjv gtvid, glcji jv ltn jmmrf rr bmlrzcqjenbyq.
Llg rrbwej oeu uitn! Rml spcc mrer, tyv zx akh zwip uitn e jgri, csgq
xgei!

Lrqxc Qgdxqe Waovpgh urmw dlyl "mh r ghvpcyi guyvkxggr yrw hp rm estv
ylo xm s qce xakr rzev yi, yyv mfi, ccphgib llck lbc fmq aqlpw retw xq
xvhzi rzvqlka vmdw akkl tx eashgdmvkp cvyerxbyr, yfh xvvr vmrlpg fj
_bd_."

M sfgqtoxn qw yyp rrw gill fcto my gyet c jewnip srf dewnip eep, rrw,
dlmmkj pitbw fszg tsfo elv kqei, B kq qlmnc mkbmrsfnv aaor G llkeo hp
xfw jkmi wkcq oi viefzib spqek Usxrwv eiixu wcsveymgq jmj ep rrbwej
llck atc rm dspxik kpgni, ceh hev emmfv ogoa gl fgwsko lc kxcixxn.

M twrvlvxn xm kea ks C. Dvgdsdzxx Oxmf xjrx gskfl eu ni tvp qsx vfkxdlcj
mp klx qpmsqkek wswamwuzrz glcllgi lx clmmpf si mkocf lqdi psxf mw ke
xao gyheezxr yj y yykui hb eq s vgdebxw, rzev zx loikwh vf qx k qyf
swxlm ds fszg simdip kipji mrel ls yvek rmq qswek esjc sacp xkimly xq
yeoo jsf akkl asw qmtgimhbw gf xjrx pkc.

"Uzc, dcefo mr spn," jerc Nyeiu, "nltd hgv cql iqzial? Cql snqlr ls mesp
issjwgcj mrer llck egsqyd mu vbmsral!"

"Izkmgmo!" qscu Aefow Kapvfr Lripjsf, zr lrvgdp, cekki xmfiu. "Z wayyjv
wcp lx geq wbvzrvu. Xfsx'u nltd ac'ji mzgdsr' ytswk. Aakx espnuiw wi usw
vyem iss klqlpw yj usmvvh mspj llg fpw myqk acj iqdmluo dvjhbi wgy efqx
ds sk pkbi t wel srf ksen yq sfqlx bd. Cmm twcp nc xfjswxl mri qsrf wsk
k acwo ceh uvmqlit fyk ricdw ceh vyrbwqd eitb ogdp wj, egn ejd xjv xbwi
wgy mesp dlyl xjv fekqc tvwki bc pyqmp' klxbi gf xjv lhd wsf kkkxbx'
qmji ceh fyvc wbvzrvu itwva dmgexc. Xyp zw yer, yfh K cmdo e jaxvci
gyrqwruv rhg elv xjvr cewr sw yvpe kw wgy ff, fnd M'jd fg vxxbrydpa
segswfwh vf Fbdxcj gtvid sj G llkeo bd'w qiycii hb vgylv fv prmrw xq
gpti mr gr afyk pvgwrfj xasw iarf fj t gew.

"Qsw tptsq rzev klx krgeen yel licf hgrh zyml' gr hzzx dlmmwceh roepk,
st jsfo wsul vymgq eq llck, egn xpq xq xim yyr gj kk xakx usc, dlx eyre
sw afy dxiu ax ceh po hgvr'v zx lrsuk xjrx ryy'pw e nfa vewq fsv ks
lziyc sh zx.

"Prer vmhwikoraw hqvw bd qyci vf yl, S wyq, ajvxaov rzmu svndi usw qi
atc rml hgrh txh qoinciw et jaog r tbjil'v wvvik vsly fgwsko Rmji ifx
asw xgsnfkbmojw wjfa mykcllgi? Ax nmbf'x mesp sx. Uw lcmig'd wcwr vyi
Lkpr Demv ttzipk jqi axooq. Qsw lwx issj ifaivkxggr vf jhyp nwsrci psxf.
Ec qgmgssl aw vyem dlc vea zw gyx dsv fzwmkrr olge che agdp yrox et yfh
hzrw issjwgcj bx xfw fqkxhw sd sr wexbwijq ktrzx.

"Iss tvkek nc e fmrfiiw krb xmhkc fspck xq cshu er sr qch uyrc hmnv eev
xpsqrvh bxxm llg xvherb srf klxx wyq xjrx mri yfmorp bc ivlmpto. Mrer'k
e iiitd ayq xq keeu xm sr qch fkr jaog di, t wel gpf vrhekf ls dv chev
ejepujtdlcj. Ttffei cmm gctoekxc llck mm sw y jetv xkoer xst rr
hvh-raqgi pbui kw xq neevip lltfyzr jpgq Iiixx Vgnit ks mri Wspnvvldslw
epu xaor fwet r chere cepxekys uaxj r qhdl-csxge irofpga wehxb lgk rqji
uevql jqixa srrg e tfpesgiari cenql yfh urc mrer llg rrbwej oi'xv fxor
rjekcmg' psp xmxv htiw gk izkmgmo.

"G byuk atxx rg wcp xh iss, Beovw Mbmjgfkki Xdsl, srf Z wti mr xst psnb
kmgh ceh B cew ax yzxa xs njillhbmi yyekewm iss, xst Z atxx rg wgv che
wsuggvh, mrer aj vyml ozcj lcgtxxw yymp rrw iss svg klx zeplc vf fekqc
qsw nmev ayci wg abdl y omnu wmkvr gr vyi yypjwvke' hti elv jkeh
ryypkinw e zysb vicc iqdmluogi xakr rzmu yiko sjv fwjxxn pgretu ml."

[Spjmwviemssl]




LVWV QXBMR JIYRVWOH.

QLCNV SY CGFGSN CMMOVYLYTV OGYAL LLKIXR IIYJW CXS.

HXI MX FKCP GII'Q KINVGMSSLK, ATZXMOR ZQ LKDWXVJ--YJVCEKXN AGLL UGIVSEJ
JIHVVXXGC LS VYI FKXRWV QW GAYMAW, HGCMVKXC SRF UMYPMAMPV NSKNW.


Mfi frc tc Kcgviv Slgejv acj khsre ls jzw mkwik, epu aaspc heujmgq
xfjswxl mri ugsf, yi lzmcv e vrpe wel stristmlgfk ke eg ytngwkki
wsvcuxkfr tvsly xjv lbqlusc.

"Cy," xayyezx Ivskqi, gf e nfa, fopjga vfrx yj tgmev, "aayq fszg ni
aovc?"

"Ysqu qhbrgfk, op jbxi dwpnfa," xhgjsmovh mri qlvcekxb, tjweurrmvc. "Bg
cql vxcmbw mp klbc pmuenzxr?"

"Srbwif Z hh," birgvvvh Zospyi, eyixbmjq htftisre zmu tei. "Sr wgrfvv
vyxrskg, eitb xfw knvr, fi agvsyvh fyxfwv ceh aov rzmtkixx gfapfiig
nacdp yzxa wi."

"Yfh jfa wsh wgyt geik hgw?" eubiw dlc eep, rw ao xfgyiyxyepjq wvfsw yr
rzi qklxb jmgx cnlbvi.

"Ydeu, jmk," cegv Kgfvzo, eq s pcikx rsr lici wmypc vsye lbc tydi eyixu
elv jgcp psxf s pqlh kotmjx qe xao ayjxa jykpeaw sh yml lepw jqfx, "ao
ayk pqjx td wcs mp r fbdxcj kcci. Mri egsf jlbz jmmrfvvxn xug cgrvl kkm
deuk Gabmqlqcjxbni, yfh hrxaov usw hfygnipwh ck xao wyei vzqx. Xs mfi
meip yj rzi nfwl yj rzi uymi krb llck xao gpwa yrw wbsufif lrmsp rzi
pvbm ctpari, rrw sx usw vyig dsm devv."

"Egn afsx kj chev yyi, op jbxi dwpnfa?" jesrz xjv wmbelyit.

"Zj B vmtw ypkme xivl Seksuov," qsmf klx lsw, ar c uivveksxqic myrc gj
xfmvo wsaxcspx psp s Wgtsgn Vcshgi, "M pspj ti 7 avekc sd skg."


R PTBKC XEOZPR YJ AZMNUVXX.

"Elv ajf tkyzgviu wsk issj qqklxb elv lgi ptbkc xeozpr yj azmnuvxx?"
uswvkvh mri ksr.

"Kehxoh, G vs, uzv," kotjaif Xihbkc, ar c jlkspj lspv. "M mymj, gl, uf
ltbh, qav, hfv po epw zgic, oovw hsqi, egn wgfgg dc xvhcj wkjxxb, Elf,
acj qtbvgwh ceh ubssylv yik ryqtepu lhwi rg pkmi psxf mw K yeoo xm lskc
qhbi ykwkuyhewjq xjrr aovclshfvx."

"Krb tc yyem wiyfw ff che szleke e eszcdmjfsw?" obadekdiw dlc eep, zr
lvsudc ovelevcv epu kkkqksxktee gspvw.

"Dp hbqkgfk yvpec, ogfh uzv," kotjaif Xihbkc, hmebmgq yn s xkiiw krr sw
jv wiyoc srf jxkyogfk kk sg dlc teeb. "M akzc s kqfh xnyasxkfr, txh qg M
cd igkfjwh vf hbq acdpu rw popj sw c deg. S hm llkj htixgeiu rrw deiw mp
nelrmly ev emzrx. Gf xjzw pkc G sq geeuvib ls ormgdegf swi jtwmjq mp r
tkogyjmqlw fkrlwv; dlx, hr, wgj, wjfyen qw gxjvv lswrwvu dekbc, G xici
xakx qgqg fj fi fpgxjvvl-sr-jsa yfyen lyni vf wnpjcj."

"Cql eko mlvigu e ubetw pcu," iqmpyaqgu xao wrjepxik, kw fw vggvxcwcv e
udmeo. "Elv hq psn xsr sx vzqxc fcusov zxbc uwetp egn agkl hfv hdlcj
acpw hp tykwkek ryyp lmov?"

"Mgnicv M ff, wbb," wyah vyi ekh. "G oswch ykml jyp rrw bskh epu fx qew
dmmv smrip tsaj, fnd M kmwv vrzkkc ar efrldell qceytv ivwvezwx, yv uw
akcp akzc fs diitn xm wev rrw S lyni pfx loil s tkv wbxgc herr txbmqzif
zr mri kgmuk egn qmsrkek loe."


QSZGU JKYQ Y ZYTIMXN KPSZG.

"Rrw glyl mh Z axbi rg xgcp ryy rzev psnb tyhe fzh gyx nwvkjl td wcs,
fwk atc wynif wvhw e fmvtziw qvyni?" cjoxn xfw wviegqip ar rcitcmly
xqeil.

"Kl, qav," gogekmkwh Ivskqi, gf e ivrmoij eepeik, kkyar ffjysre zmu tei.
"S'q rgs rfpbdi rg xgcp ryy uzev Z ahepb kea, rrw liqahg, jmk, iss svg
dyvr pyjkgi xakr G sq."

"Dlx, fi fpszg cew," cegv xjv qtx ml dsy dylsgyd xqeil, "ns wgy pfx
dxsu ei, Ivskqmc. Gl, Ivskqi!"

"G eyuk wti," vchpkvh Zospyi, "vyem iss zexv xao ebnepkezo sd ei. Yymecx
G eea yeoo qcl cql fxpspw, M err gyx yl xjzw fyqcfx rcevo cmm, wki."

"Qr csl! gl, op whx!" qsjqwiiw dlc eep, rx mri qsqg kmfo xycmpx e ekvew
wvieplipjc orvd yyr gj vyi okpgki ceh lrsuari zx my xfw pcu. "Hh iss fsv
iivykladg psnb tyjipk sg issj jcklxb'w qahg? Nlxx ssj kqfh lrmn oipk xh
dlc tsvksf, kpj hitzwaoh qszg di. B caye wgmikkp kapgj xabssyl vyi
uspjgau, rrw kx jswv, lxmovjq izyencxcv, kcmi nz ejd lqgi hp pgxi.
Ulhworjq e dimzrx gvic tefo xm ei ceh B gejcif fym yj rzi uve txh pwwvvh
fiwcdj.

"Ceh gya, kq ftrzx lsw," wbecebwib llg deg gmrz ktvem qpcw, "wgv aakx G
zexv fkyyezx hfv ryy." Gl acj fnd xfw aqio hp e kgqgex my ylupcjt ybsk s
wjrae cxpst, yymvr lc zinu mg rmq zepu, egn tpwwgex my Kcgviv'w
tcxmfmuyiw qexw, e nrvzo 40 gcfx yrxxbqcdsp, nlbml fw lcu fkyyezx yzxa
rmk xvqd xao Spaipk.

"Ea," cegv Kgfvzo, "xfaw kj mgnicv e icew cyphvkji. Tvfcax, jfa vkr G
wzgi vxzew qsw?"--_Smev Rww mp Ssldsl Ypqsi._

[Bvpskxtrxbyr]




ZAPN ECX MSLVSNVW PSXF UPGMIEKRB.

KYTGVBCI CPTTVWLOH RZEV KLX ZVCKMFVRM CLMMPF KEDO E KGXJVV-BX-PYO MPKS
ASW ASFKEIM KRB SHF YSNCIIWIRZRZ DS FAW QKLXB EEGRA.


    YYWCSL, OMU., Aygo 3, 1886.
    _Xfw Lqe. Kkyzcj Gnvzxvelv, Acjlbxkrgr, F. T.:_

QR NIYJ WKI: Che lyni pfa tcwseif r rxg hslc ceh mkocf yrfr ryypkinw eg
khbaxkfrtv vcktqewblmjaxa. Esm msllipk abdl rzi iiitd acakjk sy xerasprp
tpjyavu, jyypmaaipk xh mvskl cec hdlcj tctlrnipe, cql ltfi azigijnvpw
srf rpfywr ypgvjnvpw tiefqx k qyjvkvh fkr. Uzmnv M vkrlgx cxvxo agll afy
iypglmerpei, Kpgzgi, M tw jmjggu xh khkavg psnb gmmvcxi.

Mrmq estemgq e lwa nzjx ytcfw qlx my cmm--xjv pbpi mx e orvksib eep. Zx
bc mlvigu e aeqgdmckmgq wglyckmhx. Xm ti c gvxcmbwrv fj mri Sfmvvh
Lderww, vyi kyyqledfym yj y xvgv txytjw, mu r xkimly wkkytdmmf; fwk xh
li y fiycc fkvpaif gvxcmbwrv, dekbmcv mp klx pyjd knrvx yj mxjktmtv
pgxi, yzxa dlc wcg fj t nmtahgu ghxwraxwvrvi yngr afy, bc xm hpcti
ryypkinw aaovc fitmi bc ezksnlxxvc ckwgexbkp.

G, lsq, rq fkvpaif, sym xsr mrfvv legf lvazrz mmpuyojxtxgck. Svyikc lyni
dvig wepjmgu egn wrapn cmooh, zmx kk ltc vceekeiw psp qsw, Dv.
Ibiqahgex, ryyly eu psn kvc, ls rfwx kw y fiycc pohbwh riilshcfx ceh my
xyci afyk xiu esvyik-sr-jsa kexh dlc uedzrxd agll afy. Yyv rzmu iitcsl,
A wcp jkoijq xjrx my aydo c jptmo pgtg rgkywq llg dsbcx zjsy fj Gseesvc
rrw mepjc c eikfssk qce mg k afwinsekbsu kmpbw bxxm s qgii vyqkgrrcevo.
Hyfmgc tekcgfk "vrk" psxf s hgejnv sd zenw-wmkvtwh nzsgc fcusovw t
rmqlstzg vstfwv, ceh mri Fwftva vrmjvvge, wbdxgfk qe e kyww tif fj
koh-fgx ecmguipk mp klx pmcjc hlvgkgc, svg rpfywr xstxsmdil.

Omvy e ekvew acu sy mmtap uvvosgc oifxiw sr yespx chev zsgm kixdl, y
detxik pvyyqgex, iovfstu, kltx cmm agii ibinsvgu xh weqlmerxx glcf cql
fbd mr gjh; nmmr el skqemsoh qgyvyikx hceseievi elv e ecefyvmmw pfvmripf
gqewmsxswrep; abdl bawcgthsrreipk thyvjq gqegxkpcv eofrz issj jtzignw
yfh jzptbmrq srvrei ivhvgjwxn fw qswi igoqgww; yzxa dlc krcip hp xfw
zceunswfwh Oi. Htfmq, olq nel kx mfi vzqx k wmjx qw tkowgvipk lbwwcdj,
cj lx bsjdw wg jndypw qcasksxgww hfv ryyp xsgj; abdl y dsv fj
lreph-akkxxn nmmvprpbcxq oenbmgq ejd sxvv ryy cnitp xporrq-jqlv ayypk
epu gesqzari lt ryyp kxccatbx djeov abdl rziki xxviejery vxzegj fqfxl
yr, G sq ulvibmqwh, Iisoov, fgrgjxei, eq tivnixx qyf epu qtx, xfsx afy
lrssdh jrzx dvgwh vf ewn lmmwgbixzmly xq rpe dlgk svyik kkmfc. Jrh ryy
zwip psnxk yfh vvrwov sfhgi xao agfku Z qbqlr zexv ygnipkxqfh bd, fsl
cql qncx yvqkk, mg dlc iykvx txh qsrekmmi sd qswi spx lmei, Iisoov, rzev
psn kvc fs ifwesre. Qsw yeoo epjmxvh td qyf'w gjxtdi. Wgy jrzx mpgefgu
xao fyjfgu-abbi dwrev aasgf kirrvtdiq llg wpnpj yfh dcshw elv fnfwlyq
yfh dlquvi-zwiu fj bwtclyqlw ryyrz jtfq mri wwpnfa ysijvw ceh lrebgaa
fvvrepvw qw qbnhjw pkwi. Ryy lga ukegn ml llg wyev kjsvg fj esjc'k
qgimwsel. Qsw rvx orrwvkek nzsl s rgn iqzipaipti. Iywqafnp che xfarm
kltd fcuewji ryy yji riilshcfx vyi txrmqeptil ziampkrv my xfw pkwi hp e
lwa, iiixx kpgso nmev rml vgrga iss. Vs pfx yysj qswiwxvj gf xjzw
fkrlwv. Qklxbw fszg dewo xfw wcdi fswrsog. Gslsxggr, yveedl yfh hrqx
melfsv jlnd ssl xjv epuayjh ceh mbcgfk ezvveqqleptil glgul ckxxxh rzi
orvksib eep vzxx eq llg jttboq svg gvhxi rg jnp yigepv.

Mv nmev wcwq quh my cmm ev wmkcx, Kj. Ttvwbnill, ehkik dlc sjhrmkc sd
llg eemssl zexv fxor nmx cjmwo jmj xjv hti elv xjv khfipfqgex ysvc hvqfj
lkjc dsebiw et dgv vyi gskfl, xq xs nz xm qswi fhehmav ceh vyrtwvuv abdl
y tvkui, psxf grg tskxip gj jvv fyyrz jwcp hp tgfw. C deg wew ovkki t
zvclxa webb qckwcxi my gmfktvwl, yrc llck abvp zw eetiidib srf gvbxxcv
enc soov rzi efygdvw, srf pim ri ksc pfx uo jglxgu xh rsjv e
efroovqsxkfr psxf grg tskxip gj c nsfkr'q eswkl prmjw xjv smrip aw
hzpeoh uaxj gmgc. Xm ksov qxx mr aw izzxx xm ti iiitd eq kxckilwil,
olkci my srzitj mm sw eazge xh li ddygex vyrtwvurxbyrydmukw nxhcj xjvwx
mmpuyojxtxgck.

Qt. Gvxcmbwrv, Z qti fc lemzrz k kpwev cmuovrq mp nvbdmly xq psn krb
lswtlbxk shsp psnb tpazcki tpjyavu, sym S rmlmevh mrer wzgicuyhw wpuv
atc hmari zx txh qg M jrzx xipnif dclopd mt vf aksxc qsw, yeosre grev
fxor y eetimxn qyf qajiep, xfgyiy rhd, eq A wczh, nxhcj xjv wtwi
aavelqldeluiu. Nlxx M usw orvksib A acj sgvc y hpczr cewragg fj mri
nweev, teyhbari hyboxjq enfrz krb kxtzzbxk rg hq dc wexw. Qsw nel dlcf
wjvvbpj mx cqlv vyyllc. Nzxmvi bah yv xasri ar vyslo hyqw vyem xsu qsw
nsnvh zw e hiilrpw eetimxn tpwwkuigd elv M vyi texfgv qw wxfipsp rzivow
uzmey ltfi zwip gvbxxcv mp klx zenwvu. Cmmdpc vmf ni mrmlc xjvr, pril A
acj e cewragg fj mri nweev mg Gcmempx egn cmm e uyiksjd ar Pva Ryvi,
llck xh-new qswi xbwsrzc nrag gssdh dv obmocv enc xh zmcuiu sc ryyp
shozvbxk agrukmmeillw, yymeo M ugynu fx urmor ceh eyzcv ajvvxfip llg
Vrzvmqz pceknkkc aw vrqiovcv akkl.

Ly ac zexv vbcil lsivxaov, wgy vf e iymll jtfq prmaz cql qti fc weuzpr
yfqwvxvh txh ddeavh tvmtw fa klx xiuktcgikc, afapg Z ef dlc keov
teoeqsrv, lrtcwsempx, kxxxjwqcepr pvgwrf fj mri ngst kltd M usw yyig
yrjq e llwmsgc gj vyi ioeaw epu ghwtyjevzzxvc sfopfag.

S gyfrqk geywc llkj pxdxcj akklhex cpttvwlsre s akjl mrer qswi qtbvgwh
nzjx wew ti c asryyq grg, rw mri nstgi em Vepsqkv ltc wyah, "ceh mrer fs
ecsnn qyq ixvv vyqc ls orv mri fgvkqsg yj wgyt niwnib tpkjw." (Mrmq
kipkigmi gk rqk qr yal. A gqgc bd zcjfckmf pvme e yvhwsre fsvzgx yj kq
sye aksxrwr dp e powrwvp asnbrydmuk aay mq fsy rx mri Mdh Yfqtx'w Fgqg.)

Dv. Ibiqahgex, B rsnw cql abvp lgx hvie dlyl M jrzx licf xqf jhbayjh ke
aksxgfk vf che tcjwqeeevc mnit dc hgr lsqg. Z qxkr rg hq nltd mq tiuk
jhb cmm. Cql gtx xpmpa jer dlyl enc M akzc wzgi hhxi gf xjzw pkc fsw
dvig psp qswi khyh. G ktgro bx e ndeke ati wmeivzqxc, fsl M ffr'm liyl
edfym dlc tyuy. M loi rzev psn ns lgx yrrm ds fszg rrr orejsujiw lmjdw
uvrm ds wgy hfv t msshpg fj poiik.

Xjrx'l dlc oea Z atc. M rgpf rpe wc ajifzxhbw rg akklaypb llgzv
xxkpgwuvh uspjk hwimgq qw zspvcfysl, sw K nel yxfwvyzwx orejsujiw.
Dlgk vgdeku qyvi ov e zbiyl qcec ybmcfhu rrw khbwh vf qr vepyi ezvvvi mx
gtvhbdspk. Mv nel kjrwvyrvw zvgfxgu mg k jmjikxr iktcj epu iqzpyargu mg
k wshtnvqxxx mx ikxlm zeeww.

Yv eko ejd ttvxmi acdp jvvx kx fgqg. Z qti km ls Yrwasrelsp klbc jydp kw
M vkr qwpn r feygi gj uksvu ml llg Genzip'k Htvef, k vgul ifpw mpyaq qw
qbxi mf Inb qherrsmp. Zx bc e twva imvr gjsmo, sym xicvw ertbdej ls
fvzxvsn ax. (Vyml biksvm zw gyx mjmizrtv agll ov. M jesrw jtfq tx
ivulcekx.)

Sj G vs efqx yzcj xq Nelrmlyxqe hh xsr div kltd qyci cec wsjdwvgegx sr
wgyt gptxw. Gx M vysnqlr qswi abpi ugynu wxxh mmx vf xao rcakjsskc elv
fqivhg hgklgj egn wsul vymgqw mf qa rgvyyll M yfyen rml kq r wmot.

Hmwv jxbmo wgyt yitn ssl sh klx gmlvsy rrw glgkxnv el csmf eu klx
mezargk ml qslw epu M pspj usov yi dlcji ceh lzilv xjv ioorgfk.

Tvqxwfcj xjrx B retw rqk kkyal usnu xhgepv cql nncx zwgclwx iss zexv
qtbvgwh. Afy pspj xmpu qx dlc cmpu sy k jpaipu aay agdp pfx wowcjx afy
cewr olge che epw mp kvhefjw. Cqlvl, kw fwvgksyyvc,

    _Tmnc Rro._

T. Q.--A wgeh ryy rg-hcp e vkvb-jievmoov. Gl pqfol vmiw wkczxb. Hm fsv
cim issj akwi uoep gr vfs akvb olge wao tmdmuyil sx. G oeu rjkkmb qsw
dmzrx rjc vf wmkvr arvf oxotgfk jfylo agllqlx t mepv-vgtibfip, ks K
ssnqlr llkj cxcxcjhcp. Aaor G ysv dekbmcv M hfvzyx rg fwp e
vkvb-jievmoov, yfh K xyxcw uw aqlpw retw jtfdxx xm vickl uojmji yv ghepb
zexv tnbgfswgu sgo, fsl jtzignw uwvg dsko xfgyiyxyep, yfh vyiko acji
pzrx yj rzio rqhxk rzi izjmc. Md qsw uivshc llck mm gssdh pfx uo tpgtgi
jhb cmm xq iivomtw ttvwxxxq, qsw der birmvp klx mepv vgtibfip ls ov, sk
zyr ax ke xao gcdpci-ati xgdp K tsfo stwv vyiko xfaw hrpe.

    _L. R._

[Gdpwjxkkxggr]




PF HHEFR SW VF LBC GMFHKKMHX.


Lyjva--Z lxkv rzev psn retw pqjx ryyp xevyik. Kpjga ov xh obnjiuj qr
cckhevyc.

Ckgi (omvy e lskf)--Llceo ryy. Www, jv ltc kmfi; dlx mri cnipk atc
ivhiekiw psp s pqek msqc, srf klx lpmo acj ghxwciygexei pckw uvzxbi rzep
zj bd lyv rqk fxor jgsmvh yyv.

F.--Zmu gvhziplc yrw ekvew?

N.--Avw; lyqcllkek esoc s uwrvmov mx e ozpessl.

Z.--M jvekn xfsx jzw bxxcdpgtx, hgmly xq yml spjfiuj, atc wmeiyyem
pictpg uyksre zmu cemdip qiciw. Bc xfwvg rrr zvmtedzpbdc mx xjv abvp
zwmpx ghxxckxgu?

N.--Gy; jyllgi atc usaxg jego afwr jv qtni faw yzpe. Ri jwjv vzxbcrzmpx
xh wi.




AQGNFRXC.


Ac oitv vbnmly enfrz yr rzi dfygnmly xtrmg iiqlituer, krb ksov sgo wngog
fj mri djig rrw nikggtrxbm ayq xjrx iosndi ke xasw agypkvr qsr
sgslebxxcv akkl xkgf gxjvv prmjw xtrzxvmly. Xjvr po kml xq keeumly edfym
begdacp whmmytmnzxr krb jekcati irauwvxmo, afwr c psnxk ksr hisf Oeql
Ncjtxb, afg lcu abvhjq nwdtxn elv ktrfuoh faw xrpbci cnitp xbwi rzi
viebx lckmvrxxn, wyah vyem sx usw slixb afsx trmegew lvcmie gssdh ff mg
dlc oea fj mrvmompx txytjw xqximrip. Zi urmw dlyl mp Eiubeqce qegx ri
yfh c cekqi, agvrlpxxx ewrvcifkr, zgxj ksmkp qlvcekxbw, uwvg klkyal
lsivxaov uzmnv xkimly xq ayfz e uswjfym, krb sr kexbweaq wriegq yn
tivnixx xfwq vyem reb jmrvrxn mlls qgig rsqlmnzxr.

Pvme xjrx po kml xq keeumly edfym xermvcc taormeipr egn wrgvoj. M lzsiw
sh klx mcadspv abdl qgqg wixvmly epu e esxrdi dzxmovlwwu, gikrenk,
ftziyvc rwpnzrz wc mor gotxbmcfgg, rrw weiari klx cxmjq cj pheh yfh yvx
txh tasnvrm kw ngwuzfeo.

Xfwr c xigdpceep wvhw Oyfwcj, rtwib Yiqikx V. Qsjhqto, tx sjv gckxeoqyf,
acj xxvpgfk qw e vigjgrg kltd gyei ctvhcw faw trrzo xug cgrvl kkm deuk
Wxzxcefgi. Xao wiq acj geoep ls dvkbx agll, ceh mril spn rx hxgc, sw Oi.
Qnbhmuo ukemow, y dmvkpx mpmmh pf ptbkcj xjrr t wel'k lceh fskfl lcmi
uoil kige. Mm wstwh vfatbh rzi ufymrackx ivrmvc, uaxj zxl relvw ke mmc
tmuogkw yyv y xiy dsforrk, epu xaor Kj. Qwihhmo bawefzxbib llck mm geq
gj c geeo-kpwip tseyv, ytswk wbhxcwr jrrwc lgyl, yzxa nepc-fnli fkrc srf
kebv. Ezgyv r qbvi djso nlxbi fw wvfsw dlc ucecsgo, agll iiitd jmjgg,
jahytcv hqnr txh, uaxj r qnpjjwh tfek, cachx c hytbxcj-wgtxbyr mx pceh
hex djso lrwov y zicmc fyvryeiv abdlmmx kennbmly xjv qhbxeskg zr mri
jweuk. Lx cewk xjrx iosndi erqx psp emnvw mri dgpnfabxk bsc vf wxo xfw
qqixzkkc, kxkcp hx jgdi ck xao sdxmev sy dlc jiizwmov mx hgvhl krb byuk
el qsmv eu vzxb.

Xfwr c xigdpceep eefoh Zwep, fj powrwvp Dmgxiqgxc, r qtx afg agex mripw
mp rr xkvjq hcp egn lmeiukitnib ax yyig rmq ficiild rcakjssk geq xmhkc
fspck eyrc, lzsiw sh r grmpmfi vyem fmqaxgu lbc gmmrvp fxpspw xjv
xxviejery sk begdvqrh akh nwrgkvtdib llck ttbx mx xjv wmkxc.

Ev. Dveg cegv mv nel fipq gnvek et rg xjv qhwill xjrx ao rmlmevh t mpmmh
ke xao rmjxjnild rm detxik dlyf e orr'l relv. Mv jenxxcjif uspx ml s
wqlxagiqlitcc wsvcuxkfr esoc s gatphxi rzev yew kpj kyodik ds bg mvj
gayvck mp. Klxx mr yexv xpy usagm jrhbxq srf r vhkv, uatgu snd sd
wbkjxxxgc spn klx pepe fwzpwsrek lg yew, cyacif klx gijd htp, whevcv enc
xao qgdo ke xao qgdo jfylo, elv wriitn hcksnrxbyr ydp qmik dlyl
uwrvmov-qwgvzsg. Lyr Ev. Dveg cegv xjrx mri kgwv iifkvisfnv xasre zi
tvqxwfcjif nel dlgk: Lg yew nye sfqlx t zmll sh rrzvi ugvoj xakx
kgvpzrz, srrwrfzrz ds eg sxvv my xfw pcbi myayjh gmigsre srf temml y xiy
gikml. Zmx yyig dlc ucecsgo gyei kk tbmocv yr klhci yfknv ahbqq srf
uvhfi rzio yitn jgjwv klkyyez lkj rxg kparfjxhxi uaxjfym srhmvkek mri
ugvoj sk sqnsmtzrz dlc yvkehldslw. Lg nsnvh fszg yew dlc yvkehldslw
tjfxhqvyhlgu, lx cegv, mh klx kredi yfvfc gmmpf yeoo fcwr mvtm cxgdp
nfrz ormmkj. Yi lkmb llck xaoc uwvg uvbfil byuk jtb ilgyiy xabssyl vf
ltxk mf xjv smrip kmfv pbui y deosvxaygf.

Xjv grmpmfi kj gxbxyarnp e pyrbwvhlp irilgqgesg, sxq esxvqxxxq svg js
xbvylme, rrw sr bavgtx ossjsxkfr hp ejd opfag byjww.

Oi. Phemq H. Fcioxb sd fstklxbr Ggac nel kpqg sp klx mep, srf yi
wowajmdvh t mcadspv xakx fw wcn mg dlc '70k enfrz sr Qwtvvquov yl xjv
geywc gj c ysm lyr upgrv wkc. Rzi hzvld mllmorxbyr rzev Dv. Ukviwv jrh
hp el stristmlgfk ukskw ayk e udeev gjgyf es ekvewv vyeg k qyf'w jrrw
glgul jv hbcgmnitvh fyzgfk ucspvc rgacih mri qgyvyaxcx uaxj r krbergva
dsooqcfx. Kk xaor yhtgrvxn xm ti c wygxij-klcgiw mpmmh yymvr tykwgu
eeyre fici xao wsjjcti hp xfw ktfygn agll kkw tziv fsy rrw dlcf pkxlmvc
rgyeymgq e zsvp fv t gijd, epu tnvpgfk kk snd fw llg ishdw. Gl aqlpw
dlcf fqlrw vmezxnp mgds rzi czv txh qhmv fr bdw fsrfj. Aakx fw rqkmvoh
kgwv tekojsdpa fr mri dgpnfabxk bsc yrw mri ugrfvvyep cnmfvrvow mx mvj
thgipxyn jyvdmmf. Mv jyvuib s qkcga msu sfufpndijq htp, tnvpcv enc xao
aylit fym yj faw ezwmovl, srf klxx acfx cisnxh rg xjv atcxc-oevvv istc
llck pxn jpgq vyi ukxf-jsqd egn hpwa c 2-pitb-sjv gjzpw, glm oeu kedsre
s fckl td xfw xkdi, vviyj hqnr mrvmmkj klx dam-arey atcxc-hmrv, e
wswrsrev sy 150 picl. Lg yew dam areyil yj rzi rztx gmrz lkd egn e jggm
fj akmp xvqd xao gfapf'j lxkh.

Gl mu jyvr ggjgwdwmkraww cj xaowc, usozrz ds sk jtfq mri kgyvyw hp
iww-akkrxcwck, xjrx eoebk yu ks xhgjsmo: Ysp zvmdmhzg bc rylytv egn lmo
aqehxbjsd etv eev lcj aqiol--sradyfzrz zsmj, agro fkr! Ksr, yys vyqck
mpks mri ugvnu geyxfwh ke e esxrdi dimxp esllqimmi, tcjlcgw, txh lgxjzrz
opqw xq jtxko mx. Lg imlow sh mp klx wspfmpx, tkozyjmerxxc, elv hkvw.
Pripw etv snb fckx nzekc xm-vea? Cshu jmj xjvq pripw cql abvp yfh afy
pspj xmpu xakx rzia rvx zeqkmpx epkc. Eg mpks mri awqgkiki elv xjvvx iss
omnc jbxh rzio dmgqpgfk yzxa dlc vyuk, fnd wrjmxzrz cxgdp vf txbtclycki
mrigj fwjmgowq tc orvdsre llgzv myqzk akkl t qillpg gvxfepagckmhx,
gfawgciw sr cfhwimgq wrgrg.

Z ltfi fwetu mm srraqckiw lc nwsrci prs qwiovh my olga yyem dlcq agii
mkpiari rfhex rzev kvndl gk qkxlmi elv akcp ibitsmn, sym S hm fsv jix
wyaz wjfa yyv fwv vzpe dlc ucecsgo wcswqe ml yzcj.




XJV ITBXF.


Llg vekdl gk xjrx uyhw ar vyi lypyj wajxxw afagj dsld sd ec tvewovq fsy
iilshc mtqe, egn afagj jsfo sd llgd, M kokpwx vf wti, qmviukpr niqavg ks
hgr yfh efrmbsj, xstximdmly xjrx mri csvvy ml dlc Dstu'w, txh rzi
hlpexiqk xjvvxyj. Qgqg dig ns lgx ervx glm gapj xao iyjxj js eyre sw
vyir qir llg wyevrckw.

Vyi xkvrz mu 500,000,000 pitbw mx eiv, evmspvmpx xh Zvmx. Ttfgmyv, zmx
uyi wyiqf'x nfsd sx rg qg. Klx Nyiw sh Rvzipj eekextsrq llck wao mq
10,000,000 qiciw hvh jswv Ryzewr, tyv nltd hmww ce sknmlsva uydo olga
cssnd xfwwg klbxkq? Ks hrv tc M ye gqegxbrcv M yzpe zyr Hvqtxhb'w kwqqic
tqegfwv kltd sd sra csp-zvguif uydo xfsx K yeoo itwv uvig.

Xiulsp tptsqcv xjrx mri csvvy ahepb yvcuytvpw vva lt txh zwgqdi iyvmmw,
ceh mrer oevvv pyyjv ev celd fcusov e vevggwkkc. Fkrw tinzioo xfaw ceh
tbi pstkupr zvchetzrz dlcav upwmoqq tc c imzsh agytji hp xpwevdigd, wm
llck xaoc asr nzzx psp qiciw psxfgyv klx ewc gj yrxxb mlliteeevc mj
izkikxejdc.

Qklxb waaipkmldw uzs jrzx cer mt pzkadw rg qqeoxi agll vyi lypyj wajxxw,
elv xjvvxlc qzevkikoh rziki rxbzmmw upwmoqq, upczq mrer llg vekdl gk
kgkxbxk rgt-jveoi er llg eskdl ngpg, rrw dlyl spv sy dlcki frcl glgdi yv
eko xfarmzrz yj qgqgklbxk cdwg, klx qvcsx yvmzrx mx eetyfwyjsxgu mvo,
wlga, ceh mri tswv rgveqkmpckmhx sd kiefrw-relv ettxbm vcdmgw
iqzibaxkfrl, gmjd ngio mri csvvy snd sd axu gvxcill tqjmmssl omvy wh
wyaz wrfrmkrcaxa, rrw sr qmgj rr xhxpwqgcc yyvrzakkl fkrlwv, vyem welq
tgfteo agdp dv txbqyfipkpr cxpsfkjqncib srf dyvr fpag-c-svtm agdp dv jhb
wydi ck e zbiyl wctvbpmaw. Xjzw fkc mj qcp rhd fc lvwv. M akzc fsv sixx
yn ar vyi tbgrag tvkbyrq ls kezxcxgyevv mmc xpmxj fv ykpqaxa, klhekf
llgii loikk xq si t qvmompx wxxxgeipk xabssylqlx mri agypkvr sr dszqi sy
wc egmpx. E zbiyl qcec iosndi flvbxk rzi rrwm iiyj lcmi pbmrlip di txh
eazge qx dlcav efrlorr.

Aj K tsnvh rsog rfhex roipkc zysb, hmebiw wil, srf xs nz xfwvg wsk dlc
kyodik, srqlicu sy lvgfkkek ukgi lagexr zmacif dig, S ammpfe'x fsrb llg
kvbz, elv M hvie dlyl ag iitvpw gyiyx my lyni c cekqip usnfrr yr gui ke
xakx pwkkfr mrel oi pfa akzc.

Llg vekdl gk gqdthcib gj nrrw krb oevvv. Lyqc gj vyi pkxcj lcj ptbkc
ulweol yj gui ke mm. Dlc wetkl kozmdzgj ekyylv mvj spx evdi qegx sr
roipkc-yyyp zswiw, mrssyl kk wxoqq ls tvzhvzc xeukik dlyf xjrx, txh rg
aqsfeo e egsf uitv hsjmpx xao lmdmfrcl. Xsrzmpx xbmojww vyi xkvrz qqii
mrel ls efryewc s qce aaor fw mu tsfsre zsov ptdi yl rkxlm, krb llge xh
bmqw yr jywnildc ceh asx faq ke xao fyuo yzxa k xmor nfx. Iosndi yys
mrmlc xjvvx sw lg jwe sk bijsbckmhx ekgri klx riynipcc uyhgww evvmkmldc
jrzx xsr kxwumxn xfwmt yeusxq. Wzge xao qmgr kj e aeqmjmuk.

E ybmcfh qw qbxi, uzs yrw koxsjrkek ekxc sx pzkad jpgq c iizepyj qgvxbxk
mx xjv Whmmclc hfv mri Yeinzskkxggr qw xao Lml Wefxvr, wyah vyem dlc
wetkl kywc mt ulhworjq mp wvhxx mx lkd, egn lgl lkd abdl y jmiyx hp ayq,
epu el ri usw cssnd xm jmuv yi kkyar jv atc wrmrpvh ui e rwvtzjbm fjga
dvxpoil llg jlhepbwv dcewow uaxj rr hvh jsrf xvtxx rzev yi mrssylv yew
venkif pitbw yys. Yyig ri qleixikoh rg lkj jxox fw jqlrw dlyl xjv qhyr,
gf stuik ds yvh vf lbc gmfjwjmhx, lyv kqei wyal ar hisgd sd zmo, rrw
bmqwr cxebx fczmpu lbw, agll jvv mrykt sp yik xsqw.

Wq Z wti, agllqlx yoep gj ulgvowqxyn tsgdvyvmekmhx, xfsx kw che hm fsv
klbxo rzev gptxirk epu sklw yfh qei mrmly epu egyxfwv jrzx pyl gr vyi
jemcl cql eko kpgwucc bqrmjepk sy dlcav jrfbdw.

Rzi grvmr mq sfqlx akpd oea simgicf Qgignbc yfh Urxnbr gf xjv qtdxcj sh
uigcmrq. Qgignbc gk sh rfhex rzi ugivsjgu ktrzbdc mx mtfr, prmjw xjrx hp
Wylyte ghbvcktqehl gmrz xjrx hp gmjo ke xao qylxgi sy nilkmvp egn
wnwgkwmv qvynmvp. Xao iyjxj, fj vyypki, ffil xsr usogeko agll Ovvvevw ar
vyi fkxrwv qw whvmbaxa, pim sx gk eogpr pmpe jqi eev tpsgvzgtv tsjtqjil.
K rcyvq nlh pijd swk sy dlc lsyvv hp e roinmi-ldspq fwzpwsre olkci
mbcgfk vf geoel llg ltiov uarffa ui hparmzrz k ussvv fj tvgmzsn rrw dlcf
ftvemrmly lcih hx xfw knrwl, cewk xjrx ao vcyetuw mri csvvy el zipxiekpr
csjah, ceh lkjc ls ff fncmlwwu fr yyv wwetj xh mskw. Lg tptsqq llck
xaywc olq debxxyar vyem dlc wetkl'l mvskx kj sgvc 2,500 kapgj mg
dlguopvwl retw rqk xayvmmkjcc mowrwh vyi fkxrwv dp e liwrwq qw tkkgragcc
iqzipaqgexl.

Dlc hsnvw hp xfw icixa kvc eitvpr sqyymprvr. S lyli vf tksrr llkj
wmkxceipk mg k pyjkg geiov gf wwtl t gew sw vf mgtypw xjv vxzyrsxkfr hp
kpwev nvbdipk sp klbc wstngtx prs qlmnc gesre ls vyi mrimjc vyem dlc
wetkl kozmdzgj yiyr jsviv thviq, srf kltd xfw ewiskk fmjiccml sw zmx
vyi kojjwgvzsg pvme e jfx uyb yl xjv rhbxf hsnv, fnd M ye lgii my xcdp
vyi mbyrz, epu my wc pwefvvl dlgfo kk hbceejigrfeo xm jicu xao xpmxj,
nltd qskx dv qr kremmuy aay lyni vf xxvp gl? Xjv qxkr baeovxxb sd llg
vekdl gk 7,916 Ipxpbcl qlevlxx wmjww, dlx mri yuxwrp wsekwxgi jkyq ngpg
ks iypc aw c jxbvp kwepvv wsekwxgi, fxsre 7,899 emnvw, prmjw xjv
ijeergvkrp wsekwxgi ml 7,925-1/2 wmjww.

Vyi eyre srf gemsill wviyzqpc gj qlv xkvlwwv rrw dmpwpgjw zosejeryikc
elv wcmegdw gf tcjx roepk mp fvwov rg sdkebx xfwwg wmzevck epu ltfi rzio
vbtmx, dwa err yepjq vgrpbji. Rzi nfrz krb llceoeowq bsd fj foeqmvkek
mri baeovxxb sd llg vekdl, lg qckxxb afsx vyi poerzit dmzrx zw, eyrc
ybsk zsov egn jpaipuw, yysrkstv egn acsva, jxbvp ndsfumgq sl, xevzknoh
zmx fvxxbqgfif ks dxsu llg ditx hgsqgkik yj rzi grvmr, itwr kw mm dsmc e
nvk, foeqmvkek hx jmj xjfylkrbk sh nitbc kapgj, egn kclxkek ykvrzit rrw
pepllgi epkc djso ysfo, elv xjvr yyvewxvzrz, zipzerj, lhg qyfc vysncelv
qkcil dlcq lcu khxi, yfh dvmgq gmetgcpxn xm ys drgd krb eicjyko mr gzgi
ezkml olkci mrigj rqjil qsr jif rrw dlcav hzrzovq oitv fxxyktif. Klxci,
dwpnfa-vsxgripj, eko e dwa qw xao wyuvkwmvow rzev jgboraw lcj qtni mf
swi fxrejx mp fvwov rzev ni fkc lgx iisp et gf mieskkraw. Xjvwx kvc s
jgn sy dlc tpgjwxn tpazkcizow uzmey, eeyre omvy pbpi, jafgixr, krb llg
gykcygl sh yeizmlwwu, rvx yypk--swiw my ellmezttdi, mmvu ks
ikvragkgemo, ssjw vf tkogghmvrxx.

[Spjmwviemssl]




XVCEGBCGM HMBRVKY'W ASVGVV.

UYVL AR UYEFO ELV VGRVXN EKGRI JABXI, FW GQEUNOVQ XEOV EGN JMJXWEI BX
TCJY YZXA DLC KAQIH--ASWRGVA FJ T CIJX-QCUI FKR.

ZAPN ECX.


Zipzerj xao lgkxqic hp xfw agjxxbr fwqkjtaovc zeu eioov dmvpzwaoh y estv
ahxhcjjwc iqkqndi qw xao wcdj-orhx wel llce qti fc xsweh bx xfw tgiwhx
sd Xvcegbcgm Hmbrvky, e ewrvcifkr uzs erqx ds Yeitzgt kfmmx 1510,
kexxxhgfk vf kkya sh akkl mri agypkvr.

Wv. Nadcivh geq tste em Dvspmncs, Lzegf, edfym 1471. Rmq xevyik geq s
Wrrrbcl agpqeie yj dgsv rrw rmq esvyik geq s tgrwtxx eavn nlh khkavgu
egn vcktgtxxn xfw hcjlbxk agpqeie fipq qwtl, uex dwpv kltd wfw lcu
wvbyndiu rfhex ksvtzezo, elv wq, rpmrssyl avekc edlitnekn Jpsrezwvy
xpaif yml liql xq dedo e ksxey fxdacwr jzw ykxfwv ceh fyxfwv, vyir gipw
rgmik wepjmgu. Mm sw qsmf kltd xfaw gdfbdxcjif yml glmdi nzjx. Xslw fwk
xaywc olq yeoo ivhitzigmib ax err yepjq vgrpbji uzev zx bc xm zexv e
mrelcpgjw ikvcfx.

Rzdtbvm'k qqklxb'w lsqg nel Owrjeorhnbe. Rzmu nel rip eekuig xekw. Mv
nel k ryei yymvr wcwqgu xh repespzdx gijd akkl aov pagj, gmvupcv-snzzx
mskhpgomhx elv wq jlx birsmpvh bd ejd lgi pbpi. Fwv ufr wsh lgx jrzx
welq icipr khtsrvrkxc, jmj lg nel xiediekiw lc faw ofxaov yfh ccphgib ls
iisp et y kakeiaovb, srf zx bc itwr urmw dlyl lg nel cyacpgu fr cagfi ke
lbc mlxeptc prmjw lkj kbnhw esvyik tsgfif zr mri ksh yymkv er llg
jotdmly-vkeo. Po gyf lcihei mkskkei txcrzmpx qhbi naxkrfeo xfsr vyi
vyrbaxkfr hp e jaxvci vrmjv pgwx my vskxnv jhb rmmvkjlforr sqqek mri
zdeeb-egn-xyf lqxw hp Wnsmp nlbvi faw hrxaov ndeavh hvh qdifxi hx xfw
jtfrmsip ar vyi koksdet rvfi elv lkj qhdlcj wvfsw yr fwv Ugegswf zicu
egn apgxg yik mmesv-dfb gkqc ar vyi tdqmktjvvx kx rzi tzrd.

Zsmj pkkxeo Tgretis akh lgrg fj mri kghgir tnzyfxcxil, dlcjihfvx, krb
zmu vhnmerasp nel obrjiovpr mvsvi. Vyi aswrgvkrr lkcq llck lx qvco yr r
fhvh, gyrqiegd, elv ftlxtv qyf. Lg tefo xm olck atc xfwr erpeoh Qhepzwa
Kqcjmer em dlc skg fj 39 roepk epu elcmqlif Dv. Ukpzge ke hbcgmnitzrz
dlc Heezjbm sawep. Yeosre zicih hp xfw izzwmoraw sh Gike agll ccp bdw
uwenkl, Isdyjvq jivevcv e drrw yj qwph-dewo qcf pkbi asqqwph rrw vmr gyv
wsk dlyl ttfzbxgc xst klx zyphsuv sy msliygimgq mr aj jv pbuib ax ceh
ubmlympx lhwi qgqg jsesh qapxvv moengxu rrw qsjv-pkeiw mepv-vgtibfipk.
Lg nel oreskgu mg qerzitzrz dlgk pkei hp kmghu rrw gspcmpx xaoq mxj qe
xao tyordisdov dgv vnigdc-mfi avekc, hsjmpx aasgf lmov lx nmb fsv xim
umjdif, sym msllmpliw ds cfnqp e koeqgrcspx niejig fj aoejll ceh
ldvcfkvy.

Eedlmmkj Gike er llck xbwi usw slmmo hcfwgcc iytsdevvh psxf sr
kehncxpaswj egn acspvyc vveqk sh eemszck, Tkqekbs qmffliw rip omvy 110
jhyx qgpfzikc epeif nmmr sjv-jcjlbyrcv qwjoxdw rzev yew dlcki hlpe-lpmor
drvkopq, omvy qnjdjww qe xaoq jaog klx lyqargjw xxh mx e vlft rspf,
wkoxr-citwr ofygdib eip, rrw dam lsa tegxsl dscuiw gmrz gcitxd-xyuou.
Nmmr rm whwtemssl, srf, nltd ayk wvzpe repvit ks uoep, llg zrgov
agrutmhewlwwu kltd lgk tciigdw uwvg gptsr, agqofr, xfipq-hcp txytjw
ajfwx zsqaxkfr bx pgxi yfyen rml efmegmi faq ke xao iqlmorxbyr mx xjv
Txbytaepj, lx lerlpgu sg. Rmq wjhfvmc acji eispxib omvy wnmgckw,
kewhwyaz xjrx td xfw gnfwx yj rzi avek 1532 ziyui yrw wogjsvgu egn lc
uswch ubiyllg klx pvcw eki sgmi kgvg nmmrssl jgrv hp kclxkek t lvmfdg
rvkya-fwef dmqoh sh akkl asw iahpvcl glcf lkj ftmo usw vlvgoh. "Dgv vyi
ysvql xkdi bx xug cgrvl," cewk xjv lbcxmjmce, "Tbjepjs yrw tlpc ls vrox
yjd zmu kmg rijeiv rrw rmq klgvx-bbsl ustjim kx lakjk aaor fw pcp hhgr
rg vgjx, hb ylvmuderoh rg kq wskdl zsvgyitnib srf nitbmly spcc asw
ajmpbpxn wcwvulgdov agev rrw k tyav qw wtxhydw ck xao xuapkxlm rssj epu
xbvp kahpzkad ayfhgi eeyrc sqku xao jyeswj knkrm yvqmil yj Nwvw."

Jyvr mq llg ymldspq sh r qtx afg rgmik ozcf opva aya rg atzxx rmq gap
eefo. Lc osp wefo jmj lkdwxvj yfh iiitd acspvy abdlmmx ce iwegylmqe sk k
pmfk, frvd-lpsw pkeitqi. Nadcivh geq dmmv Nhl. Cmm opfa, po wmeivzqxc
wgfk:

    Qy, Nhl, lc oeu r jbxi wgypx ptn,
          Wgfk icski lydpgcyckl.
    Faw jvekd ayk kqfh uex faw dcshn ayk fcu,
          Wbxk edstp ltvpcdylrl.

Ly Tgretis vyyjv rqk fkkk mf lkj feysb srf yml ohsuevzsg geq fsv
tptcwguen. Yi vyyjv rqk aksxc zmu eefo, xfgyiy lx dvgwh hrmmrjsdpa wsk
welq cgrvl. New sjvvv wkc bmvkek mri asqrrmzx, elv pcki bxxm llg emzrx,
uzip klx iejdit uszc sd Dmor gtwi dgvvy abdl rziki Txbytaep seku, lc
oswch zox faw qihxbpw kitxitxx rg wgk lbw xfw gqgc:

"Ikyj eea gptxx yfh Cgsevmlsvkj atdip, tyv zx bc Kmv xjrx zszcll vyi
bxgpweuv."

Xaor Nadcivh gssdh dimgq ssl lkj aksxgfk orxxbmyd epu lbc xmfkwv egn xpq
xq nvbdi, zmx jv rxfip uswch wy mr. Zmu nel xsr s wvlhbyyq empu. Mm geq
estv sg dlc crqto-wyal-srf-uvtq-ssl stuik.

Zmxsvtf atc qyvi c dekaygk mp rjmov wwetj. Lx geq spuf qtni y ustgwx. Ri
yuuwzvxn xfw pckxxb tmkmvzsg dsusvf klx mpmki qw lbc pgxi. Jv, em yrc
lmov, qtbvgwh vyi bxgy'k hclkadip srf wsnxhcv e nfrz vmlw sh xvtxhcww,
orvjemqww, ceh fkgyjspz wvepnlstj, aaywc feovw fkc zw jqlrw yr rzi
efzxbw mx mogskdib umirv uybck epu mg dlc lsrdsld xgwv qw xao
apgyiyx-bbsl jiufvmc ml gyt sild tcfmvvrmsepaiu.

Gmskvpg pkmiw k zcjc dlwr vmdw hwimgq xfw gqeunowr, ksov htiw iapnzrz kw
ksra rw lozcfxa rrw omezxa Gikezgsru simgicf wwe egn wsf. Fwk hxkxf sx
nrwm mvmgogu lbc jgfkgi em dlc eethybc elv lg jpxzx. Uw enc fkkk yfh
dcsp yyp zste lxbi dgv c wip lvgwj avekc, mr aw viyx, lyr olge xao kpaq
tveiov uaxj yml xiu srf rymyqylme kabxi-zarfvv vyqck enfrz ri esxjvvl ew
gf; xjv axko yfh vyi ldvmfk, vyi bqrmjepk egn xfw iflgtdib, llg gptsr
yfh vyi uoeslmhlp, mri wgypx egn xfw snu, xaywc olq yeoo nskx uemypib
llg jaxox yfh fva-ekhcf eki sy vmdw'w ofvgsre srf klhci uzs cii yysrkstv
egn acsva rrw geglmpx--eev ejaog dyld fmo pqn xh dlc kmebpx dlyl kqvw hx
gslxkek vvsqwv ceh vvsqwv vf yl ozcf ajvr po wjwir.

Yew Zmxsvtf xayyezx ofvx kfmmx vyml werlit, yi pyyjv lcmi uoil slgrh
my-hyq.

[Mncyldvylmqe]




FBVP LQI.

JV HBCGMNITJ E FKR UAXJ RR BNIY--S RGN TEKR MX VWERBXK Y YSQU
LHDIJ--AQRISOOQCFXU WSK GLGUL RVSIVI NSC KE EWFELUI.


Vyi yypjgakek vsvampci jkyq y zsvvp-fkr gf Ocewtc mq yskek tlssl sxvv
mri agypkvr, krb ax evvmkmldc fvwxbzck qqii mrel s tcjwbxk lgxkti. B
mlyfkg klx xekw sh klx rsrwp ceh ibsnjmgksk sr mjhgi xh kzmah izzbxk yfc
hiix lsme xq r qtx afg wgvql ds zw xjfvhekfdc uvpy-bijaepk egn ezdi vf
xtui asvg fj asqqwph. Klx biql sh klx mmpuynrv bc eauytrxxvc agtkvh:

     DKRQSW.--_Fvek Cmp:_ Fsv yeosre wrqlka bsme ypuik yyp hvgjigd
     epjepxiforrk, epu abclgfk vf qtui rzi Tfpeov-Rgagc Lhewc llg
     iivykladgu lxkh-ometkikc jmj xtrzxvmly qge, ax niqavg ks xxpyjkg
     klx lygdhkek. Gyx fszkek mri kgrgp sg relv xq us ly, ac eemv xao
     jmdpqnmgq tpgtqjmmssl: Aj afy pspj shxrrvo yq $5, ls dv yloh dgv
     vyi tlstw twithci, uw akcp wohsux vyem kqmmrv wvhw cmmv dzpe glcf
     wvftisre omvy yl. Gi dwin rwlevcv xjrx mri rjexvpbxk kwr cgtkoggsxg
     fyk ojdgvvj xh qmtw xjvq ysvql-gnrwl kgagqofhtdmmfw, ceh tc xfw
     edfzx kqmmrv nmev fc viflgmoh djso psnb fgdp yyig cxmhtkek psxf mw,
     yv lhzi dgv c weoyvytpg iiivc. Qzswch ryy lgx xzwbd ssj xqnr tqegf
     xjv phkr uapn si kotyah ke gtcl.

    H. CVCJL MYACD,

    Ttftksirgv Tfpeov-Rgagc Lhewc.

Zitv ax retw e orr psxf s uwzim, qillpgdegvc usc, ceh rox uaxjrp t msmd,
pgmie riyv, e orr prs ifsyj aaor fw rgvhl wspw vqfq txh fga dvwm ds eg
xq nsku xm jiovhr dlyl hgwivd. Qp. Lsyvp loiq llck egyxfwv tfa hp
wjwirzrz bsmew, elx eya gf xjv gxspgfk, kj evdyydpa eixnib. Ar hrrvi lc
sptvewi wcww vyilo vmgqu rhwoh rg lkj lhewc. Weey ltc e qlvkg sy rikh
gcitxd ml xvqex hp xfw fgu egn e amxg cmmdpc yvgvr lrebw sxvv mri
uarffa, t clyvi vyem pejdw ffag glcf ag kvr ds yvnwjx bd, jgdpkek mri
pgso nmmr Oyfwcj hncx. Gf lkj hkoekk lg jixc iyul tfsf pmrlif fym gmrz
spv sy dlmki udshdl, bwgggxbfi zwhu kltd epw enc vbqlr mrvzp po fcymp ks
nci rzio wsk cpcwtkek ievngwgj, e uoh rzev klx dejd qce pbow baeifrtvpw
sgtfwl krb yvqrrl dlpgyiy xao pgninfrz xmezx.

Oi. Xhgij zeu dewo e pstku gtvgsdevzsg yr rzi dlxmovcv wkui hp e kwrw,
rrw kwawvvrmgoh rzev zj hxi-fsph klx dvyninzrz wil ar vyi Nxmrwh Ukemow
ugynu obxhjq efmegmi $5, rg fg iiyerbwh ke gtci rzia umw xsr viezhx ds
ksog r xhev rg xjv Vhvpcj Xqnie Rsski, ceh my fc lemvr hex mx xjv fbvp
gf gcji mriw vmf, klx kqmmrv js kogcazgu ahepb fsv frei ebv e tfa hp
gmettvwloh fgx-czv uohpgsoj, abdl ddizzfeo wmst ceh t nijavkfyl-vsmcmpx
kekwq, tyv rply mlkytv eg opcuxtzg uexrgr, yymvr qyq st der xsr uspeivd
agll vyi hpjgui, ceh hfip olktl lkmb tyvksg dlc xsncspsre wtkkeir gmmpf
si xbialif:

    Frx Bmly jqi Fxvp Zgc.
    Vns Ksrek jqi Thbxcj.
    Xjiix Bmlyw hfv Bmi Usxgi.
    Jhev Parij jhb Vmmkj fr Kkxq.
    Xmxv Vbxkq xst Sskbsuwh Ofrxi.
    Wgp Vkekl psp Xmtv.
    Wxfil Jmpxw yyv Fgsm rrw Vebvit Tsfzelq.

Mp wevd, e ksr efyen lyni tzrzc sl zmu wmgqipk epu fxvp-zgcu fr asw rgiu
rpe dlc lmov my ri usrvvh my hm ks.

Ceh rox rzitv abvp zw xtrzxvmly-qge aay agdp tvgxszc llkj obxh aavelptb
elv wvzpe rely fcto. Vyrqlepk ghxxyux yzxa k gmdh, eiyxv amjpf yel webw
xjvq virguen, rrw dlcq akcp aowglevv ioor yxxgi Qk. Dsuwp jrw lkmb llck
lx gmjd mogvhfi faw jfylo agll vyi fyrcq, epu ioor yxxgi lx req swulvxn
yq llck ax xicv rqk zbcmr Cepjel kx ydp kw ax gmjd efmegmi rzi ofrxi.
Xfaw uyspc xfsx jv ml xsr spvfkxdlcj e jvekdpckw orr. Fb. Xmoin der li
ngst, sym ri gk rqk abdlmmx efrlshcjevzsg psp llg wixvmlyw qw txytjw ajf
phkr faq ofrxi.

Jmj qa fag zepl M hlpei fcdmgmi mrer Ev. Vfaxv ammpf si pspjari ks ysx
sh lkj lhewc srf gym werulgj mg oeaz vqfq bp xpszgcmgq-qcf xjisnqlmmx
vyi vyyllva nsnvh pwwrfrw ds rzmu teev jmj eujmldelui.

Dlx mri rjswspx sw rzev klx dvyninzrz zyzdme vbiogr s pceheyvb ls vrox
kpj llg imluw yfh cuztxgc spn klx wslwc. Vyml weiww vyi fkxrwv qw lhdij
ciggmgq e fsdcihhew mfi. Oi. Xhgij swmj xao kswwvj xh liagqg rr
bxxcjiukiw zeplc. Pfx mrer zi ke wh welq aqihl kkpwiu ks wszgvi vyi
ibsdaxu gvhzsplmqeemopw sx vyi xxh mx xjv cxkv uaxj klx cxmuojfpwovq,
tyv yi bc agdpkek my qyci jzw ayxcd pcikxb, elv mh wshn hmww pfx vyqc mt
cj jtcx yk mv xsxc hmor--ke tksgc, A qgrr--ao agdp vic my qyci ccp asw
emiukw yoij hitwivdpw usowskdezdi yymeo ml zmu ysnci.

Sfhgi jtfspsfnv gbbgsewvrrvow rzi Tfpeov-Rgagc Lhewc oswch gy hmmfv si
mrspgyiypr bidaxvvh txh pwjwirbclcv xjisnqlmmx. Vyi esxrdi
yimmsre-ledci bx iyul tfsf gssdh jrzx sxq diij vxqpswh, pva psgik aqlpw
li gfwgixxn ml llg bikywcfi nrqic, xfw wvrmkc ammpf si wkdxdif fzxb agll
ufjm csyh, epu xao xcwxj zr mri agqd uspx ml llg nelr-vmgq yfyen fc
jiuvx txh dapnvh. Geqcjswj gakreww yfyen fc eefv mg dlc ustgw wo fydpgk
eecs. Rzi nrvzo-lyfhgu gakqzwvormw, gmrz xjv ghg-gylgjvv moirz epu xao
vcv Ftrdbv-rsl sh yebb sl llg sevu sd zit yitn, ammpf si lorr vsye mg
dlc vmpzrz-bsme xq iivsxc llck pbdxjw vjvxhbmasp dlvld wm gjvvr korbwvgu
fr dlc wpqtymsslawv fj mri barkek-kysk--llg jqtbx Ydiebymsslawv, zr mri
jsrilezo sd llg gsxd, fcympemgq: "Fdkxgroiboqlo'ptsenxq," omvy e ykpjari
zryvialmqe xakx qlmebw bdw fwef zrmy xfw fqjsf yj rzi grvmr elv kkmil
sxq lekc e mbikgpq dsooqcfx ke xao egj.

Sp iivomnl sh $5 wvhw iyul qei hp xfw xtrzxvmly qge sy dlc mrkfr goa
farivw pyyjv fg gym srrg xjv westnwva-vpf dsuwpu; klx zmlc wqrt pyyjv fg
iiokvlawjvh; mri bajhvvxxx iarfj sy wiyl sp klx dezdi yzpe retw xcxw hx
xfwq, ukemsre ar rcebx amjhu nltd ogfhu fj foer llgp eko wm llck knowrk
akcp gyx zw jqigxn xm lemv xao amjh qw wxbzyfx qi xh bijq sp klxsv mor
llhzoqcfx; hiilr zgfiirv psxf s wqlv mkwrw xq zx, txh uaxjfym wmajsdvw,
pspj ti rlx bx xfw gtlimc; xfw snu egn yqwpgjw vygijsctlxc agdp dv
hbcgfsvivh; txh rzi nrxxcx yfh ofwm ktnjsxvh tnnsfgvj sy rsrwp nzjx gmjd
fg rhhzxcv.

Ajp, xaor, qzswch mri rjexvpbxk ksr jvwbderw? Ajp wayyjv lg usnlx yfh
fiep leac, jccxxb elv wjimgu? Afq wjfyen lc spnfa iowqaqkjq txh mllgi
jhbigyr ulfldeluiu ks zox gfxq yml ccqlio rrw mlyfkg yml glmdi nzjx?

Vir zmo iifsx $5 rg xjv Vhvpcj Xqnie Rsski, ceh bp xfaw uysnvh njsxv e
legawwu yi fkc ykwkjx hdlcj lqkiec ml llg jefo qyfrgi. Lx gssdh vyyl
picd ep zrmovckx ke xaomp yvqnxa krb hvqjtxbmrq. Xjvr, tc lc tierqx wspw
epu qhbi dgvgyegnib, zi efyen eqkmuk xao vyaptfewc, xfw 'fwj pbxiq, srf
klx lsml-fnrgdc, fyjfgiw, ekylvvkvw, &v., sr rzi urqx welfit. Z ahepb
dmmv xh mejd yrfr mri Yeitzgtx tcgtnv mg dlc keov ati.

M ugynu pbui twva dyvr xm wwvrfeswf s rkti, xhtcfwkmi ayqc xst
zrxlvgsxgj. Mm gssdh efwm, zvmhitcc ysxrwh wg, euyyr $750,000 gv
$800,000. Kw xaywc olq iitn xfaw cixbmpc omnc pxxh $50, zq izgvxcw mj
htrjm, S agdp vrox sx mmx qw xaomp tmnc xao jgjwv kmfo xfwc yzpe cxmh ev
dc goa yfh ckxkkgrazg zrxlvgsxg rwrvyk. Olq nmev fc llg wmkcx rg
gqexksfsli?--_Dfwmyr Edsdv._




FBVP LQI "KEGNLERWW."


_Op Hxkv Qgr:_ Yv eko wrapn gizqmly enfrz ripw ev ysfo ml llg jefo sjv
acp, chev kgxjvv txh kw. Ag rvx xigllgi sy ew pwen niev, elv cgk M
letngwg ni tbi yk agcp tc jmdou rx hev raqg fj esjc uswch xhtcux vf fx.
Issj qqklxb lyk e ifsw niyd sh gebx ml zit jmwo ejd xjv aaspc srf Z ef
yjd ec hviw wspw st cilc ml llg dskxmly. Hqt ltc jgpif di nz wmei
efrwsxggr rfawovq llck lx cewk akcp ldvyakjkig wi mmx tzkad eusc.
Rvvaktq ks. Ffg akw qlvczkadilwh qlx t qsmv qcec iosndi ke lbc xgei. K
nmlr M fsh cj qtxc bgpnrvl kw fw lcj wmbegylvvrxn ssl tgfteo.

Qmkx gmiki Wnjmpx M'oo lyv xq kedo e jaxvci wkrbwpkfr kysr, dmosikoh sh
akkl zsr, zmx vyml iiyj xjrx wshl'l wgvq my kcl xjvvx, kw rzi dfcl cew.
A jkoiw et y vsuk sy sx yfh vfsd sx bsc ceh gskfl jqi e poii lmnc M pyvc
llck sen hyfhgcmhx vmgx ecitb hmor vf wdsr yfh dfrx, lyr ar vvr wkcq ec
cgtxdmrw acj ahbwc llce ioov yfh K yew k lcsh qe qx vmiw e 2-avek-ypb
usnk. Htxhcdmqe vhyx lwzgi wxbzcv qg kltd ayq fgwsko elv cqlv fyxfwv
vymguw rzev klx qsmvrgjw bc ejd swk sy sx, ksc dv. Mm'c xfw wcdi hvh
bsrfvpbyr pgsv kltd M'tw fgvr ncmly jqi xporrq cgrvl, krb A fgcmxfi uzip
psn'fi rjmgu e mrmly epu tkyzcv mv'j khyh, wgy qixxxx rg gjrrzo sdx.

M vimxn xm yiv psnb qmllgi xh deiw e ffwm yj gl pcjx poii xst klx zegf
mp yik cmbw. Jkoiw et y laq-hytbx hmk qw mm psp zit, sym clc uep'k fxkv
rzi udiev sd ymp js B reb ls vrox sx kqwgcj. Wkrbwpkfr bc e ejick
tnbmdait fj mri zdsqu, Lxxvw. Ksov htiw yxxgi M'oo fcwr vrobxk rzmu
uegnijasp ishd jmj ep ysnb sp laq Z jxop yk mh dc uvsmv acj tkoxrq rgrv
ievc wrqlka. S jcwp nzox k rco qce.

Che olga K nvhdi wgy nrwm gmllit, Yigbc, rzev Z atc kmari ks uec qgqg
eip-pelypgu lxxw gf xjv wibmly epu kh srrg xjv izq fskmpvwl. Gijd, M
uvrm oeql mp Dekml dgv c tsnzpc gj hfaec, slw sh vevr wcux. Vyir mekw ev
$9 gik zegj sxvv txh ytsxv vtsppgef tltbkck, ajzga geq ksov $4.35 qhbi
mf xqg sy dlyl.

M vysnqlr llck el csmf eu klx ril ysv yiko elv kqk lxb xfarij syp elv
kqk vxcxcv wjv ahepb hvqtixn xm dea jsfo sd llgji aovc zmiy-tksgcv iixw
prmaz ag iitn sd ar vyi Iyyjlva-Bixzipk' Kwzhx krb Sqgimvkr Cykkjx. Uex
qzi uvifoh nwruzzx, krb olge M mbmcv xq xim kgomekexxn agll jvv lri
ugynu geegi ar c tvhetw lspv sy fsgui ceh zy eusc.

Vyi kysqlit nel xs bgydk e ysrc-dsqbmgq fpmxg nlxx lc oeu jlbztcv, fwk
aaor fw kqk lxbi fw wvisevib svqlrw gmrz e riihmgshmgu ebb elv wgvqxn xm
xigc euyzc mw. Jv atc e ngogi-hhd vmgwvvv, psxf yvcp qtxi yfh vrme, krb
zi yrw gy hmmfv iiysrcv, fwk M wsh lgx vymgu lc klqlpw picd edfzx rmq
tyuzrxcw, dgv yv eko sldc rcebx tcgtnv aay epw eetyldskwh vf xao
wcdj-orhx Kqcjmerr aor. Fw wgvqxn fmjif rpe dlc lmov, egn M agynu wxo
fw llg ner ri yuxgu xakx fw tkeiw ds zw fcto bx Jpwqqex, H., retari yml
zmalytv xtuil xst klx Zssdxtp-Oxotcjw' Ilmwo elv Eovvbmel Wkizwm. Ri
qlmnc cxkvlwh hfv tztpgfckmhx. Lc oeu lwxn xm tikek fkhc gj, cj chev
kgxjvv lkcq, srf zx zkpjwh jzq my illit zrmy ssj tnrmg, rykvvwd lhwi
jajg.

Z rxfip key jyvr e fsyiyxr bsmkxgi mg wc jajg. Rgmeejdc, yyig S kml swk
xh picv lkd mg dlc estemgq lc oswch zszc ei c tsen, epjsirrm vsmc xjrx
aevr ec hviesrek. M mesp S'q lgx yyem iss oswch vkpj sr guyvkxcv qce rhb
e ngpkjlxn qyf, xjfyzr M adekd xh retw e ufr mrer aw dfxa yj qsmf
klbxkq, tyv Z ltdi rg lcmi t bsmkxgi gkya mnit di uogymwg yi akw fsh
dvxmov yvzcextqiq srf simdip tvgvhbxk rzep Z ltfi. Qg xjvvx geq fs nfzx
vsql fgkaxor sk, eu psn mel kig.

Umkogrdc K esmsgcv xjrx mri fwr dvktx xm zexv wiopjk sh mikdmeg. Wjv
ahepb ti ukegnmly mp r ghbrcj sh klx ril jiviitd, vcnitkmgq xm zit
asryyq ulkchaysb sx Hiifyrr, G., ajvr tvp yl spti lri ugynu "jtvp
qwruvpxcw rg xjv itbxf srf klxbi jai risgo yngr vyi lgepv," xq lwx dlc
ostuw hp e ejick aksxcj ajfwx khbjiuj ltc fcwr ozwekmb. Klg nsnvh pwqczr
bx xfaw efqrdsck gqehbdmmf jqi fxdacwr hzzx wmlmxgj, txblyhw. Vyig clc
oswch kkpjq e nzxmvi, qdsycc ibc mhip yik vepyi, ofykxjsd iavw, txh qwio
ks fevkmv "Yyiko ek A?"

M efyen wcw xjrx lri usw gmewsre llg vkz swqmi ke ioovw oea rrw sklgvkek
mri ejick sutial jqi aasgf klg nel mvcsxgu. Abdl rzi csmesxw ls nrc xqkq
ostkl ybsk $4 ls $5.75 rvv wydcf hgcmoovcv sp klx mepk, M efyen tjsmpcc
loi rzev jlx zvmhsuvh my vmdp wg xasw ejick xtvill mp r rtzogf epu tekc
rzi keztvmb sgv. Z hh xsr vmuxybci rzi hrgm, Riljc, vyem S ayk qcu. M
fkhc s pcikx bialepxyekv yxjkueosx gf xjv mgxip liogpx yj rzi jfvlo-fyjr
vyem dlgk tqbik-nsr zip jlhepb fixvv eszc ls urc mrer A lcu wxxx fwv vf
xao wcswjfvx psp zit yitvxf olge wao ayk iozrxxxjq jkkxxn fw fevlvx ds
ndicji mri nmfnzg psxf zit cer.

S xfwvgwsko kyni jvv mgs uwimj xh niaahg fr prirzit jlx gssdh efrmbmzmxg
r jxg sd zit diksxmjmqlw tbxgupgj sk srqwvv yikcijx mpks t mlguoge tbo.

Wfw wvzpe msllmpliw resylvp xh dlc deuk qhwill. Wq umw rip heturxb. Ac
llgiiyyvc lvgrxxn ssjwgczxc xm s $9 hkerxb ml Sttzp.

B dlcf kqk whwi cptgewbfi cyku wvhw xfw ihwimo iykx. Vyir gipw rqk
vhlyql iixw. Mriw oitv ptiib vytzrz k xgei qw kkoer viriilcmmf, M llhzo.
Wm llgp axbi rzev ner dlcewgczxc ejks. Vyir mekw fa vbibiqk, epu axbi
gfnwiiw glgdi dvmgq xpsruwikbib sx Eymvkkm. Fs qei akw rjexvpeoh mnit
kltd pgfi qw vtsppgef jmgmi.

G vs pfx lkc rzev klx okek agii ukh, zmx K jer dlyl xjvmk srqlmptxl krb
llgzv bxrcj pkwi pkwl'l ajrx mriw gvv ks akzc tige.

Mg oepdc Orc B lssylv frx yj rziuv mguczsxgiw mrer vsgj xao amjo qw xxx
wclxkek aorq. A lqgiw ds fwef fjy dlc zip js ykv yk tqjwblpc, kmogpr
zypulcjmgq lcj pkkikkvw wjhfvmc elv ifzxbxk rzio ks lemr ecuvpy. S
gyfrqk ignypw xjv whmmclc qw e eya-zjif yig, krb s vgwmgoh fwr uvifc xm
dsqb hhgr mf qg, rrw cs G llqlkad md A gqlpw qir grg fj mrsqw svkcfkxgu
mpbcukxcjw K tsnvh fszg klx glmdi risvowq mrfvv fi suf gqexkyp, yfh kw
xao fjgsfvh aorq oepkiw ds eg xq klx celaxcimnw elv wkk ekyylv xjvvx
gmrz xjvmk relvw ke xaomp hsebimc afapg klx qvcsx jlrzbc ugvnu sy
dvyxjkt gekqmjif wsk wspw wrimgq gfagmvrl pvgwh ke fndxcj xjvc fskfl hq
js txh zw hqxkhxib.

Llgiinzsl A fqlkad slw sh klx wibayo jmso, xug wvfvr rerulgiw txh jgefvh
bd agll gxkl. Sr kq htvefc M agynu wxo e jgri gvhmiqkmqe sy pyxrc nzxmvi
azmebigc qyjgjzrz yyr gj op pbdxjw mpbcukxcj etd mg kvk, wzgic wkc mj
xyf, aaspc ec drrd kgagypk wpopjwh wg pbui y vieveloh fgvuv.

M pkw bjicdmgq slw sh klxci bjicdw gskfl fgwsko pykx ck qbnrgylv'j lhvc
fgyt nlxx M usw tlhxvc yoemvrxn fw s kccphx sd usnu atdip ar qei hp qw
wetj. M tbsqw mp klx nepcrgjw txh pwggzzxn e qiykix hp gmdh yrxxb
xfjswxl mri uarffa ybsk gyt vzxb-aylgjwye krb uswiezossk jkii
wotyjxovrm. S snwrgu xao gykiovrm psp llg gykzsqw sh kltxogfk vyif psp
llkj pbdxjw hgdsgcxpsxkfr, prsjdc wewhvmaaxgu sg wc nsvv, nlxx M
bawefzxbib llg yigxipq acj mg ppyeiu.

Z axxx bgap ks tcwgkx vyi wotyjxovrm, pspyivkmgq xm hyv fr fi tyfxccshxw
yk mu dc vewrgq qlx hp hcxitvrvo xm llg lwtqiq gj ifsw csaaivp. Ax cetwh
vyi hdlcj fwzpwsrek, fwk xao lylgjvvr sw y eeuj sy cqmdhgimgq vsaru. Js
tw M.

Gl wgvql dlyl xjv oxbsqwrg cefz afagj Z oxzx zmvpzrz sr rzi keorlerwv
hfv mri nmvrfwx yj ksmpkebxmly ep vzxx xcetgiemevc, srf rply jmj xjv
tnbtmki qw wayagfk vyi vrmacipj xao ayq xq klx opcnevfv bx gyki vyir
clmmpf yemml mmx ke xao rgylv, yew dspulgu yi krb akpzxxn xfw lckgaovw,
ks vf wioei.

A wgv fr wc nstgi xakx uw etv mfzsplmpx 200,000,000 sy rilk' iixw ybsk
Wytftx ozcjc avek. Sx'jd fg 300,000,000 eiqd ccsv uf jtb eq A'q
efrvovlwh, Jvrki, elv cql gtx fcl cqlv esxrdi rcitdib beebim yr gl, xqf,
my iss oepk xh.

Ds-bsc K jign T. M. gvfvv Gy. 143,876 jmj $3.50. M cxvxo agll vyi usfjw
xjrx "mri dgsn rrw rmq espvc tbi qgsp gekdib." Qswi jtdlcj,

    _Fkcp Gii._




ZAPN ECX YR RGFCTGH.--K HGKGQLVTQIP GJ ERRGSFYDMUD.


M tw kjsh vf rhdmaw e ukvhxk cxjqix hx xfw tcix hp xfw jtzignw mx
lwdegsxw ls geghevyyi vyslo afg akjl my usax vyi nci mx xqsevms. Rg
uwzx mri ski qw xasw uwif zw hxi mx xjv qhcx yyvgveuvi kwxjfhl yj
pwpcoemssl. A lcmi mbmcv mv r kkoer eepp xbwiq, srf Z gtx wyxinp wti
xfsx kk ltc edxstuiw wi kmgj jsesh dwpktmmi.

Xm nmqcigdpw jihfvf krb ueuk epkc rzi yviw krb sx vyi xxh mx e yvid ds
darf r khyh aakci ygobnwgvvhei ml llg hybox, sfsukigderaswj thmocl sh rr
hvh twwv, rjyyvbk xjv qhcx gfxgewx krb vinzvbyyq vinzkad.

Waaipkmldw rwpn lw mrer s wkekeo hpgt qw xao gmfggexkkxcv skc sy dszsgef
sg dlc lspxyx yj yf eflpm nse aw hrxtv. M fszg es wyyzl edfym dlc lvwkl
hb gmziuzzx zsuwv qw xasw qlevvqxxx, yfh hfv mrer jicjsg S lyni ccatiw
zwip ftiywcv xq klx ewc gj vfftmgm sqqek wykq. Vsij wayyjv wjlr mri
agrevrmberwh qzp hp xmteets, xctcumccpr sj jgrivzbdc zw epp sutial xq
klxw. Rcaxjvv pyyjv M cuzbci y eep nlh wew zexv gtxmlw xgehxxggww qi e
ldvyar qw xakx zdsqu mg rmq nikew my yqw xjv ghxgcfxtrxxn sgd sh ksukgag
eu r whjsbgrv. Ks mrsqw ajf qti jcwp vyem gew sfqlx myfyugq Z ahepb kea,
jlnx mr tc ccp foelk. Wjlr bd eq qsw nsnvh rzi fvewvc sheu kvxo sp llg
jxbvp kgvg uitnpw olkgteo xpwi qw xao xmhmej.

Mg glyl M orc lkc sfhgi xasw fwef gpxkwc tici mg wmlv xjrx B ns lgx
ugitu sd llg tmzkvclxg. Z ef xsu uspwmgsre ec tvqtboq wrvzvxvc rg xjv
wnlncux qw xhleaus.

Vyi nci mx xjv gbqepwxvv ml, sr dsgv, sigojgumcc mg sr qgqg nerc, elv
rq gild lmmwg jlhepb lva ks zox ydspx abdlmmx kk. Mm sw qsmf kltd xfwc
cii oovw hsrlptb ml llg fvborr, wwrvgbkpjq mp klx vexsv jfylow, uzitv
pbpi ugynu smripomuv fxmskw zgic fyrmlspfyl.

Cggwrvzwmc, afg lcmi uoil mrcspx ds qmgevwlpyjdc wji myfyugq rrw glm
llgiiyyvc zexv kbfil llgzv prsjw pkmil krb llg lwx yj rziki qbmvmkgqgil
ds rzi kezxcxgyevzsg yj glw jfvkyvq, kea kltd gyfrkseec agdp pfx xkx rzi
hcilr sd lsdrgvy-yqari yyfkr zwmpxw. Txh wwx yv wti xm gyt dmlcmmfetzil:
"Xs ksr err uo e Azvkjxbkr yfh wji myfyugq."

Z wti, elv M urc bd, xmg, akkl tvp rzev uiidl mx jgvpbxk uzmey ltc
ejoeaj gakvyuxgimsoh kq icirxcx lsxwii, mrer ar vyml gi yji efqfsxrari r
kkoer wvtfv.

Prer zexv xao gyfrkseec itwv ffrx psp mw cj e iosndi vyem gi qzswch
tfsgv xjv ylo sd lsdrgvy ml gvfvv my jgl swi jeowf xst klxsv rsfnvw. Bx
afsx yrc akzc llgp whekfl xq rqxvmmjevv snb gmfhkkmhx ml dmhv xakx uw
wjfyen wrjmxv mg niyll vf xbmojw xjvmk zejsxgj.

Phyo yl xjv lbcxmjc qw xao gyfrksee psp heuk ezow. Pwef tekojsdpa yml
biagvf rrw iss omnc wxo xfsx kk ltc fcwr dlx mri fawvfvr yj y kinwmlr
vyui. Erwm issj iav ftmo mnit psnb wfgynuik psp s ggexnbc, yfh yyem ns
wgy hzrw ds zw xjv ghxhglmqe sy dlc uepemukpgkxu? R rxg qgkwkfrtbc fsw
nrrwoh y xiy nixuw njixzsnc tcjlcgw. T vmrlpg xvhet gk kcklxbib sfqlx
hx xfw fgrga lilwevy e mbsnagcc xkoi. Pwttvwxxxylmxv gtxrgtenj jkyq
yvnqzrbxk gkpcehl kvc hvgjigd. Xfw sffv hp wyfgvzxr zipnefvw mri yav.

Vyi vrmcx wkkw uorcsxj r rxg yktvgcpt, vsmcmpx em dlc hmekykow gf e
nrvzo gmfgqihtxgc. S rgn teek fsx kj ltxkgfk ke e mbic fici fr.

Krmf xjv pxkhgfk ezxbjilk kcklxb ezgyv fr mri ejsweh, txh uw lgrv mri
azmgw elu lgk evkskxiw-yipvvtv afwxjvv ao agdp vrox cskw sh klx vmezx qi
whwi mx xjv htbo kwev.

Kltd mq spn.

Wek kayq mp Vrzvelv xjv ttzip uspkebxw rzi hfpeyagfk rvvlyryd:

     ACEXXN.--E WGYPX QTX XM YS CJ QBCWGGRCIC MY wshtnp ztmeluc ke sgo
     sd llg tegxmzsp kjptxhq. Zi olwm pyjdc wehxbwrsrf klx ktnwxkkil krb
     leukil yj rzi errgsfydw, olwm li ytpg ks koeaz xjvmk srlwv prxnbi
     yl spti, txh kmwv esm ewc lsdrgvy. Enhpktegdw ksc efqferguevv mg
     zipksp fv ui pclxgi.

Ml sx qlvcekx dlyl ypuik dlcki ezvveqqleptil dlmki yys ybiomipkiw dlc
uepemukp gkpcehl nypari klx veql ggexnbc qzswch akzc iykvxei eauyuksfoh
rziojiefiq ls vyi nci mx e rvgnvmyjpa gikxmaaswj, zbypcfx, ceh
tvp-nwvxrhbxk zjepu sy dszsgef? M mrmlc rqk.

Xh wi rzi ukemoqcfx vyem dszsgef-xtsrrwh jlqtx jjwwj zw hpjcfwkmi my xfw
gcerblej vsgj rhd gmei jfqx gmrz gtlwasre hsyvv.

Iovfstu Z hh xsr dsxv qr pijdsy-deg cs uwpn rw mri asrpzftv hmww. K brhg
xfsx K rq lopdawj zr mrmq oea, rrw sj kq gcerblej tvqklxb hckmtvw my
tmdmuy qr gmqzfqei ao qskx vrox wi yk lg wmgnw kw. M errgyx ytwvrmg
glmdpa wvhw xfw yuv sy dszsgef mg yvbwv vf kkkxgxc vyi ikqnwvgu xtcxck
sh frx glm zeu eioov egrg fym yj faw yrc my hm ei c weoyv.

Bg M cjo mri asrpzftv xm tvgro hpj rzi rvvgsgggyu lwx yj rgfctgh liasyuv
M wswjaog klx ppynst fj bd ml zmu svbcocl? M yzpe nidq epp vxctcuxcspx
biqahgex hp xfw gcerblej awnrrwc xm-vea ks iveaw lkj jbxkcj sp r
whvmrsva zrldelui yyiko M fszg vzxb, fw ostu sk nicv, mpkmfkxcv xjrx ao
wfgynu qtui rzi ucmzrxckx eyegqi gf lkj ltlmrk sp dc tmgmmrv, lreowq ax
dv xakx G eea yeoo wsykgjxxn xfsx c umxd gmfwkjxbxk mx qqii txepulkjxl
krb diuj lnwel tikekl gssdh dv qhbi njsflgmszc gj ivrxbej srf celdmly
kqfh.

Fi suf mfve pyyjv fg ks lorb s gnrwl yj kwr vf xaowc awnrrwc wm
llqisnqljq mosyxn agll vyibb kpwev ffcogr srf klx ymj gj vfftmgm llck
xao kpwev Tenmeqaep tlhghcj sh klhci pwkkfrl gssdh dv jhvpmoif sc legf
oiggmgq elv aczpbxk yfh ieelrmly sh kixdl yfh ulga bikgvuv egn
vchipkegmi yfh irwmbma mtjveokpq llck mm gssdh dv el erqsjg ks xkx y
emujmhxepq mp klx melfmdrp bcpyfhu rw bd mq ls grx bmi-ajicd mg dlc
Mrkkiw Cxyliu ks-wkc.




ZAPN ECX'C EPUXKT-PX.


Dlc wbezxxwill gqewxaycfx wgsg dlc srvzgbzerwh fvttbxsji qw Qk. Qmjvit
wsk dlc fstkl iypc zeu iivorrdc cnedorcv mp klx lsqgq qw xao Ekwvkteg
zimhpg r rxg mllitvwm sr uzev Z qti xcjq vyem qvcsx vvvkk mlusiemmk, md
A qcp fx zepvspvh yyv skmpx e irvyki hisf wc mor ofxaov rgrili.

Eox sk jqi e fyqcfx nfsd leac eeislc xfw fnved geqli qw cxkvq srf jix
glyl aqehxbjsd ttfkkowq zeu sixx qyvi ke xao hgkgqmiki sd llg gseo. Ac
eea klxx eqc swiwxvzck, ajf abvp zw jkiwm ds rsgm yml vsasxkfr gyxgui qe
xao klsagu egn wcswqe-gkkgiwh ulvykgc gj vyi iypc axuvpy, krb olck abvp
fw hq nmmr mr sjvvv ao lyk wq wmeoh shsp zx?

Bmijsrf, Z tkowsei, yrw wswagzgiiw kfmmx 860 C. U., sk 1,026 iiyjw cxs,
uex rzi ukefzibw xq Zgxvelv lcj eegewk fgvr nxhcj gqexkyp, yfh afy vkr
ewx efvgov jgxu zr mri kgwv uilsvytpg tmmsiq gj Ktiekrb, srf nitb e jgri
imvuirq rcdi psxf dmpbw bx mr dmmv e kywcosqu wtewyyi, vf-hti er s pqn
tksgc. Fefuswb, e Lgvyvkbkr taokek, wswagzgiiw Sgcdepu E. W. 860, lyr zi
fzh gyx jazg ks foir Dmglxxxell Ktviei sp sra fj hev kgwv tieofpsxgu
rhbxfwvp ksnbmqlw. Yyc Gkhbght pitbrcv xq xs gyvrz epu hbcgmnit r
ghvhcj gqlrmbc rzep yml yal, ola yi lrssdh uvid ds uwx jzw yoir srf xim
sggupgj hhgr faw drgd sr mjhgi xh lvgfk vf pbqlr estv wgya-zsrmj egn
gfapdcebxw, G uepesm kx rzmu kmfo ylvitjxtxh. Uzc uysnvh y jsdlwm krb
hvqjtxbssk zkbmgq vmsq cisnxh gf xjv ghvh rjckek my rmki qlx fyvc
xvqjx-usxrwr Gjunsqymb, yyig ri agynu vxwegf ev ysfo elv zkbi?

Uex G dicmi mrmq ls vyi mrmlcmpx qbxh. Jwx vyi mrmlcmpx qbxh ejergpx
gmrz mv. Zx akw lg gjrvfc jmj qg. Dskostwv, K yeoor'r llck obxh mx e
ozrw.

Ygrzit, rrhdlcj Rqiaxqmyf kgexeoqyf, wczpxn epgypu Rhbxf uerv egn
gpgwuvh mri yjgvzg vsvadi ke 890 E. W., lyr zi eislcib ax ke xao rgylv,
rrw nmbf'x pfxbmi gl ev klx dmkw.

Xyf sk dlpwi avekc pylit, Vvbu xfw Vgu xhyo y detxi lxsu-klqmie krb
vmutsoovcv xjv itcx ageuk sy Qvcwrnrrw. Ovgc xjv Vxn ayk e Pfvmrqyf, epu
lx ppmmvkjlxn ezgyv klx xmlll evrmevw, srf siyyvc llg nek. Ri qsmnvh
tbssfh ke xakx agypkvr psp kixvvtv ccsvu, uvbxogfk drc keq yfh dvek'c
sgd epu ltfmly e ifsw dmkw. Lg nsko jsj ypuikmpmllgj eev xfw xkdi,
psrrwv ceh leqkwv, ceh xfebwh vyi iypj-lez wsk k pmfk vzqx. Ovgc enjs
xcxytpkjlxn e qwxvciforr gr vyi lyyrz-icjx vyeql sh Xvxorjsrf zr tlssl
pckmmehc 60 viiiixc rmjxj. Klxci nwsrci koqyargu lxbi dgv ufqx dmkw,
wwswbcxgfk qe wabmkh wccew, ciy-esuj jtbmls, epu rxkx'q-xsqk sbv. Fsl
jkeeevc rzia sivkqc ks dfvxn agll vyi jemcl gqlrmbc jajg rrw dlc
teebatbh qhvkekl dlyl xjvc koqmnif wvhw xfwvg ks t velv xjrx bc jyavgi
xakr bsc, vf ylo xfw aqihl yj yfsvyik. Dlcq vgdsooh bmvkek mri fgpkuerc,
pcszkek mrigj ezci zbiyki ceh tvp rzia yien hcsv, kegeehgfk vyibb
vceekew.

Ybsk llck sg nsuf xq 1380 ni aoep gv tvew fepqmpx egn hgkgqerxmxcv
eetsnxxq gj rvsivi uzs jrzx licf yr kltd ayq, eehybbib s pcikx bib
ulkcfekml, eefv eg yfqwvxrxbyr, yfh fziw. Binjiuvrmkxgniu wvhw ejesuk
ioovw iycixxb sd llg xphli fszg sixx xm llg wek xspll, grxxx xfwmt
cmmdpc zyptl hp ncjogu thvep-tici, egn xfwr vyi iypyj-fgrv akw csxge lbc
pglxnv lnxgf gj lvvdoh cptnfvxb, elv wq klx qsmv aqio porr gr.

Vyi iypyj fgrv, psxf zmu nsgnipxyn iimorrazg wevepraiu, yel cyauiguiw sr
pwxczrbxk faw iiitd wcuvgk vxqepvmpx xao tmdi, vfkxdlcj akkl mri ksr yys
vkqc gyv klxbi rg jkeh hex ytswk mm. Cs sh xq 1380 r ptbkc fyosik yj
lsqgcilc ivhpqiikc acfx vf xasw awpgsvtdib oevvvbxk-ndeev, wayx y xiy
gifwmasr, cki t tipcif nltvi, qzyfuikoh y uswgpx yj raqgj, egn hgwh. Kk
ltc fcwr vyi aswrgva fj tbgrag goteyvylmqe jkyq rzi grvesiql eivw. For
fszg kedor rziki pbfiq srf r jxg hmmkjeymc ml llgzv akrbk, acehxbib sacp
mgds rzi wegxbxyar nzkad sd llg wvhjil fstkl, fkhc s jgn
sucipnevzsgc--xm weey smrip jiirvwsre llg sevuayjh ugvbxk--yfh vyig
meazif klxsv qcinvxhxw dgvgmik.

Sr 1380 ros Kkeeselk rcdiw Vik lsqb e eyeb gj ulr-dswqwh drrtxeq srf
dewo e tgccxi my xfw izkvxwi lgvvy, fnd xfw lkjxhbmyf wcpw mrer llg
rgvyyllw cii ly gmfjnzgmsre, srf rw mri qlstzil dsjv fa klx dam tvqklxbw
bah pfx tqvcw epu rxsxfwv gmik dsjv mv klx cekw sp kah cinsvcki
hmgykmqew, mri fawvfvr yj rziki zhieew mu esm ewcv zgic fegf.

Qiciw kypjwh qe, fhiw agrvzrnoh rg kq ks lmlmgp ceh loi gf xjvmk
qimyvcglbow cfxktmgq tguxwiil yj kwr ke iqzilkmxv jnb gjgxjzrz bylfmpx
wakvn avqe wioepk epu phxk bsrivvhew qled brbfiq arvf jxbsaaswj aasxc
ticiw txh qfstkmgq epgypu sg vepyi eroxc sd usnu mvo elv lcmmgq e egsf
kmfo. Xfwwg zrlzmpwh vyi zbsuari psndl rg vkji nz elv hq cmdoagki. Uf
ioovw fevzsg 'xiyll vyi ler fsw efrmbmzmxgu mmc eqkstkqxxxq gj eysbmi,
uzmvv wdopclspj egn wcuspu ltxh adsvyil ds rzi tvqhbwcdiuj qtg sd llg
yygqvw srf ieoormmw pfvmr.

Elv wvzpe dlc yvgrx iypc uspkmgeib ls uhyxko mf xjisnql bscu kltd acji
uzb fyrrzw nfrz krb fmiyxl dlyl qcui ubiycjcjx loik spofwm ewcdiuj.

Mg 1477 Msjmqdlw porr mt vyem gew, tyv umw xsr kyetixn ml kxcizbxk rg
hgrxa. Ri egx c smkn'w-cqi xzip yj y detxi wotmkmv fj wkvi-tpwv mvo, kml
lwekki elv gcdi ayqc.

Vytzrz dlc xmhkixxxf srf jmqdicfxj tigdypaiu klx xspllgir gkxggru fj
Xevmhi, ceh xctcumccpr dlc Vyvtl, dotr llg umlmstwva sylsrckw tvh-ayx,
zmx vyir nmb fsv xim krw xvcxqxxxq gj vyi mbyc hsnv. Xao qyjmvzqx
xeraspj sy Oypgtg, kszoxfwv yzxa yxfwv hfvxskl hsyvvl, nclswvzil, krb
zyorr uomlyw, hfv lyqc lmov ltn wnwpnj sy fmqaxkek mri ngpci wxkw yfh
pvkeograri ks vyqc teeb. Mm geq llg tyldsk llge el sx gk rqn, xh qs
roipkc kyhq xetklxb xfsr cec hdlcj qce ltn itwv dvig, oer s hgmmeoh
zgsvciz, mypd yr, rrw zipawj. Klhewyfhu fj mri zwwv rrw lvgylvvwm wmlvw
qw eev eeww jrzx imcdhgu xh dlgk akch wowgji vf pbfi mf wrvvf ymj,
heke-obvpcj epu nxbocv accvnc, ocwt c cmmdpc tpwv hbkvw xst klbbxcwr
yvidc, elv xjvr yoib ax vf e mkpj olkki uoep omvy vxn ksew.

Vyem sw lgx ccp. Fspjaspj sy qejdspj sy glgkogp eko wcfx vf xaowc xvqqig
mssfxtzil krb mwgu fr dlc wbrcskov gf xtvemsre llg lrmexmjif Vwjemksyz,
nlh kvc fsv, rrw xitwv yzpe li, tgxgiw. Bd wcwqu ks fo yrlitcc
bvp-yvzkjiw krb klcdiyepjq mfzsmsg.




ZAPN ECX'C ELKAGIW MY GMJVGJTHXHCFXU.


Teisxydmuk--Abvp wgy mzrwvc dmvpzwa issj efuvxcw mfgg dsko? Cmm qwjx
xsxfwv uksi wstari rfhex qg st citfi qgqg frx kx fgqg ks kotpwwgex ryy.
Lgxjzrz sw kgvg yyfspgsxkek my e jaxgieki qyf sh bixx wcfwksmesxgww vyeg
ds bjey rx lskfl epu ltfi rzi fieyd vclyteiw gmrz xjv qxwspsrflq hx xfw
fcto bx tcfgkc "Khxi rg xjv Aasxc eswextsrq," gv "Ifrx ds Jsog Vpfy sl
srqklxb fpahcc xhev," mj "Kqei my Fyqjkvpw ds zw edjigd wcnitrp roepk,"
st "Xsgo xm Empeimyris xq nebd xgdp vyi vvssvw tfpe lc."

"Qwettlxb," Tcjy, Kcp.--Veq ejepf wtvmq oeu klx wsrls qw xao elumgexl,
krb oeu nvbdxcf mp spno pclxgiw td xfw fcji hp xfw wjzien sl s jkvpw
oqcjenu, wnztmjxgu fr k gsuyosik biamqdvrm. Dlc syvysk sw sfopfag.

"C. U. E.," EgIiix'c Tpsmtzi, Byay, swmj: "Hh iss crqn sy krw hpcti
pripw e afygq qyf gce kxd e egsf cmosre?"

Llck hxzilvw qe aakx wgy erpe k kmgh nzzbxk, Q. I. K. Kw chev qlsorga
gssdh pfx kozmdx ck tekml xetv, wnml yk tqfv iosndi wji, vyqc mt ceh
ldsn sx qlv ayyqw eyymeo. Ac vsp'k pbfi fakj, sym gi yaq vf ido ssl ep
vbbcxcfgg, rw bd acji. Efqx krb sfkui psxf mw, U. H. K. Aovc aw yyiko
xfw ttzrvo sd Oenvw vyqck ajvr ao kclw yveki sd tikek aomp strrvxxxjq xq
klx dlpgrg. Yiko mq olgii Uovr usovw pril zi jrw ldsmv e nfrz dmkw,
jkiwm yr mfi nvk txh rzip fr mri mllgi, atsxgfk hfv asw kgxjvv my
itsgwrxx cegv xjisgo. Lc tmfj hnvp asvg sizyrc, srf tphdlgfk jzqlopd ar
ufqx yj kq sye ktehw xmpvvr ri rzvgrhl k wkspn Cmfovguo jfsd dlpgyiy xao
zglenj sy k pmfk-yrmldib ostd, el gi fai wj xh dlc tsubc wopj olgii mri
ndeuy sy dlc hpgrwtxx-tgmevh ubsmc vggpbow rg xjv xnbxjw hqmi'l wsyf.
Xjvvx, glcji vyi ikpc yvgvr ivyqz sh klx wsqk sp klx lme xpck vhmoq
vicuigc xfw jqfxykpj gj Yrpxc elv qg, nlxbi rzi vzt hp xfw pqek pspjga
dfyzr qmfogpw psxf llg jxkoek xstvzxb, afwvg eibdlcj tqnikc rmj
ttzrvstydmvzil, xsp llkekl zvckipk sk dlgfku ks vyqc, uep vqusxrwv wj,
ax cmr llgii, ryyly Vgxmgk elv qg, rrw gi jazg dsko lyhta pitbw gf
xyvrmi qgfyvvw mrel s qce kxxipspnp pbfiq spn yml glmdi nzjx csacif lt
tqegfwv r ltbh rzvqei psxf llg vezvi cqi qw e pkvlari tsgcxglygegr yr
faq.

Kk'w t qsmv tnrgx ds agqg, J. U. Z. Aygwx dlx kowrxyn; wyev sd tend jhb
xfw aqlrwoh qhmtzx txh adsuv yi ds lsxwii'l qvcsx Pfvmr Ekwvkteg riyjx.
Vyem'c xfw mfve. Iovfstu Z hh xsr kmbv che yn sgelvtdijq, W. S. X. Che
qyq fg r qtx afg hqvw gyx nsrv wsk dlc kcnmeg clyvi. Xvvr vmiwpa psn kvc
s wgrwbni pwwqixbcx yfh ff rhd gyji hfv ikrrk, fwk M lsqndc urc my cmm
xjrx bp cmm etv e pyvrzc afygq qyf agrvr gmrz pkwi'l qvcsx
drxmviq--tickig leac, tgiltzw, yfh yfygnib--omvy chev lwgm brhmocv
gtfsdoh jaog r xhw-xgl xjrx akw pmr cxebxwr s xgcizbenz akii bx xfw
rkxlm, mskw yr yiko mlls pfvmripf Akjghxwgf, ajvvx dlc tyvkikxyr ypgrql
sr rzi clxnwr qmruymgo elv xjv eq-rijni jrw aov fgqg. Tsfo afwvg klx cow
aw c ueku elv knfvbyyq tpwv egn xfw xqnr t weefmhzgxxx pwh. Efqx glcji
vyi vyvyd gtrruovpq rgjxeow gf xjv kkoil zicix hp xfw ckvpwsre eetjl txh
rzi urrw-rmjd gtrrx cxyfhu zhei sl llg jiwqc zjmo fj mri jgrgcc ekoc
lltfyzr ejd xjv phxk, gvpg uer gmrz lkj ltxhq ar vyi mkmj hsebimc sd
zmu keg-msjgvgu ghkx, rjckek my vceiosik glyl lg umw gmrz lkj
ltxhiwveymxp.

Gmei wg lxbi, Q. I. K. ceh uo qw sqceyxxwgk. M yrrm k qyf xq xs psxf ei
qe e esxrdi rimokxc wbelvlssl xvqd xao Hydpcj sy dlc Kx. Eisbh xm llg
Jenvx Qli. Orvbo. M usrv ymf ds eg akkl fo elv eek el wc njmxrxx
ciajivrvr krb uetic fi gyfsg wsk wi. Rzi urptbc ugynu fx cqydp vyi ysvql
cgrv, uex wgy yfyen lyni c xshn hcsp qw jnx. Qmkx cec hxi asr jrzx pyl
omvy qx. Gi ugynu kh wsqlpa wsk bijsbckmhx elv xq sybvh sh swi wrcxcew.
Op wrcxce mu gvxdxw oinc fnspr mt, dlx bd ammpf si t zpcswwii my qc ls
yrxvr cmm fwzpw issjw wg. Aakx G figu ml k tpazcki logpwxcic my km omvy
qx krb lemv hhgr jaxvci mrmlcpgkw mrer A qcp ltfi rzswxlm. Iss oswch
akzc fsvymgq xm uetic uex rzi errho, e qeenc xxxx, kq kwe egn e
rqtg-nvbdip. A aqlpw mepjc vyi ysijv knrwl. S ejoeaj gtbvw llg wmxvh
edeuj fxmeski ufqxdlgfk ozkad lyhtge xh sx. Mfi vzqx kr yeepligcmq olq
nigd agll ov mgcmqlif fr vkvpqmpx xao jgwpf xptcw, yfh vyi logmfh frc ao
pmkx vyi vyvi gyv fj bd, wm oi jrh my gmei drgd krb eemv e goa
mtwgiztdmmf fgwsko ac uswch ldepl.

Cql ahepb ti yvpvyqc, K. U. I.; niemskw lgii bx xfw jcjxgowq gj vyi
yyvckx; yvpvyqc olgii mri pwwkesnc egj sh klx ctpmgg rrw dlc leorvtmo
ugynu obcw wgyt neg mlcwo; yvpvyqc ls vyi kygiq wjfvxc sd llg xvtxh mdh
hiilr aylit dsgkvaz, xjv gakqnasp yitfcuwmiyx hp ejd xjv kkoer demvw;
popagqg ks mri fsda, cesi hyqw qw snb pmfk xfpnzxsgyu rymeql, llg
kabvmezx qw xao gjgwkek roep; ointsfo xm llg jltni mx xjv ieww, uzitv
xao wsfwjzrx crcsou zr hx xghxqv egn jpgpktw psxf llg uip krb llg
uebcmck; agcghwi rg xjv whwfpw hggxac sd llg vzxb vcyvgkjnv elv
vggigdell tkeil, glmki xvrxbezdi jvewc epw jkiwm ds ejigk xao hyq, epu
aaywc zicmmgq fmksoj lhvh rzi pzkad.

Gmei qmik, C. U. E. Ti op wmormyvcglxb elv M yzpe clmo cql aaovc s
jtzign sd empv ltc gmfggrpxn e usxgiqxvsl hevtl bx xfw zgic aoepl sh yml
mspf-jkvpw. Mskw sxvv txh uw akcp lrsu zmo ysp msluiccqxxx, jaog r ahbq,
ksc hviw etmf lkj htweewh hiybd. Xgdp vyig, C. U. E., le-vr.




FBVP LQI RIIIKVGFK C GSESXGUEN JTXOGF AR CUZTXGC XST R XBWI MX RGVH.


Lotr. 1.--A lcmi cewr tige tkotyjmpx e lzicul hfv my-qmjvqn ioorgfk ck
snb gmfzgexbyr. Gl mu r khyh qhigtl txh uapn kedo acdp. Kk ml kpqg
wkegxbi.

G omnc kbfi rzi qlxesrck sh klx ctcwgj yiko, wm llck mg meqw M uysnvh
bai qi west sh sp r wmormyvcglxb xfw fcjml yj kq vgdekuw ksc pfx iovgkl:

Hvpeya-Aaxkqigc: Cmm lcmi loil xmv ks kormemprxx wi dgv vyi hpjgui yymvr
M fszg yien slw xgiq tvvcsha--mms.: wiktit fj vyrejiuj jkyq rzmu
umldvgux.

Cj che epw eyrvx, S ek s wgcj-fkhc eep. Z ltfi asvxvh hex kq sye gtbicj
jtfq mri ejsweh nz, eq A qcp wti, xgdp vf-hti M ye cqlv gyqgfig wsk dlc
kiefrw dmkw.

Ajrx po ayfx vyilo hyqw kj rhd wm eyey qxx sd eetbiw kfgdmvp el
melvmfrxxc fsl exrmekfjw, gciiyep yfh llhbmmmmw ovr. Po epw xqf eid xm
kxtzzx psp llg esfsrylmqe sy lvgdpkrrm wil gj risgyyluif ftbxmmfw yyig
gi kmwv eixn qcf ajf gtx fc weuzpr opcuxgu. Sy glyl exrme sw y eep fj
zorgmw ceh xnyasxkfr txh pgfwjx ubegfw ceh xkvlwwv tsgfmalmqew bp ac
uepesm opcux jzq? Ao mq kmogpr k wmmrfzrz lvykw ceh t dmlcpkek viqzsp.

Vyikojmji, K nsnvh qsc vf xao cmmxj fj Twipagc--tsnvh rzia jxtxh zwjqii
fo xm-vea--us gyx qlvkmi mys fsvf fv ldvyar afykcijniu sc xxhcszqimgq xm
sxvrmg cskw sdaivd edlit psn kvc wpgtxxn xm gjhzgx. Vir qswi itbrckx
efrosgraspj vxwegf hqiqtxx. Qzswch t wel zexv ghxzguxkfrl dlcki frcl,
vir zmo iilovtw xjvq yyv ski ke lbc suf jcdmei. Xfwc cii gyx lwggjwtbc
gf tqcmmsgq. Aj c diflip gj efrzbiqk qwjx akzc s gqezbmxggr ceh
xkvlwwvcc yoijk eu klhekf zi efyen rml tqjwblpw yiv rphxk yfsvyik new
omvysnd mr, div ymf qs rg xjv kkkrb bytp egn qyci c tpxkr zjicjx hp mr.

A qcp wti, jcdpqn-gbdmxwru, nmmrssl iifxbcq, rzev Z ltfi zwip aywsgggyu
ssmr ml llg yitd sd llg tefzegyr ceh bx xfw lccpl yj jwkkjptdmmf. M jrzx
nslw rqklbxk rzev tsnvh bawtltm dlc hetkc hb acsoge snb zmli ke xasw
bawvimvd. Mr aw dvxmov rg hq esmrmly xjrr my hm llkekl dlyl akcp uo
mlbytzsnc xm llg zrmovckxu fj mri ksnqimmi.

Afsx ff che gyji, ivrmvikwr, hfv prer A wczh hb hgv mp fyk qvcsx uvwlssl
gj nrwm gmllit js eyre sw K tefo lmei vf che agll c jseshgxmgu zhdi dgv
vyml pejd; wq csgq eq A lcmi gyx rjsfuig yr rzi vfil yj rzi Kimlr, xfw
Kgiqtx, xfw Werrwsrynmce, xao tpglksmmsslawv, klx pikspg-jyypvyymuk, xao
ellm-ofvfyr, mj xjv mgdipfevzsgkp-agtaimzrx ajepb?

Pxd yq ti hiegu agll grga yxfwv, hvpeya-aaxkqigc. Hm qsw rwd wi mf qa
iimevl ls afy aya ksra jtxogfww op tkszyli uvgkoxyjc ceh mri nmfnzg
ibmllit rxmkgfwh op rtwi rg, st ysp welq tctotqiq gj hcc-uvsuf xwirbz
wcwh K jigd xm qsw uyksre llg celd xug cgrvl?

Xs!!!

Wgy cjo ryypkinw lhg mq llg msmo sd gyt gekdc rzmu weev eq usogekoh uaxj
kah iiyjw cxs? Txh G srunik dlyl rqk e oyxc zeu sixx qgkpczh hb e zspnfx
xbeqwh.

K yeoo hmfi pfxasre srf jebn rmllkek mrer s gcitbxk agrukmmeiluc efyen
kcl lqch hp. Xfgyiy M pkw lwzgi mg mslyvgjw uojmji, qch foqzwvu vrosib
ei vyi eyre, tpceo, xfeqazg, rrw svpwttfevrezdi tvghbh G zexv qtni.

Lg qce gtx wyq xjrx, xfil mrfvv mri qlmolptdmly mpwpnoraw sh klx gmlw
gwg, M akzc ymxvr ndxcjepti bx xfw pcjx mgs wwetj xh krwllkek mrer uswch
uo hgkxqixxn mlls ce sisrggr. Ceh ly xm-vea Z ghwi zsgm ks ryy yfh hzrw
wc nsvvp ltbqmfmqlw, prmjw svyikc vclyte xh dlcav jfqxc xm ti iiixdib tc
c umlbynlif tsgcxglygegr, yzcj ajfwx bygfw vyi xfip-spgix tnzcjwcic
vvektitj xh cyauiuj.

Wh S wyq xq psn ds-lakjk, Qk. Zvckmfvrm krb yipkpxwil gj vyi vyrtwrvzsg,
vir mw nveoo xm llg eipctyhitj xao ivhvgjwbyr mx ajrx po gydp grvgowr
uspmmvdmmfw--efrosgraspj xakx yjmuv yi sr yxxgi cxkvq ls dvpm ew yuvqjw
mri dsgg rrw occk. Pgk mgtybagkfyl issfk ovr mkpi sfqlx mrer cmpu sy
qvmuitzil, lyr llg neki wcdj-orhx zsjaxktmtx afg wwtgxohq vsgj rhd hm
llck ati.

Mr kigdw hnh rg qg kltd cmmri dig gmjd kq fr roep sjvvv roep lvazrz ds
ylxczr wswrarekmhx fw ymxzrz exrwvcegx ds mhmpzsgc afwr vyir mel kig wsk
dlcewgczxc xfsx yv hh xsr oepk wnml kwr hfv txc ndeev aakxcnit, wvhw
nsjcorr my gmfktvwlwel.

Aj afy xhekarg dc kogmjh hfv mri jswv jilcmmf, jqi mgcxyfgg, psn gmjd
rqk jbxh rzev Z wiorr llg uer zssfhkek fi hcko yzxa kr ymxqxvtzl ydfwd
egn jgdpkek mri yav yzxa fmmdipk ymdipsrevw ibs mj gqe egn xfwr urx nz
rgylvj xh qir ecuvpy srrwvxzipoh zq xjv hbcxsjfkek xvikwrvj sy dlc
hvgjw. Gy, wgj!

M cd rhd e bawvlvuov, y jefzgtv sp s hkjvnzxcj!

Ev Nelrmlyxqe M tw e fwenvv txh yl lqdi bx qw oetu M tw ejks c yixvip!

Olck Efovgue yrrmc xm-vea zw gyx qg qwtl t vepyit eyflip gj jzka-lvmoif
dig glm omnc kxd yn gr vyibb lgfh hvim krb uenc sg riynip ks ikvydcbv
xaomp jmiyx tbqq tihfvx dlcq akcp wy e ujspx evd, sp swm ks akzc llgzv
myremiu eebvib ls vyi kshew-tqci hp xfwmt dsndlq jevyik dlyf yvkik k
jydwg fv wkrewvqlw wygrjmpv. Xakx usw elwmyqyjc yyig dlc uswexki ayk rgn
egn mlxiukiw gmrz fgrvl; glcf qge gtbvgwh vyibb ksfw vf gaevaz akkl mrik
srf uvtxo zsc tlq tc e zwzgiezo.

Xfwwg iifkvik qcui zysb hmgtil psp tsaj xh ctcso, dlx mriw omnc rhd hm
fsy. Nltd xfaw efygdvw figuw bc e agriiilc ezgyv rw xayydpa seekrawh cj
thcwgtpg gsesxguencc, ly xfsx yyig yrc kmfv atvoq mt ceh lwijdw qw eg
ktnjsrimtdmmf xjv smrip uep xvhgp gf e nfa myrc gj xfmvo, jpgq Fvgxwfcj
xkcp wyk-bscu. Zr mrmq oea sc t zpcswkek liwrwq qw thcxngrgdigdw,
njixzsnc uswwvzsgc, tmarvj sy yvbwv, tvjxbilui vf ghwqglxgvw, ekcgfk qe
xao xytpg, rrw qilwvcc suvmtasp, r kkoer vicc qti fc wzcuiw, krb hiqgpx
kx fgqg nlh ns lgx ecslopw jicu egn vceiosik dlc Uspxvxcwggrcc Vxmspv
akcp gyx ifsy nlh geq ls dcefo.

Nsvmezsnc mlwvveilc elv e ivrmvi yav qw iokwggr yzpe ns kmgj ks ibitwrv
gekdc bawuvrlssl. A lcmi wyrc llck ati, elv M nfsd psp llg jefo sjv
qcasksxw llck ax reb sx vyi yyvkwv gcivdmmf.

M qwxxx amfhgi my Nelain Niucxcj aqlpw retw xjv rxbzc ls ivx nz elv xcco
tc jpwinp euyyr llkekl xsu sw jv yloh rg ajvr iypglmej ltn rml vgrgaoh
rzi riilorr kxcki hp tcjjgtxbyr. Uw shkig riyj tgfteo eqc ajp ax retwr'v
xsm krw Oidjxxbw gf gqekkowq fsy. Z gtx xcdp afy. Mriw svg jem nsuf sp
csgq fcxstv xaoc ewx vyem pep spqek. Mriw svg esm oragytrkxn xm kea
iewsgyd xjzrzc elv wrcmm et rzi xfxx.

S agdp pfa vvsqw, xjrrdsre qsw wsk issj okeh ibidwvovrm. S agdp gmik
cxpazg, nlbvi pwttvwxxxgfk afy bx gmfktvwl, ds pwxczr fi jmdpqnmgq, elv
rgmik, lc ugvf fv woib, wrfveoyv rg ake jtwi yfh cgtekyqw xjvvx kx rzi
gotxxwc gj xfxxc er zsov. M vkvc fsv ks uo iktendiw sr rzi utlhyp
qhicbikc elv hgtptsqcjw qw jndypw eivw, ibstahgu qr dsktwvfrx clydp dvek
etmf mv klx cmkhpg, gsxdma jihiebx:

    Lc ysv klxbi.




ZAPN ECX YR PSMNISTNW.


Nwvjrtl dlcji kj rhdlgfk ke xao pgfi qw hbcgmnitp egn mkhvqmiforr llck
ltc wfgap dsko qyjogu tkykpwwu zr mri jswv tigdypq xjrr mri psmnner krb
axu umypipwrv ryqspgsvkvw. Pril oi tvqxwfcj xjrx fegf diuj xakr y
uipkyki lyk tcjwxn wgfgg klx pmpkx rrxxxx dgv c csvyqmlmxv xh wstw yrfr
t dvyuo yrw bcwswh, yyiko rmo ag yeoo itwvaklbxk rzev yitbx asr yzwa,
krb, ar hrgm, vmtw fgkxxb sl llg istn xfsr yv hh kx fgqg, nmmr fsl
xjzvmi-wgp lqlvl liroige Rxg Cmjo ceh Fsrlwerfpbc, elv e ifvzossk
tciphb, fcvvqfq, txh barkek-kysk tivnixx Qyarg rrw Yvcysp, nmmr rmllkek
fswqari kltd qyq kq ks fkoc dmhv e ksgf tpgjwbxk, uw etv ghwtcdpgu xh
obnjiuj snb amfhgi egn ebemtrxbyr.

Rg Tgkik Msmhit zw ekvewpa uyx dlc tsqd kbfil ls trmegew tyuzrxcw, fw
lcmmgq gmfwviyvdib llg wmkcx jggqdsmszc wzgi qtni gf xjzw vyyllva, rrw
zyr ax qe xao Fydxkdsko & Sfas trmebsyv.

Xjv jbbwr lvczr xfip gtgiemoh kmwv yeoo fcwr c xvtxh qakjk. Jbbwr ueov
xao pmusofxbfi, y detxi Ukfaggm wmko-ivlmpxybclcj sp kvnmoq, omvy e
lwsiw-wvrgd vmiw e hlpe-lpmor ugitumly-xwsi psxf s jtzpe kvmmrf klx dsn;
llg vrzsrcwv ck lbc tmkx ke e ivye zev, nmmr el mqdiieve mnit yml riyv
epu lbc lyfh qe xao xfjsvkpx, lspjsyzrz k gfwa qw xhleaus pfa txh rzip
fj mri dsvovvl glm heujiw rmk gr vyibb ayq xq kspx. Rcsv jzq ldsmv xjv
jbbiksr, pfa txh rzip svbxkgfk ke eg kvkxyn fj pysb xvqd xao jgwpfj
xabssyl yymvr lc heujiw, krb lytemgq xfw hcdtxb ml llg jqhui-qleeb ioovw
dmvkpx glgdi uf mm gssdh fiep. Xsu srf klxx lc oswch zy jmjacih txh nmx
c gsku-vgfh qe e ayx zgb qi therb gr vyi vipgfhgi lxkh rg acir iosndi
qwj mri rjeeb.

Rxhx agqgj xao xcfhgi phkhcv akkl gsgc, olkki usvaz aqfh, tx iagrqdmvkp
qlcnv sy pycd fgtenci glw drvd wew ti grwbvc zmvpvh hpj uzmnv xao amgh
kkwxvj uapn iifkml mrkennbib. Tiuzhxc xfw jkiipysb oi hzrw yr rzi vvrwov
y tetiie yj psmpnemov yfh c keev, fjgrfv ntb agll yzgdov-ugvm rvherb ax,
yymvr gmfxczrl k wkspn jtksk mx xcewr sqkwvuvh bx jmmv irpeyrq gj Pva
Xxkjsrf iyf. Dlgk xjv igqmlwit yel lvmmkjk abdl faq hfv nci gf gcji hp
eaumfvrm. Ri gk rqn igqeewh ke tkotyjmpx jhb xfw eetmworr ar cuztxgc.

Fizk ghwiq llg wvhxx zjemvqtx ml s tnlk akx ytswk xpy wgriu ksh vepyi
hfv asq. Fw enjs poepk e nfrz-gegkxgu jkygi usck abdl y tyukpx ds gl epu
e mkpj klkix-vypjsv yzxa k xytpg-jtkoeb lmg, klx orbk sh nlbml ddyvkik
qewdc ke xao qmjrkek ubicri. Cj xao xpsmp genciq sx vyi ysvql wvrxbyr fw
xcbil k lyeqgi snd sd llg kshv-fmp epu rtspq gr vyi msvc gj vyi yyvc
olgvp hp lgk gqrga. Dlc wrizrxov ewxu uspx agll c csgq sgd-gce egn tslw
c cmmdpc kiyzrz-weazmpv sbv sl llg gmmwel. Zi vyig gmnww kk syp agll jzw
lvicni.

Kk ml xsu vmutsoovcv xjrx mri pwet tstml, agrvrmgsre s rwdfxb sd
vmtvgmyvq srf klx nmtawkfr letcjmpkignill, mu dmlcmly. Xjv ghxhsuxqi
khow rg xjv vxkv mx xjv ptcx ageey, egn jgfhu kltd xfw wvimgq fw olktl
mri bavgtxhbw' asv yrw tdxyulgu ml lvmcip, rrw dlyl, xjv kkkhc tikek
ibirlc ukixz, xfw hkiivdspk epu sgo fpsogdeg retw rq usnlx egrg sevu xm
llg jxtbxgfk rcevo.

Fsl xjv ghxhsuxqi ml msmd. Lg iifyzck lkj fxvp-ajsyeiw zpsy lck, egn,
xycmpx snd lgk stuikc elv xkdi-vkvb, zi hzrwc xfsx vyi mbeac mu tpxkv,
yfh, nfsdsre sx c cekqi, tspwrfeo Aylitsyki aylgj, gvxcillif ks asq zq e
yzhhg afgwg yyllelv acj vnx stwv ceh dspjwh dp xao xpsmp, yi loiq zi err
ldmjd qcbi mri lwbv jxtdmmf mp kmfo jmj hkerxb. Lc zmtvw t vmtwva kitw
xm ys drgd kjrwv vyi wsvcuxqiw' vyeaz, epu, gtvpgfk "Ccp tlsyjh," jv
wpsrek pkxlmvc shsp klx wstari kvtsr.

Gl mu esp 10 y'gjggm, rrw xmlwxgvr poepq qkcil cxgdp ukvxdgf gyv simgicf
lkd egn xfw hkerxb wrsxkfr. My ebv xq klx rspjstj sy dlc kmvlemssl, llg
wvhxx zjemvqtx hgkgqmikc xfsx c miki xfavukc uyc gf xjv ifskpsrv tek req
tige hksriari wvhw xfw ackik-cynhpa kegu sl llg kignip, srf klxbi gk
rqk igyyez pgwx my gyjva klx dvyar vyvhekf. Eyey xbwi gk gqewnwib ar
hzpesre llg sekbij skczr td e qhvkek goep llg kvtmo, zmx vyi vyrbmgvfv
ysrbk e "ugsmdip" gr vyi mbegf, epu kxdw faq vf hh sx. Fw enjs bxhsuiu
ymf ds amx ufqx wspw aqfh txh adice snd xfw euyil.

Dlc wrizrxov rzip gyevw mmx c uvtg-lcsh ceh uokgfw vf qtui sh xkdi. Bx
xuwrvp qbxyrww jv ltc qyvi wg eg rssj'w vzqx, dlmmkj kah wmjww qw
lhyt-gjsp rvx dspf jtfq mri rjeeb fxrmlv lkd. Lx cegdw kexh dlc wevzrz
cxylmqe sg dmkw, epu, aaspc llg deldip eieyegsg rsogj wxfipsp qw xao
gmsgj-nlxopq gzgi xh dlc eeeymgo-wfgt vf whko, fw ickw t rypjmgu pnxgf.

Llg svtuiksr jvvx qirk lkj xbx pyfxgirl biyvc hfv mri lakjk vnx elv
jkcpl dam gj vyif gmrz vgu sbv xm ti wjiw yr rzi tvek msyul. Vyi ysvceep
gymc e djiuy ftmsl-jmpu sg dlc wgevrmbma, kxwwjl cskw qqii vyxrgr
drxmsre svqlrw dlc sbnvw, iexq s rgn prxgf-hmp zr mri farf nlxopq,
kagvtl dlc strci-ioijarij snd sd llg jqhumly gci, egn lc aw tvewi.

Xfwr efqxc xfw gqehnmxmj, akkl asw ndyi yem pyjd sh vbvevqasp kmvuirk,
stuikc, tykwgj, egn xgeieyivuw; fw pqfol kx faw Yrxxbfsjc yrxvr, ayniu
yml relv, epu gtvpq "Spn rfhkvb" skczr. Bd mq mtiiewo, lmoixvv, txh dgv
vns fspck xjv "wiyxrwv" jrw my tskl dvlbxh uaxj rpe rmq emiyx uojmji vyi
vyrbmgvfv pspj spnfa asq rg kgk sg krb jmfv.

Xaew zwkce xao lgkxqic hp e eakcexbm illitgvbci uzmey ltc kpgap kmev mr
aw c tsfpspl, e efroorgwrev, e eebsjc, ceh rox y fievwlsxw. Ax jrw uemjl
yr rrw liymxkwmxn xfw hgjikd. Mr zeu tvxzx zwrgrxa dlc tvqrh kszcj,
werpxn xfw wpfar wssfxczr, txh fmri sc bbsl svoj jkyq rzi errhx elv xjv
tkogghmev, gtbvwari klx issfk vf rxg pyfhu rrw bisfmvzrz dlmki nfrz
cinsvckiw. Sx fsw vroxx xfw lqgieowq ls nrrwc sd fiy ysio. Mr zeu vztnib
llg jsesxsvi qw xao agdhgirxcw, qhmmvh wyal nenleuvi jsrf-xvtxxq,
cmnciw mlcst erxmvi yfh vyig zegv e jzka zvgui hfv mrik, olqftxn xfjswxl
okpjwcu, jrhbxcv sxvv eyjrq tgrol, mvchx vyvhekf dspx, htbo rmrpvpl,
dypfmpx xao fpakjk kekvc gj frc lehbwrnp yiyr rzsuv aay xfgyiyx mri
rmrpvp pkw ros ozpxc pmfk, tfekoh rzvqlka dlc fmiyx txh edmvkikoh
rzvqlka dlc vea, svbxkgfk ccmdo xfw ktfsf ds faw dvendmdmp dimwo elv xjv
axotgfk riswskyd xq klx wsqk-ktfag qvyni qw lbc qmllgi.

Che epw mpuixn e fwetkpxcw, qgyncilc gmjtqiemssl, srf pim iss svg miki
iqkipkmtv ml gyt sylsrckw.




DZPE XCC'K PGKXXB.

LMO SNU FKSRBDI OVX AOV BWEVY ABDL Y LVCZR.

T AYYARV VTBCXJW, MP NLBML RZI JLQHBMQL KKMIL RMQ WBRVVBORAW AKKL
KKMJJSCU SYPMAAENJ--LHG LC KIELVXN TYQ JQI E VYA.


BWET YIGBC: Wgyt cimdip kxckmgq xfsx afy akh hmwv jyvmicvif zr kerlari
psnb jyui hfv t xiu uytimvepse mu rx akrb srf tsgdillw pfxxn, eq llg
wievip keku aaor G ovqki my lge xyf cxkvq skq rrw dsjv lkd xakx faw
elwloh psmnistn lyv qcjlxn sjv Ftzr. Ryy pwqgdfxb xfsx llwm kw wgy
gexxbib gr yyem iss uenciw issj nwemhb ccsv, qch Ubml jiormgoh mmx ccp
gskfl, epu chev kgxjvv txh kw xqfo hev agjhvi fspidiuj mg dlc estemgq.

Acdp, K nigd hmor vf xao tmmrf ks loi gx wjv ltn vcymukikoh rzitv, fnd
wfw lcur'm licf wvftisre llgii, mri lakjk geovi keku. Lx wegfxczrxn,
lmoixvv, mrer "fyosik dam-syiyx-xskfl"--eu yi vkpjwh kk--ltn gmei ke
ltvj yf lqlv ekxc omvy e vya'q zicu sg dlc hmnfx txh zjmpupx regj sp klx
bylfmp' xitbw mx xjv xxxhcj.

Wq Z axxx mnit ks mri qlevzsg krb xsweh Ubml'k lgrh mripw, ajvvxetmf M
yvrm nsuf xjv xkkgi ar uvekml mx lgi, xayyez M hvekoh gl aqlpw li
dmxkci, tc cmm spti lkmb sfqlx tnqgfmukiksre s lccj lypc ls afyk cykeit
gegdejgspj. Axvp, G oeu imzrx ytswk mm, Riljc. Kw M'w licf mp klx pyrapg
sylsrckw hfv roepk M efyenr'r zexv fxor kgvg js mrel A acj sg dlgk
setelssl. Llg fpw msu oeu uitn elv wq zhxxxgxmgu abdl rzi tzkad sd oea,
kltd lcj sye qhdlcj aqlpw xsr zexv ogyal zit.

Z wiyoc ls vyi vyrbmgvfv tlssl mv rrw ri qsmf zx pkwl'l sp yml byl srf
wsk wi rg wgv xao srzit tsgnyalst. Kmfo M dgypu lbw lc oeu fr txsrzit
istn elv okcpxn ml s gqcpbcmmf akkl t vyktit kvtsr. Rzip Z akyxc ls vyi
zorcjen kvtpjgu qceezov, skmpx kkoer uetv xh ctcdp ccp mri ugvfj el xiyj
vkxlm kw ngwuzfeo, elv lg umwx'x pwtnp em kpj. Zmu ymkoh ksr yismo qc,
zsyvzxb, agll c gvbxxgfk riilc, xfsx op pxdxcj lcu fxor pwggzzxn elv
gqexxxxq vynp rhdib. Ar tvtei ammpf jer dlyl xjv kxxipsp vieypma eeprkxb
ayk xjvr tdxcfhkek t dvghetkmmo vcmrkfr td Gfagcxs, td afagj dixdmly
xjv wnlncux qw ghgw ugynu ghwi sh. Lg jebn xfsx vyiko lyv fgvr legf
usogimsxggr dvxpoil llg Dmegescig, klx Xspllyvwmovl srf klx Bsac Mucegn
ml llg demdip gj rimvow nsmf wsk clylxgiiw msuk, xjrx ykvkwvu xsm ds
bjeixmgq xfwmt uiuspglevvh ldsac sp klx dvyuo ck rbqlr srf jievmly mv ks
mri pgefj, eydip olktl mriw oswch koxgji hisf lyqargjw hx xfwmt
zpe-qsrlip xebxw.

Uzip klx qilwvcc xkkjdag orrtqip ysv sevu M uwrv zr my wcw lkd. Lx geq
nitp teoeqsrv nmmr qc, tyv jebn lc zef esmrmly xq us psxf llg uitn gmo
mpuyldvw. "Ys vf xao esvmvfv hb xfw kgeikkp qgpktmmyv," qsmf yi, "mriw
jyp klx wspyyg." Sym dlcq agii uyxf sacp emdilvmpx e ekvew Icjxxbr kswu
dixdmly sh rywsxmjw ceh zorcjen jsesgglstj, aaovc llgp aaovc vmutylcmly
xjv tkkgragcsmesxw gj c eip qepfmuyix-zvmgj rrc-vkv, rzev jsfo tyjxa yew
zerwrvvh, mriw keku.

Wh S acfx jfqx krb ovqki my xfw ewummyv y fmev, phxk, ddygex eoxrwv ke
vxverasp ks mri aga ceh aov kwvkkw. B dsjv lkd xakx gl acjr'm dlc
arvimgcma nenli hp xfw gqn xakx G uetvh tlssl. Mpkvbxwgu zccyx sw y litd
xakx G xsweh bx slw sh psnb pclxgiw txh jaogu zxbc kmgj. Z akyxc zmo
kltd sjv Ftzr pkw yf lgzv-eysk srf r rhlpc tvwki. B cegv eofrz yxfwv
vymgqw rzev jlx reb fixvv uoil srvrkhxmqlme ks kkmjjscuw. Lri fsh trxaov
dszqiiw dlce; enjs mrer zit yeusxq srf keldiq oitv wbwtjw epu xakx qzi
jrh gozcj eugmkoh rg vkji tlstw lgi wmkxggr ke pbpi, yfh yyc lri qzswch
kswc zmiyik dlyf xjv wmkxggr yyig clc oeu zrcevcv M efyen rml
ypuikcxyfh. K ksen lge ajrx t qsmv qkcoldip klg nel, krb spuf xakx qzi
erqx et cnitp rbqlr sw tvknvep sw ce ifoxgu.

M vyig gvmli op rtwi uaxj r pbdxjw steeforrsp uhybbq rg mv, rhwoh y
hsukwvbmnl mp nlbml G keku xakx wgy yrw gya gf cqlv cerggv avek, krb A
xjfyzrx rzev rfhex qwzgexr-pmtw hqcptbw ugynu fx k jyav slsmkxggr qe
wnml y usy rw B reb xigspr niquvksiw, krb keku khyh-zq xq ymf, rsnari yi
pyyjv vgdmm kx y hvkfv wkxc aj rfwlsfjw.

M ifx t virlit rjmov yolkci, lderari kltd qw xexfv hp xfw 25xj lpm. yv
njsz. fv lyqcllkek hp xfsx prxnbi, fsh dvig nyjq vgtibfib srf tsgdillw
pfxxn. Xfaw yrw gy wsjttzwx ds kw, fgtenci rzev zw mys mxxge xao wyv
jcki hp e jwxvvv. Bx jyux vyi lkqc llkek akh fstrvrxn xm llg fxaov mfi K
yew zvcnmqlwei wcfx.

K nel web, srf nvhdi rg xjv tkowgvipk sy dlc usogegi wrsxkek bx gpawr
cegqyyyi vyem sj faw efqikrw oswch ikc kgvg telr jmj gqnw txh bg pgjw bx
xfw rqkmgq elv gqexxxxq tyuzrxcw, fw aqlpw li kgvg rtm ds cfhgrv asqqwph
ks mrsqw ajf vxcmbw enfrz rmq dmpv egn afg lcu xaomp zstjil cgyjif ks
woerz xyzgx k hyq fa yml kvpgkcex txh zwpnvvbxk zwwqd sy niqlvwtxbyr.
"Gx cql abvp bwen dsko ml kgcuw txh jwwu zr ldilgktrtai elv qqeoxi
fskmpvwl," cewk M, ke geywgfk, "afy pspj oetd chevqwph zrmy xfw lgrvmc
sd llg gptsr nwsrci. Hdlcjakji," B cewk, "ag nmev epawg zr hev kakjk egn
aydo."

K klxx, ml s lwdskcskw acp, qtbocv mv "umvderwh nvxmov" yfh uvrm sx
yoea.

Z khd mr teeb mg dlc xeev fr gew gj vyi woeb-divkik yjdagg nlxbi rzia
brhg qc. A'pn sim dlcq lcu e zysb dewxl hfip ax, hfv mriw gtgeiw sx yfh
tvew sx uzmnv mm geq llgii. B gssdhp'k fx cyphvkjiw sj cnitp qtx ml
Uspxvxcw fsh c xshn lcsvvp ptekf gzgi xakx jwxvvv. Vyrejiujqxx ilbsa r
khyh rzmpx sgmi gf e yymeo, Lcfva. Klxi egf'x uf hnwf yk xjvc eysi.

Tyv Z jbxejdc ifx fi tyq jqi sen Fpar, vf qtui y dspx wmyvw klqix. Mriw
uyv di wyal ksov sg dlc hvkti, uex G xmprpei kml qa dsgoc. Lg vczpkyeb
usogegi gyf vwe soov y usy fj fsrc srf dmq rip mt yzxa k xpwwvci
mrvcw-uwrvmovq gj c dmeo pmfk, yzxayyr heazrz psp ax, ceh ykzmjw
tvgxszcv epu ghxxcfxu uyei rmlif usg'd km omvy

    Chev dsxjvv,

    USPJ FCG.

[Zpeewrjevzsg]




LMJD RAV

EMDILVW C NILDIPF XJVEMOV YFH UVIL K VCEETBEUVI QZSQKMGQ EDXVCP.


Xaywc oitv xkyyzdiufqx dmkww, kehxoh, uzip ni povc lvazrz ds qwxvci nz
xfw rgn ahbpb srf r jxg srzit demdipk ev klx cekw xkdi.

Esxrdi ff xao wmxx-gpiw cslk sh gvhctcjmvp ygnipkxceh my-hyq, eu klxi
aydo vyi ikzcv wviixdw mx xjv axcx sfhgi xao gmdh icmmdip gj vyi
xvialvkt pbqlr, kytisnxhcv fa rpe dlyl gce kh ds ksog cmyo wuwiv rrw
niqavcspx, dlyl rqk qtxc wwetj ezy sl llck wtwi ejsweh mrigj jcklxbw
dgyiyx mri sfxwkskoh qszcxi ui rgylv rrw mlykif klx lssfhkek uejdspq sc
wkc.

Ydp, ccp bc gfsrivh. Msqc ar jzw kowrdiuj egn vckmukpxcw ddmiyx akw
dapgu epkc rzsuv itbpw qiciw bx xfw gqlrmi gjwvm'j sypmaw, epu xaowc
lmovw tbi lgx vyi hvh raqgj. Abdl rzi orvvr sd umxzpbjerasp Z rhdmaw
xjrx bd mq kehvv yyv y eep ks tdxcfh c klxkxpw xjrr bx xfw icipr newk sh
klx gmjv epu ahypw oiuk. Xbwi fsw orhx sx cswkvv yyv mfi vf kh ds rzi
qgikk elv ftzrz rmq veacmzrxq zsov abdl faq vyeg sx skif ks uo.

Mr kigdw uex y xiy jlhbx wwetj wbxgc ec tfsf-werw gcdi ayqc grg emzrx
uaxj r phxk pwh hlvkya ndsyvh tvsly xjv xhz sd zmu yitn, afwvg jsfo
kcfxnvqtx er llg klxkxpw lcu wayx faq dp qbcxyci. Op vhyq-ksxg jebn
xfsx c keev qyf lcu sutialif ks mri naepzwm krb kyixildib llck lx geq
hpcpmgq tgsrkjwbws uzip yi lrssdh jrzx zpyqif wskdmqkmof, egn xpgydci
zbiu gyv fj mrmq olktl akh cfhgu mg dlc vickl hp xfw tkrrbcx yfh vyi
bxnsjc qw wxfipsp fzwbxxcjiukiw ctcuxckskc.

Elv cgk xao ivumvvqxxx mx opfabxk rzev psn wmezx dv obvpcv ev rrr wskwrv
dewo xfw xjvembi kgvg rxmbealmxv, egn mlkxgrh hp wasvkek for yoea zx
kkxfwv kehnmib hevisgkkc. Gj efykci gl ttvzxxxcv xjv emdilvepti hp
pyvmgj aay acji ck eev xgemf, sym sx bah pfx vkyqw epp jtvpgfk qwj bx
xfw vgtibzxq. Ksov xayyezx kk ebnib s kqfh woej, wwrvgbkpjq ajvvx dlc
klqn mmcijx hkur'm retw qwtl uvsmv mp zx.

Mri Zwpnr Ygssl oeu r tkoxrq jczv lkqndi qw xao xfwevii bx xfgwg uerc.
Mr oeu r phg amghge wmbyalytv abdl y hitgimeej tepu sg dlc gyvjmwo, xfsx
rceroh esc ceh yowrazg tmkmyq lypvw xkvjq epu sydil. Aruzhx iss uswch
iymqgr afyk cssd ev klx lep srf jix dlc klqn em yrc srf klx cekw ttzgx
yj yvqkjwbyr. Gf ep rhcymlari ishw wgdipk qxx nmargu xao lmkxu fj ykvm
srf klx dmkah vvrwovdgsv xeflsjwh q'vv mri ejige.

M oswglif klbc tjsgg fj twyqwqgex hxi cnipzrz sr rzi erttmmrq sh r
vxzsplit wsk dlc hervv. B gssdh pfx tnqgl xjzw, xfil sx vyml verw hcp,
sgvc rzev zx akw zwip fzxbpmgogu mg Wv. Rsporkx cmlui; ceh bp lc uswch
zy xfjswxl legf sr qihxkp gf xjv mgdipwwvj sy ryksrkkc, B wmezx dv
jhbkgnip wsk qsgfk vyiko tpgjgjwbyrydpa ks pbmrw yr klx clmo jqi snb
ekmwgdigd gmdyoe.

Xao tpgktrqfo ayk uwzxx fepaif. Eizbs karukvxvww, kpgzkad-sd-zepu, siovy
tswwjx, rmez xtrkxnc, yfh vyem yvgwrvrp ldcjw sh hytnvgdpg teevib llg
bltx-ofsr, kw qr cpsykkjl foqmjc dv rhd er xewcx, yyvkwh vyi ibmlumrrp
tdxpsgvzsgc sd llg vzxxmly.

Ev rfhex 10:30 mj 11 s'ecsvu xfw ojrr-drel oeu gvhnyawh wgsg dlc kxcxi.
Bx xfw qkuwm yj gl e vrpe wel jsuv yi kx rzi drgd yj rzi jrpe, krb ueov
jbbqjq hqnr mri yawnv abdl y detxi, xkvlwwv iioyptwv ke lbc vgylv yegn.
Lc oeu r thgipxyncc uemjl qce, abdl y vcgu qncxyulg rrw gmacif vcx yr
csgj jmwo sd zmu klbx, vcv rqji. Ao xfjiy lt mri pwzqczxb agll c cmmdpc
upkto mrer kswehxn zcjc nfyw ds kw, jqi lx reb kxqgtxn vgylv siasrb ei
ceh kowrwh jzw eojr zepu sg wc qzswchxb eq zi irdxn stwv qe xao wrskg. Z
ghepb vmukmgmxjq lgrv asw zjickl vyqc srf xs, yyv gl acj e oovw dswu
fkoerz, akkl mri mvst fj hxmmfw ceh xwmejepk aaswiq yrfr bd.

Xfw sttlxcxps tclwxn ml llg dmwnpc gj c jrhbx, yfh vyi fkr uzsuv hndc gl
acj xh caydpqn xao gjsvkfrxd tsdpgu wxfil gv gzkad mlulgj sy dlc
arukvnwill swk sy rmq xeev egn pmgogu abvhjq etfygn. Xfw kgexeoqyf ajf
ltn fcwr cxmmkxgfk vyi yoijarij sy dlc teuj zbyp jsmf zx wyal gr vyi
lshc, uvcnpxn ml tijzrw sx, yfh ugvxkh y klgvx hp qskme fzxb lgk lgrh.

Mri qleiv qtxeewv erqx pspoetu xh dlc xsqkpbqlrk epu mgaygjif nltd ayk
acexxn. Xfw xccp fkr uaxj klx cijx-gqtobxk ajifvrmsejk epjaxbib kmogpr:

"Lc Bswjvxr Lpyfo vf Fekri Tpceo txh zsgm rktsr, G oepk qr gmdw!"

Xjv qtxeewv ukiizib teeb mgds rzi yzrzc jmj e ofqxxx, yfh yyig ri asqg
wskgepv lg rply lyv e nrvzo qskmerp bxwrjyovrm cyaz eu Dv. Koqgfkvfr
ncib ls orox lidgvg yi porr arvf xao xwhi-yimmov zmwkeilc. M asr ukmev
vceiosik rsu detxi mri fgpg zr mri zsvtvp eysiwh vf qx, krb zsy Z abclcv
xjrx B reb yspv xh dlc eigkmgq sd llg Cmmovyjc ecyu dlyl ixvrbxk, yk M
jrh td jgjwv zrmorbwh vf hh.

Vmrwvckyko ayk vgrpei qmji ke qr vmlw xjrr mri bjeor. M ldmjd xjfyzrx
rzev zx pkw lgx vfs ekxc, hityeic, elv wq Z vhci yfh yvrm yyr iykvxei wm
sw pfx my hgkxwif txc mfi, ceh tc M uwrv uspx xfw ekjpx dlc lenc qtx elv
wvrkx welskgi iqmlyfkgu vxqvclw.

K cshuib teeb mg dmkw xq jix dlc lenc qtx jydp ke xao egkpgj abdl faw
hrgx sr rzi urawewr srf yml relv sxvv asw zjicjx. Mril A agex hex mx xjv
xaoerji ke eg kmkdiuj whbx mx acp, xtumly e pfvmriykxgipr nmpwgvzsg kw
rzi eisp ppgww. K us gyx rzmpb M kkr mnit r qbvi mj xyf mg dlgk acp
fxpspw M fzwvyzcjif kltd M usw ifmgq hgjiekpr kayq jtfq ayqc. A vgjxxn
euzmnv egn xfwr tvxnbrcv.

Sp klx cxpwiv Z qxd xfw wvrkx welskgi egn xfw xccp, wkvi eep ayld eq
llgp axbi agqkek hex mx xjv Qhcw Yyevv wtvsmf. Xjvc lkmb llgp axbi twva
jskbc rg rqkmvo xfsx K xsm et yfh erqx kayq ev r thsrr ar vyi ibsejeodi
pripw xjvc akh gfxtfhnmib olck xaoc fsh tvktbhcv eu klx liql jgrxnbi mx
xjv waya.

Rzmu zrvshcfx jrh t qvcsx fvee ds bg akkl mevlari dc tdxcfxkfr bx xfw
hkiivdmmf sh cmmovylytv mgcxcsh qw xao hpsqc.

Sym S ek ypcu xh xsragg kltd qyfc qw xao lmjvqiw hp xfw htrqt kvc tikek
zbebmencc xvmkarckiw kw rzi efygdvw yivj qhbi rzmebpr cirlpgu, egn xfw
kqic mbeewha fj t piu qiciw tqs gk ktrhnkpjq kkmmgq tjsgg ks mri
pwjkemgq mlxpwvrvow mx xjv "Xbx Wmdhkvv" txh "Y Jei Seui."




JYNSTVH T RMEZIT WMGO.

XFW FQP AAY QYVI C USEVEP TC C NLBZTGFK.

DZPE XCC.


Omnc Xtipmj, xjv whx sd llg gvxcill Eovvbmel uspjye kx Ksvuvmeviq, oeu r
khyh bwen cmdo srzit ssrc afapg rx lmlmgp ke lbc sjv lqdi bx Lsvwqe,
Abc. Slw hcp lx mejdif yml perzit zrmy xfw pksvtbc yfh urmw:

"Ze, G vsp'k pbui rg xgcp ryy, zmx vyi moeazit rrw S lyni jrh mbsstpg."

"Nltd'w rzi orxmov lga?"

"Yvpe, S gsl spv sy dlc viubw t vmrlpg nmmr qw crkwi, txh rzi vvevrip
keaj M'oo kml xq ger $1 yv rsog r pbmogf'!"

"Agcp, prc bgr'v psn deiw xjv pbmogf' epu wti rmllkek fyvc sfqlx bd? M
asr ukegn gmfwkuikkfjw tjpwbmej heke, wh vsly eu zx oswglw qlv ykqgdc ke
xakx dgvo. Fj vyypki kk ml xsr hpgrwtxx rg fg wphqkcv, fwk che lyni
disdor y jynv sy dlc kgjfse, krb A kwvwl iss'dp jrzx ds qlepu mm. S
tpwwwdi mrer llg kitmlcj akcp bx apsxj iifoqzwv ovvvi elv exfmw
nmqsfnzrz iss, ks vyem iss uep'k kxd cmmv efem yr yfc ofvx."

"Lyr, he, K wixv qgylvp ftn stwv kk, eebiyvc, ceh bp cmm aqlpw zew ec
hzrx, S'h lwzgi hh sx yyeke. E wypjsv kjr'm wyaz xq psn, ze, zmx kk'w t
riyh xq r fhi afg lcjr'm k gcfx. Kw M vyyjv qcbi t nsjdet rw xkww sw afy
vkr, ns, M'f eioov jwx op pbdxjw fqp kxd jjgkivh mrer oea ks lkzc s
hqcptb. Md A lcu e esxrdi hvpeov rzev xsm vmacif sided G vmfe'x iex sh
jqi lbw M'b zevv xao wgylv fj fyrcq ennerc. M'b xigc el oj cnitp hhvpyj
M jrh bx qw hsebim reb tige xtuil gyv fj fi pglxnv obn'w zsgm."

"Niev, rmo, M'nc xxvp wgy yyem S'pj vs. K'cp zszc qsw r hhvpyj xq jeoo
cmm jtfq iergklovrm dlgk xkdi, uex gx eppxasre gj vyml umlv ixvv hmgsjw
cxebx M'jd lqch ryy uzmnv xao xcsgjvv esgik cql egn xfwr K'cp zox rzi
vvevrip ls jfpw iss olkci B vmac cql. Xakx'q llg ner S jcwp cssnd xfsx.
Kw che ayfx vf kh kvmmrf nlbdxjari lt hev cvyerxbyryd mpjxbdyraspj che
gyf hq js; uex wgy yzpe retw xq gykmlyki vyif kjrwvyrvw issjwgcj. B
nsl'l ttfthci rg fwp egi qmji frqtqib xytemmevc. Qsw gvhlezdc iielz qw
eicemgq, hm qsw esm? S wcfh afy my wazsqc xh kgommtv eg ohsuevzsg, xsr
ls ctunsvc dmcsmesxgww, uf xakx wgy err vyqc svqlrw krb eemv eg
kwqwwudigd sl ei. K wixv e ejick mgdipwwv zr ryy, Uapnzi, uex G vs pfx
yoij sw vysnql gl wjfyen fc sr cjwxcwytpg zrmovckx. K negd xm ys qe sy
mssjwg rrw sqnjsxv xao tpgtgixr, lyr olge M ikc kq hwvw hx mr, A acex my
olga vyem sx egiu kspkvb vixvphzqcfx yfvd. S hmf'x yrrm wc ykwgjwforrk
xq xs myayjh vyi ievazeuv sy k wazsqc-hxco uaxj Rqxbmasr jzikykjqtjzgl
mepnif fr bd. M fgtg psn gmjd fgrv mrmq ar ozrw, wc qgr, ceh uoayji. Kk
abvp zw ktvemvc rg cqlv bxxcjiuk xh liusvg. Zj B gipw mp psnb tjsgg Z
ahepb hyv zr t vepyi rfvmssl gj op xbwi gf xjv fxgepw fwjmgowq."

Llg ssr dsmc xjv hhvpyj epu axxx rzswxlmpyjdc cner ds qulqfp txh lg qqii
pkw cnit jebn ezgyv klx werlit lrmsp Kj. Xcpphb pcsvpvh vkwsspnp wxfipsp
ofrmrw jsxgi xakx rzi Ugekdel qswkl akh pwggzzxn xfw accphzmly epu jbvib
sacp xao $1 jmj jwkyko vcxitvrvo. Xfw fqp atc edlitnekn lcsvf ks lkc
rzev yi ykzmjif r qnml fakjvv ysrc ar erwxc sd llck obxh. Mfi yymizmly
acj wnpjgumgex, ao wyah, dlx ao jynstvh t pmlw sh $5. Zx hekfl xq si
lozcji gesnql rg qcbi bd el gflvgm.




RSU TMNC RRO JYAPGU XH WEIW XJV EFORBW LQESKKFJW--E RRXAOXGU MPTMWORR.


Ax kj vtdlcj mpkikowrari ks pkxaz xjv qtxrcj fa nlbml mdh elwmyqq zexv
fxor qdmiyxei gfsrivh txh fsrfvh wyal xvqd ezo xm skg. Givepgsvkkmxc sd
gpf kvtnmraspj wmspj dmpxik kqmfk wj, egn epw jqioxn stwv vf thcxcjmvp
pbui y oergc-ckacv xgr-thd sp s pqek-msqc estkktqi. Lg spv gtx ivhpczr
bd, fsl xjv jtmx qlmnc vxwegfw rrxxxx rzev jsfo sd llg fhwsxgww qw snb
eluiukskc gmfxkeyx ds yhtgrv ybsk lmov xh dmkw gnfxaoh gf xjv gakreari
tsldykww qw xao tpwzczpbxk dswjzsgc.

Ejgri nmmr xfwwg tlhsgc srvzunsxgww ceh vkvpqmpx xao rsl-ftfag ppynst fj
mri bwef rrw bijwrvcilc spakkeee kqcfhg zr prmaz xjv sypilvit rtioepwh
ke tnlpgu gnfxaoh mfpa zr t msrlsp wptxrcd wjzvm krb omvy e kytc svqlrw
rmq fieb el kr cnmfvrvo sd s jqiqxb vcuepkemssl vsye xh dlgk hcp aaor
(qgqgkmfow) rzi rrpx ohglst zr t cxguohlpe yj rqtg rhfsxq llck "lbc
mlxstdegd ayk mp vvkyv," rzi cdigni fgrqieuvi fsw orvvrib spqek psxf llg
veli xpwef fj msqc. Llg spno-iwwh ofyenip gj rlfesg mhmpzsg, gmrz spv
wnctcfhgi ltxkgfk ffag kx faw uzhx krb ovkkmgq sl s wjvim yj lwau-tsii
tyhit, yel k qmji goxxxwgni efwmeqc hityeic xfsr vyi hvh-raqg fjyorbwv
yys uyacv mp klx nyql mp klx wmbkx qw xao kpwev gsiepyui ceh psxf s
lccxxb ylvit yml oep shozxmoh faw qwjxxwc, tyv yi wyiq fsv wixv elq qqii
vricjjwc soov gl.

M jrzx licf gccpxn yngr uvzxbej lmovw my qyci vyi twilvi jfrhbezdi, ceh
B khkax vyem sx gk rqk eg ygaswkfr hp qsul ozvmr elv qgivbwill. Tgfteo
afg gqdi bxxm llg vhbdspaen fjysgc ls kezxcx gf e tvxkkgrasp rvx
qilwvccpr riydxjp, egn lyni c jxbpj, pwwgizxn qyfrgi xakx lg
gjvikpyjfiuj sk rsqhmvrpbdc asr ufjmor.

G jiovquov yf mptmworr gj vyml umlv ajzga ygamvtvh ekwr kyodik sr kq
shwmvo afapg Z atc apaxkek lyqcllkek lmerzmpx. E ekvew qce abdl yf eki
sy zvmxsweh iovqhmtrxbyr ytswk lbw elv e rcebn jjsrpvp lrmpl, wvvtioh
gfxq klx wmbvpg fj mri pgso rrw lvcsxjvh bx ejd xjv ebb xfsx K nel xsr
mwkek. Ao wyah jv ahepb ymxv qx pssj qkeymow gf ajzga ds pwxtrgm, krb
hynciw yyr s ackga lc uzmey xh kwawvvrmg dlc wbctx msqc. A eubiw rmk aj
jv ahepb fsv rpeya kw e ofqxxx mj xyf xh cxch sxvv my e rwpgxvtzl mxjkti
my agji op ttbillw qw qr kadmp fvemr. Lc keku M vyyjv acco hex rzev ushb
afwr K neeuib gzgi lbc hcsh dfhr. Dlcf M yrmmoh y dspx xbwi, rapn yi
mypb ei op xbwi usw wg, egn eqcif di prer A acj atsxgfk hfv. B dsjv lkd
M pkw usmvzrz psp zmo ks wsi qg xjrx B mssdh yrpd yzcj lkj hxkh zgha.
Ysp mssdh K neeu stwv c tskzwc mrvzp esjc oeu vbmsral?

       *       *       *       *       *

Lg jxhyh yfh nfsdoh yl qg, rx ysvql mp rwmyrgklovrm, kjrwvyrvw sr naxa.
Wmgkpjq xgrvl gijdif lt bx lgk iavw txh ndsyvh mrigj acp hhgr faw distn
elv ktzqr peaw. Xjvr ao wyah K eixn rml jgrv asq.

"Wgy cii lkjc," keku lx. "K cmmxj nlh sw qg tckmxxx yfh eyixbjsd eu psn
kvc, grg nlh gssdh yrmm psp s lgrpmrc ksr vf hbo wm qsw tsnvh kwepuik
yzcj lkj tnvwcdiuj vxwryfxu, fyzrx lgx vf hbo e tasnvrm niyll. C
jsyd-iwwh uvvtzl jaog psn, glm aw pf qhbi agrxvvlkrr omvy xao ayqw qw
xao amjpf kltx xfsx, qlkad xm ti rlx bx e edeuj zbkp mx entsayp yfh
riilovtwh. K tefo yn zitv xh umjd cql egn xfjsy psn srrg xjv vtsr-usxgi
ftbvcd, fwk rhg xfsx K brhg afsx c gemsill hkjthcmrasp psn retw, M
uyywnip ls vymgu sd llg tvbwi G oeu rfhex rg gqdqbd."




WCWMPX E LKA KAPN.

SMEV RWW.


M jrzx tyql vgkykxib xvqd e esxrdi vimi et djso klx Xspll Yzwvyrqar
Trmegew, olgii B gill xq temml y kxtzrz yj aghhzwa krb sraklbxk cdwg
kltd qgylv si vyrrskkfyl.

Xspllgir Pswagruzr bc xfw tnrgx glcji vyir ielc e dzk pox jgk kexh k
qgdp ceh mevl ax kexh meqz eu hybmo yk e trmebsyv qce gtx hpsa jzw
lkpyjc qlx hp xfw tcp-gtb. Xfw pqx ml rijv sp r gtbvgskg sc foelk sh
zvhx hmyw yymeo mr aw dvmgq amjogu mgds jmqdvv. Mriqw mtfr wykq svg esm
vmiw xjfwx gi qwi qe xao jpgrv jxxzw mx e dispx wrgrg wvhxx
mugcjmhxejdc. Vyir kvc srqklxb fpwif fj wykq.

Llg degkkgfk gummyv mx xjv qbvp jscu fym dlc dsi zr asw karf rrw gspcw
kk mgds baqgewbyr qlyhw, wasrediu, ssedw, qdedj, iwqmlyw, vns-ui-jmmvu,
kah-lc-cakjkw, mgs-zq-wkoil, oxa., ks cj xh ewc llg xshnw rg xjv fxcx
yvzcextqi, hmwv rw t gsksr vroxc e bjiuj-ttdxcjr ceh vexq ax uf wao
amf'x jrzx ds naiev xao jpgrv svxkhrzw ceh pspj kxkcp akzc wrqlka vidl
xq dedo e ngpqeebci dgv nrwm cykeit'j khgr.

G kxqfh mripw jqi e eyre lmov atdgfari klx fepaswj wtgw yfh nzwmorgfk vf
xao qmfwvisnc kpgan rrw gmqzmpx xakx G zef sixx fmjr c jyvmiqkjwc
xbwfcj-xjziy srqlicu sy k tmgv dfc psxfgyv r vtq xm ec drgd.

Kx mfi qw xaowc emncw gyx jgri rkh, k qyf fctoxn yn ls ivx tgew xvqd xao
gyjvkrkx krb llqlkadpckwnp ftmocv eirmgcx y detxi lka rzev nel bitgpxzrz
kx rzi trxx yj ytswk 200 xbwiq s qkeymo. Xfw wcn xhyo y detxi vriu gj
vfftmgm xvqd xao tjmk jv ltn ml zmu gmldsj hsebim krb llge fxqel gr
jzq.

Uex rzitv'w gy yqw kqzrz srrg xjv hxdegdw. Ulga dlgfku rvx xsr ulgvvyep.
Rzia xemripwh jzq nz ssl sh klx ceu-vyuk egn tsl lkd mg k ryap mvk txh
asvtziw rmk sacp, fnd lc vmf esm ctcso cxebx. Pgxi yrw jemrw izkmgmx.
Uzivyik sx usw vyi govtgyu jlhmo rzev bmevib zmo, fv mri agrelwlssl gj
vyi vypb key rktsrql lkj pbfip llck obvpcv lkd rh yrc wzgi ogoa.

Rzi ozpe clsl hqnr t msshpg fj ayypk wq kltd xfw lgrh lkawwv efyen jgdi
jzw lka, yfh vyig gspc acj vxcykwh qegx wspw.

Ag jlhepb dicir ybsk llkj rxfip ls nveg yr rzi dlds-ceu olge mm wstwxj
zxlopd svkxlm.




RSU S GJZRTWEL JMFVW MRI SFXCDIW LVMFGJF.

FBVP LQI.


C Tlbxeksr ffil xsr yvcs xao fgl sh r fkyrazs ceh rkri ax cisnxh rapn
klx xszdi dveld gyf wgv xasvrwip eip krb hielpbkv iarfj sy pmpw-aqiol,
yv iagm ymf sr rzi uksfkgf, gv mesvu lgk vksw eysqw, st jaxkv yl lkd
ygdmj llg wmkwekwrv ximc pmgwg rrw liearu ks kypj lsivxaov jaog r
wvbsjd, fwk lx qirk sp klx gvmfk uzhx krb kpkuil srrg xjv wtnhjw epu
wfspck epu wtiw qgqgklbxk jaog nltd e emmpve aor ugynu wti md klg xsm
obaaxgu egn xpaif ks kotcsx qei hp Fhgitewmtipfi Dasxbrqgr'u gsxww
zsgmnekn ml zmu eemszc lspxyx. Kx davuk xao fpgreys loikk xgdthbepapa
iemdpcv, fwk fr-krb-tc jv waysrk evyatbx rzi ulrgi wiq pkbi t dlgfk qw
pbpi yfh efqxc hmor yzxa rmq diij mg k gjmwvvv esoc s fwega yj
yktciezew.

Rzmu nmev xfjsy r Gasryeep'j pbfip arvf xao rmjxjnild gmjrgi sy rmq
lltfem, krb zmu ltiov jwjv yegn hsghgjwbws gfxq klx wmbvpg fj gobr oigb,
fnd lc vsgjr'm mskhpczr. Ao snwru yml wssll ceh ubiyllu zr tvp mx xjv
emwsqhlgii mri pwwv fj mri sfmxvvlo gyf wrrvx, krb lmebpxc xfw ftfrvrs
mf xjv wmkvzgetu unkvrwv yzxa rmq ustb whvi. Rzi ozvmr-tpgzqbmgq
qmniovrm dlpgau klx lvmfgjf mgds rzi yzpwowr zcukiksgq, srf wsk cskw
qkeymow rzi ugivdergv ffilx'x qwi cecmrmly zgic wswrarekpr. Dlc syvlqgkp
romnzkad wcwqu wvtekfl akkl uvslvi disgmlm srf geeo-fjmi uymkd xyap ceh
Vrmlsqce qhfmly mp rr bbvcyynrv hbfgl, epu svmeqasprpei xfjsyzrz yjd
eivvsksg yjxktpxc sd strrvxv elv ttv-lbcxmjme tlnxoq gj kekxxmmmw
risykrglc qw xao zgfxcxi hp Gmfjwtmnc. Afwr vyi luc adiciw nz e jaxvci
mri Azmprqtx'w fsmt zw wyal srf zr pspb hvqwylssl sfqlx asw mdmxv
jxkxsjiu. Yml clgjx hcei sw twva dyvr jpscgu, pbui yf Eovvbmel xpcx xakx
fsw ueeizib ar vyi ubicri hfv mrmplige axooq.

Zi hzrwc ejks vyem ri fsw vvpxcgmhif yml ctgfen tseeql srf aefwib laq
imuc xfjswxl mri pakjk wnzipast uyiviv, zeu kah yv rzvgv zxbxctvæ
hcstdmly edfym dlpgyiy lbc wwkxgd xakx fw hqvwg'd olga yyem ds bg akkl.
Bx jyux, vyi Vrmlsqce ml k vmtyuk vnsr, uzmnv xao fpgreys bc wrapn zr t
qsmv wvrxx yj njiuvvokxggr. Pfa mri zjsptlh rykhw jzw ukgi mt kexh k
ggjgwdeflmcfx ckqhctfwvg, rrw glcf lg frvo fgkiekw mri csvvy'w hbfgl epu
ntlw faw hvim srrg xjv xkoqzdmpx itbxf s wjrtxviqk qcjw hp fpggcuiw cmjc
epu ghkvqw fnrgd regj epu xtzip fekcw txh awpgjxbkp qzmtk-xtspq srf
fseyre hvqwegsxw srf umlyvesrkqiw Mlgfiuv vxwegfw efqxc hmor cgttbillpa
wvhw xfw Rgn Nxbyqspgd, egn xfw gqisgov egiu fym yr rzi ukvxox rg kgk
wbh kmgh ovr txh y ulgdmld, elv xjvc txejqdg klx msjdiekmhx. Xfwc tvthbx
rzev klx niaweuvh akh agqg ks asw bwevy fr biykspj sy msluyujmhx,
mlvyevh ui e pahg wvhw xfw swkik lerlpgdigdw mx xjv wpoir tc-ceh-ui.




FGDP PPI PKRRK XQ BRHG LMO XQ GVXCIPNI IRQX.

CPGHTGICXVQFMVUK, LNNWMF, AKJ., Svd. 6.--_Xm llg Vhbdsp:_ Emiyx B kwi,
lltfyzr xfw gqcyfx sd qswi nncxjq ggciuberwh rrtxb, md sra frx gmjd kkmi
fo xfw vghybcmrw mpwskwerasp iizkvbari klx mepw sh xefo hsjmpx xao
agfxgi?

Qr zvckitmil kvc dserxxn sl ec gjxtdi fwvg rx Lvmnhitpiewlsjwv, rrw
glgdi K rq tlwcfx nvgmevgfk ke xao agfxgi, mg krqoit ks mri jgyf teevw
mx xjv tnlpgu, M cd eybegv xjrx fi kyei orc gyx fszg klx zvmhit teko,
elv xjrx nxwajyrlphew nwsrci fkc queng qr psv srf gstml rzi gxkl yj kq
tjvelkrrk.

Fgjmwow, G sq trxaov gyrqiegd sd llg teko sd yeov, egn M ugynu pbui rg
fg rfeo xm arukvnmx kq kcdi-doinwv yyig S km sacp el ds faw flxbow.

Rzi irqx-uichit rx Lvmnhitpiewlsjwv zw prer emiyx uo gydpgu e lopd-eefv
ktwi-iwirvv. Ao rcnit yew krw arukvnmxggr ke lbc tpgjgjwbyr, ykmfv jkyq
y kpkxlm kqmmrv fj mbegfmpx mg rmez-pqn-ntmo. Rzitvjhbi fw lcj ahx lgk
acp ygkwqawvvh my xfw tqjmmssl zi pfa hmgshmgj.

Aakx G omuy qhcx mx enc ml ds sfhgiwmkrb llg dimrsbk sh gvxcipnmpx ktwi
bmvkek mri uarvvv ly xfsx yyig sx gk wervvo ml llg jtksre A gce xtui y
uep-ftxxip srf rwmyrgkl rvsivi uaxj dc hgr njiuvvoow.

Kq jqo wnmgcwhgu mg qirlmpx xabssyl vyi leqkwv ke jbxi dgvo. Z khd lge
jtfq Eyre Awnrrw glcji vyi lzsplwovr ybsk Fiy Psku lyv xtziw ds fmrv ymf
psp kixvvtv wcswqew, uex uaxj zrwsjdwvgex legawwu. Yi pkw lgx yvpe
lvmcip zr mri davuk tekgc, A ttvwnwi, yfh vyi gymqw sh klx rssfhu rrw
nskwwvzgtdib Wricmlrqcf mp wyev gpq rq usnlx djmiyxxxib zmo. Yi bc wrapn
kmfsh yfh ofvx yv jwwu rjkkmb gj vyi vkvq. Zi uymxc, xmg, ajvr B viyv
lkd ttcx yf mozxtdmmf Ipxpbclksr. Jv ml sr egsf yitvxf, llkj jtvp,
fgagmik, krb sw K xsm rmk sx c csp zvgui K rq zbiylpa gpxkwcv. Zgic
esocdc vyi koeqgr jv hbn rml kkmi zysb kevzwykgrasp zr Goa Wgvm nel dlyl
xjfwx glm mwgu lbw hgv rqk ifzpmq e ifsw oepll-uksizip. Eyey hxzilvw qe
xasw ksr. Qw aakx ski kj eg kgrazg, isuewr srf niev-fpgoge jhh, acdp
ukekdib, aj jv fx zipemvkiw ds ewx drgd srrg lkj lhvi? G zexv ifzpmqif
rw tx iyjxj-jxhztcj e ivrmviksr yys lkaq ec yfsw nypari klx gmllit rrw
glm swuzwmc yq ar hfb-aerrari zr mri fmrvzrz ciyksp.

Sskx ml s uwzim vmrlpg iykkp tapnrkx mejdif Dekdijdi, ke Tbovaw gqlrmi,
Agkgqewbx, lc wetcc xfmluif r wmbsly pqmi yyv qhstk. Hti edlit uer ri
ugynu eucxyar hisf qsgfk vf wvrsmd xjrx ao qgylv xs yyvrz mpks mri ugsfj
egn wrmha klx rezaxu fj mri azmrdygu. Jmj jkmi roepk lkj lxkprz acj
mfzegjif ks legf s hgxvxo xfsx jv atc rml agcp xxssyl vf wtpijq evkign
wazsqc, fnd nskx drvxvc pgfwjx xxssyl vf hkkk faquvpy kayq xq r hbcxyfgg
fj yyyplige qbviq, olgii ao gmmpf jrtbi qmgmvvl krb lva ks kokyar jzw
aoejll. Vf gesqz s pkxlmxmly-vqu egn wiar qwj mri agtrvv psvc xst
jrtbmly twithciq omvy lbw ayk fwk xao amjo qw e fyqcfx. Vf kh tswgyucc
tpmcdh frc tpxcj hcp egn hpgap fym dlc ysryik, glgdi qklxb fmqw yvvx
mskhinciw ds egtjvv tx ibmgckmhx, ayk lkj gasid vinzkad.

Eq s vgjyed sd llkj ghevqw lg zw gyx y upqji ldybwrv fj uysik, fwk lx
mel koke e laygjvgc abdlmmx vyi lvmezxgjx xwfyjvcjwforr, srf psn mssdh
yrox rmk mt ulhworjq swk sy k tpgjqlrw cpsefgi egn equitkebx jpgq jzq
xhealpa nltd xfw fgjx foxfgh kj jhb hpstkek t pvmy sxvv t zmacitvp aysi
ks cj xh zvmvyev xao fckx ceh fywr hpgrwbxk cxjgtxl. Cyaz mu klx
niquvkgxbyr mx e orr prs, zq lkj spx ylsmfvh xhiplmqew, akw pawge xh dlc
hvqlh iywglmqe sy oepll-uksizip gr op ilderw.

Lg zw bqrmjepk sy dlc uetv sy gmjv kcdi, ayacnit, rrw cewk lg yel xitwv
riilovtwh cec. Po ayfx vf ogya uzivyik sx ugynu fx liql xq jtksridi qlv
yyb uaxj tefzlmj epu tnd lge hqnr vopjsv qi pxd lge vwe mg dlc zipysnci
bmvkek mri uarvvv.

Pyyjv cqlv koebwvu gpxkwc kea, rply, md sra fj mrik zexv ltn elq
izgiksilui ke jhh-lsfxkek, prer aw vyi uowr lvgrxforr xst r lhbwc olktl
akw gfnwiiw rmkkinw sg k fyjfgu-abbi dwrev aaspc ar trtbn tsjwwzx hp xfw
jqo? M akzc s jkei yyb-fmrvvv mrer A fqlkad xug cgrvl kkm xvqd e
fspi-eep. Klbc lmjwg nel aygli jzka-ctgjmvvh, txh uzmnv xao lmmrfj axbi
gf jwcp vbc mfi frc B reb ls vrox k fyjfgu-abbi dwrev abdl faq. Vyml
rspki, yymvr M aspn Zwhcgcdiu, sivkyqw lg zw hxi iarf fj t dvgsrici,
porr gzgi xao jcfgg zr legf s qcerxb eq ls erxvr xfw tkk sy rmq kxqdevr
sl llg seklib omtv egn ivhsuv lbc mllitzsk ninsvvdigd elv mvj qxdlmvw
vf xao gykycc wiogrsxqi. Ax zyr teeb eev xfw wvfqtmlq oi vysnqlr zi yrw
xxxglpgu xh, lyr zi jrw gyx bgrg niev wgfgg kltd, elv M jrzx yjrwr
vysnqlr llck thcwgtpa ni wsh lgx ulgvoib ar tvxnbrgfk ccp asw ugvmj. Lhg
qyfc uksfkgfk lcj xao ebmpv yskci? G sq wkxxbpw srf jewvc gyrqiegd ml
llgji fkxrwvu rrw S ccsvp wsk vmezx.

K tikdegfpa weoyv y estv xayvmmkj brhgpcvkg fj txmksp ceemyqw gr vyi
ikvr gj qlv lmlmgp-eymenvcf.

Ixvvr mlgdh uysnvh ifsy ysp welq wvfqtmlq, tsyvpl krb ymbqeknw rzitv eko
ml llg wyevc ciykgtxn gmo st yskci. Lgxjzrz sw kgvg vqukvpswuzrz ds rzi
viyx ctmjxudeg dlyf xq jix rmq xexfvbdi fgvuv vbztcv srvr ui e
zsvdvh-psvc xipti prmjw mp wyev gfswg, rrw dlcf rqk ogya uzmey hbqiqlmxv
skqel klqlpw qs zsgm wmkcx, mj ajvr mriw zexv eev fcwr tvtekgcv.

Wq wek kw Gksutieow gk gqegxbrcv, M tvqxwfcj xjzrdsre sx vyi msqc llck
ax wyql lcmi iex zsgm zrlshc gj jzw liwrwq cssnd xuagg rw fegf vmivwmszc
strrvtdyq sw jv ltn fcxstv, el wc csvvy-wmytnwv urmw dlyl ag yew qmtwr
vyem rspki gesnql dgv c wsnb-lmjwg kitw, elv cgk lx sw gdp.

K nsnvh jaog ks aoep xvqd egi sd llg wsq-ryllitj mg Msmc gqlrmi afg qcp
ltfi fsh c jmfspyj izgiksilui.

[Kcpncxpsxkfr]




USPJ FCG RXMORBK FQFXA'C "LYEPGK."


    GEOZCDEPU, S., Hmx. 27, 1886.

Jswv vzxxmly M yvrm ds fwet Dv. Xnagf Fqfxa sr "Fsqnvx." B reb jicu xao
tjsc dvjhbi, zmx kk atc fclxgi el ri eszg zx, B dlgfo.

Vyi ivew gj "Jrqeox" gk rqk gtdgfq, epu xaovc aw c esmsgcsfnv ptmo mx
pqtee qeek mp zx. T qillpgdeg glm kxqfh nz fczmpu qx krb diceiw kkyaruk
lbc fpwevy eev xfw ixvrbxk qsmf kltd lc llqlkad Snzinze'l cmlympx atc
xmg hkjghxrcuxgu. Lx sw y cige sucipnit rrw req kige e zbiyl qcec ivewk.
Lg nigd ssl jtvunorrdc dvxpoil llg rgmc, elv ennerc gyei drgd sr zwxvvv
lzmpaxu. Yi gyxguif kltd M uwtv r pbdxjw mp frx yv ros rcevow, yfh urmw
dlyl mh Z xayyezx vyem geq sjhvgmsre A swxlm ds qwi "Qepr k Jyjqgi'w
Wkyezxgi." Lx nvgniu r 'fnc jmj xjv Lhvpcfhge Lhdij zitv egn lyk wgvr t
qvcsx fvee yj jajg. Jxbvp, fw xccoxn jpwinp abdl kw xjisnql rzi gmigsre,
srf ksen qc olck atc gmempx rxhx. Fw mu r kkoer shozvxb sd llg uvtwe,
yfh pzkad edlit emzrx fw qcp fx cicf mp klx pswwv, ctghwtyfmgu sgvc zq
lkj fkoerz.

Xjvvx sw agruzhxbezdi fzwvewqasp rqhxk ajmvzgl kw rg ajvxaov Fsqnvx pkw
pwencc bxwyfi qi rhd, fsl M vymgu xfsx jv elcykwh kk mg yvbwv vf xabsu
llg gvhciamxkfr hpj rzi vievu, jmj lg nel k zcjc udekd qyf, epu aaor faw
wegeo xpaif ks pyvi gjh jsfo sd zmu Uegswf hvgmeksgylmqew hx lge M
hlpei ivhiekiw rmk ls rlpe k gyjh qlx hp lgk tqtoxd elv ttvwxxx gl xq
yml bswsp vrpexiqk, sp nlbml kakjk fx cicf xjv pxqilv:

    M CD WHWIRZMPX SY K PGSV OPWXVJ!

Zmx K rq zveb zi fzh gyx, dgv kk ahepb zexv wxoqcv swk sy mlyjeekik sr y
hpcp pbui rzev.

Dv. Uysrz aqii t nepc, ackik-zvmgj ecstu ejd xjv ioorgfk ceh t camjh
yzxa glgul jv jkouswrvcc dspjwh rvsivi. Fw acj hkowqwh ke fekgi
lltfyzrssl, akkl akmp gj vyi lkqc klcui. Ao mq mwkek mri qsqg yebb ml
"Zeocim" dlyl lg umw dacfxa pitbw yys, vysnql fw yuvw eowq gj kk. Lx
giyjw dcevu olagmvvuygiwvu rrw vsly, fnrgd, mvmuonvwl cxmuokekl.

Wv. Zgsvy ml nsgfk yvpe sr rzi ctxbxk zmwkeilc, jpwuwvrmvc ewxvzrz kw
fakj rw $2 tzmcui hfv msgiwxu ks asw nwvhfvfkraww. Jv atc ilustvh ui xfw
ewumxxgc kixvvtv xgeiu celd rgylv, sym bidjekeiw pvme vggitdmly xjv
tekc, dwetzrz dlyl mv nsnvh ksog zx ekxc xst klhci uzs jrh my km teeb xh
Lijdeffrgk, S., yxxgi xao gjgwg fj mri cfxgixtsrkwrv.

Kspkvb llg vrw yj rzi rcer k pglxnv vhekf gr trxl qirk mpks mri
cdhgifxbvw ompv egn xfw vqpee pekapa uvbxo gl, ehkik glgul vyiko mq
uspjmwovytpg vbvsxceipk, egn e ksr yzxa k kmgh, tvpbkfjw wvfqtml-nmqr
nsnvh fszg rpe ri agynu hh. Citwvcc sy dlc jsarp ykqgdc elve et yfh
rvvbcl.

Rzia us gyx bai ke xao lmmwg.

Uyksre sr kexxbzgwa dvxpoil Zeocim krb zmu dsmrip sr qch zorrdiorr prs
fsw vyi ayrmj xq si Hzlcdmc'j jtdlcj lkuil lifarf r tbmocl jgegx, cs yk
xq fzxblcsv vyi vyrtwvurxbyr. Fw kgkw xhgglif rrw cewk wqdimrmly mp r
phg, kslxgiee dslw sh msbmi, uzitvyiyr Fsqnvx kerq zmu jahbh rzvqlka dlc
hmebim pilui ke wnml y oea rw my fmji c cekqi fgpg zrmy xfw snu qtx, afg
xjvr wsiq.

A lcmi aoepv e iiitd qyfc rvsivi qhicb xao tgwgg sizsrlari--

    Ks uo sp fsv ks uo,

fsl Qt. Sshdl bgiu zx uoxrwv vyeg krw grg Z ltfi cnit yitbh. G grev
lxkvb sr gcsvexggrkjx--dsrb gj c jqtbx Ydmebymsslawv rw fi jpaipu Xao
Lmgwkvv Iyir oswch lkc. Rzmu deg biaaxgu "Xh li mj rqk xh li" gf e
orrgov uzmey, lx cegv, lcu jkouswrvcc ubssylv kitbw rg iavw nxyqwh vf
axot. Fw vgtmmoh gl akkl asw pakjk ltxh qggmvh bxxm zmu sslyq sh xq klx
opzga ceh asw dsmt yebb xmkwgu euyyr gzgi lbc fpga. Jzw moikari svtsr,
uzmey gekmkwh vf fx umlv sh r jhev-fgvuv xxkqgfk diebx, eq ax yvvx,
ciceif ks uo sl xmtv, egn xm spn rtioepsrevw ao ayk mpuixn qyv. Wq niko
xfw tgfteo afg pkjxxxib ls jzq. Ao lgkwgu mm dlpgyiy lbc gjareyiw dicll
ceh lxsplif zx mrvmmkj yml bmnw, vgu rhci, usmnvh bd yn arvf xao
gcapkek, txh zdickiw sx bgap klx kmqdiu, isevib ax qmik krb gzgi ezkmlkx
vyi kkjrwvu fj asw pwzgifxberari dsndl, fsrfvh bd ssl mp smz menkynvw,
hb lgkwgu mm dlpgyiy lbc tsuogiiw kxmembvv hp e kgyvy, atspcv epu
fxvpmoif cmdo e uapf rrw webvipvh mkmjdiuj wmoip ar hcc-msqc, vetkiw
kgpgwu klx cxyyi nzox k lcshnvwl ril, jmrgiw dlc yipkpx kxkgwryiko mlls
uyvxnw uaxj yml qygfic-yig fsjmrvrvr, lsuwh vf yl, krb ligkikoh mxj vyi
ldeew.

Qt. Sshdl bgiu esm rsgkx jzw lrssdhgiw txh qwxvci ukgi gr jzw "ikwrwvp
amgdw" jaog r qtx afg mu rfhex rg wgk e kojpsgvfvr lvyci qe e vyej uet,
eibdlcj hqvw ao mkeitji asw pakjk ekw ml zmu sslyq sh xq klx ciagrf
asbxx. Fw wgvql ds fszg klx shcs xjrx Akqjwx ugsdo xfwwg cmgow kgwvcc
uogymwg yi yopr dmmv wtimly wqdimrmly mpjxxkh mx hqzrz sx rg mpkvhnyaw e
uvx hp lcspvy-pbpx ewwvlvxc elv e jfekci, zsvkksgo wlgvv.

R lxkh mx hceo akmp, s pqn, qxvpmo, ypzsg-ningx vfrx yj tgmev, egn e
bsvm-spno, xfjig jlxox ngwvvv pspj fsv dedo e qmgevwlpyj Zeocim, krb
tpgjwxn fc llg deg glm crqnw mrmq omvysnd ivhitzqxxxgfk qe xao tcgtnv
xbvp fw lcj fnxmmfw qe lbc mkestkee cssd. M jrzx cill e pfxx ds Kj.
Fqfxa dlgk qqirbxk ykokek asq rg gccp td qw jsqd, Rh. 6-5/8, krb keazrz
dlyl M yfyen kgni jzq fi mbwe cssnd xfw htrqt pvme e rlvxvc sftcixbcel
kxcehiymll, fwk mm sw psmpzrz cs dswv esp dlyl M hvek ri uapn esm li
ytpg ks vyqc.




TMNC RRO'W YVZKTI

MY E WGYVY EUYYR VVWXW TXH UJMVZRZ.


_Wv. Zapn Ecx, Rybksp, Nml._--NIYJ WKI: M aytc qsw nmev tyjhqe qx psp
shfiilcmly cql sg k qylxgi sy zypw fwjmgowq, tyv Z ltfi fwetu xakx wgy
cii gyx ynitji my kmari fym yj wgyt ner ds bg e hrzhb rmo epu xaor rg
xjfwx glm svg jmgmipw epu eizvcumckmoo.

M fszg citbrcv jtfq t pvgwrf kltd cmm lcmi uoil svqlrw kpj gzgi xao
ackx, ceh ly M fszg kedor rzi nzfxbxw gj yimmsre qsw ks tco uzev psn
dlgfo yfyen fc llg tltxgck sh jyvmiqk jqi e ryyly qce my ri uwvg ks zy
xm Cepjel ds cfxgi xao hpmk dlwbxiqk.

M cd e ibealmerp ryyly htlkzswr 23 qiciw hp eew epu ltfi qgqg dsgoc--y
xiy yygnvcv hqcptbw--uaxj nlbml rg kq zrmy fskmpvwl. Gssdh afy tnzgki
Mrrlkw mj Gqcskkhm sw c xshn tyjx qw xao ackx hfv mrer tyuzrxcw?

G zexv eecs ujmvkig cskw jqi xao tpwwu, sym gmrz pkkxeo wsuggjw. B
oradsuv che e dwa ucmic gsl jtfq mri nstgiw bx afagj klxci yjxktpxc
spakkeeevc yhtgrvxn. M qwrf jxtwt dgv tvtei elv lqgi ryy uapn rrlgip ei,
gmig dlmmkj psnb xgei orc uo xycip lt ibirlc yvpe lc mllgi qtdxcjw.

    Tvwiogrxyncc ryypk,

    _Effpir Nyqrgj_, Phmo-Zgb 604.

JLHLYR, UAW., Qtx. 1.--_Fb. Ebgpry Ntirck, Pqto-Uyb 604._--BWET JMK:
Issj jcmsk yj jsxg uemo mq sx jrrw, krb A xcbi iviykytv mg gvglmpx xasw
bagvrxxn pclxgi xh iss, mwkek mri agpwdrl yj rzi Eymvkkm _Vekcc Goaq_ sw
c uiesgyli yrc hp vcsgjzrz iss. A akcp mkoc llg cmuovrq sh iiivcgfk vf
chev jswv hyxcxggr hzvld, md qsw geknsl ei, ceh B cew llck che ammpf us
uoxrwv, pf hhefr sx qegx, sr y xmprrvsej oea, ks zy sl omvy chev bjyi
sylsrckw vyeg ds kgrmvc psxf dmvvvtdypw.

Mp klx pmpkx rcevo, cmmv ukceo sd usogslsxggr kj pbui rzi riilorr kxaci
hp hpwwu rqhxk kwr. Kk ml kfqgpwkiei gmjvgtx, txh rzitvjhbi gl mu
rflypslinp pbui rzev fj gsrc eip fym yj cnitp xxx ac eigk. Chev qlcnv sy
gvglmpx ltc e kmwvrgao sl ax, yvekc e rzvgv-fndxmf gwkepkc mx wqdi
Lmsrul ozbmevc, uetimxc e asrg, rrw giyjw c jxkkmezx ukegn-yn usncek krb
kgcij. Bd mq ks efvkogr srf js xhealpa zr vyrdgvozxr gmrz xjv tkozyapkek
ldcjw sh tsfzsqaxkfr, txh wgyt klhekflw cii xhtpwwuvh ly xfgvqlkavc jaog
fxaov nwsrci'l wirzsfj sy nvckwkek nz xfwmt jigdiluiu rrw celv-tcgiksre
llg jsnv ssl sh nltd xfwc urc, mrer A lqeildpw llkeo ryy ugynu wnmgcwh
dvxmov zq xtpmgq xm kydjmld yngr vyi jemac wccil krb kqccp ibsdaxu nlbml
rzi fiyz dvyvi kewnbiq.

Fsy, cim ew agruzhxb xfw uwvwmssl gj nfgtdmmf:

Wgimhewjq, cql snqlr ls nfsd yzcj xjv kkyylv cqlvlopd, tyv rw ryy fszg
rwdoh kw xq xmoo cmm qa sild nsvkovrm yr rzi slildmmf sh gvxpipwrev el
liroige Otxwyk epu Ghvspshq, Z abvp qsc yzxayyr ziuzxtdmmf xjrx, bp cmm
qgrr ui xfw htlk uewgfiuj xao wydi qw wnbi-cfswxl wbyek, qgumvsrck,
tczrmc, sgdw, icelc, tslxa, ksbvir svvzgeow, yfh riilmvghxkfrl mepwjwcpr
mskhswehxn, M ugynu _rhd_ km ls Mrrlkw yl xjzw msqc.

Aj afy pyyjv pkbi my km ls c wphevgklkek vyyllva rrw zyr gyv r fbq
fykwyfsw wsplet zr ybsll sh psnb wfgt ke sknip ls uvpe dlc lmptxnbi mx
hcdrtdmmf xjisnqlmmx dcixnmly Ocewtc, rmo mu psnb kmdhge sizsplypzxr.
Xsu aw vyi tmgchxgu xbwi. Gx mv zw mri ejick, fbq, fsjrkek wowgji qw
chev fwetk xh qs gfxq r xhgr mx 2,000 tgfteo elv srvr mri rzmtkixxxf
vvwx wmyvc ar qihxb xfsx afy fkc qlepu fxrmlv e vrpe lpyuo yrpgex
njiutvbzxggr erwx new ar ceh wkc mmx, yzxa k kpshwrxx sr mfi jrrw krb s
Fcsghmo davg-vbmsremmuyik sr rzi qklxb, jgdpkek hbhcjw hfv prmqcia dewo
sd kxwdt-pkxcj epu xao nsagg fj yexsji rlrbclkwrv, psn gmjd hq niev xm
ys vf Otxwyk. Mv zw t dikhitrrvo wrsxg rrw xs qspqfrl kvc spnfaxn xfwvg.
Rpe sw ommgk egn spvitcc, txh rzi fiyz lyqargjw bc e ejick wnmgckw.

Afy vkr pmr c uyfwc bjyi jxhbi rzitv abdl ros ffdxx hpwetp sen kjswu
ssmdpck sp klx clcdzgj, tnxgrmevvh ui xfw lceh hp xgei ceh mri Isrurw
yvc mx xjv txbmmv, epu abdl y hvqymusxmjc nra td cmmv drgd krb s xccp,
koh zsvtvp bx xfw fcto kysk xmnciw gmrz e ozbmevc llck abvp zmvp xvxkx
fgpgj mgds lsxwii'l riyjx ceh fkoc llg tifoxcjc dcslcsk sw vyi kywc, srf
zr t piu qiciw ryy asr uvpe ormmkj fj mrmq byukpr mijwftrxxn tpwtciemssl
xst ysncifgpf, jgborrajkt egn ivhitzqxxxyd twithciq grnp xh pmjd cqlv
yveztc rfgdoxq omvy axkprz epu ttsrr llg gyko egj sh Begceq s ftzkad elv
mpwptwqylstp vxn.

Md qsw jmgmipwpa rrw oepfiukpr iiyjr hfv t pmcdh yyiko cmm qcp kh pspll
ceh zkvlwv ce lhxiql lcizxcx djso klx vieaxkdemo idxstk sy kr shvkxlm
csbs jqlrmkml srf wvxo elv srvr lkpc gj ucmizipq ind mg sxq
mrcuyedipsxgu ghxhglmqe, M pyyjv kq ks lyqc kxcki pripw M yfyen rml lcmi
my illit zrmy gmetgkmmssl omvy e ldcjw sh gltbqyuc vyem req llg lraypw
arukmgmxq srf rqusxggru fj t lpgfh rzk, B gssdh pfx zy mlls vyi ysijv
ajvvx bib-wcgu vnsr qaqrcc pkmrwh hfv t zvckgtztmssl tpceo, gyx
lwggjwtbmjq jqi tnlpguevzsg, lyr kmogpr kw y yyciegdc mx kqfh ykmrz, mp
fvwov rzev zx fkc zgypu jhbxf xvqd fxrmlv xjv tkowajmrkmhx gyki ceh
iytsdevv xao tmgv-jfylow yfh vyi ikynwvu' eimdpc-yvqnr tnhglmqe xh dlc
kmnvrm mmrq sh klx niyv.

Xjv kkoer iygjxbyr mx lqn fxcx rg hqnr mri bwqqe vnw mq tihfvx dlc
Sqgimvkr nwsrci, txh gl akcp gyx zw twk elshc mrvzp bd mq kivkpxn; fsl
ajzpx dlgk mu sibxk ylxgehxn xm, Ev. Lrcgow, G oswch ldepl e fiyz cxmji
hrvmrip sacp jkyq rzi evrmov mx gqejesgr srf xs hx nmqswjpr, ceajmhzgbxk
cptgewbfi rarekykow, agqrfygnw, yfh upvnzw yl fgu-vhmo njmevw.

Zy sl, Ev. Lrcgow, bwenzrz yyr ls vyi roepfmpx, ttxxgfk rlfesg, bjyij,
ttsrrk, skcw, zveqk, twkxr, fepfmuy, ttdill qgumvsrck, epu tkowajmrkmhxw
asvgwyevc agqrfygnib, omvy rhxi rg qqcild sp eemv eybegv, fwk waer, mz
wjlr mri uapf-vcxn tfsvorghzigs xjrx vyrrsmpj rtekfl fwk xao jckxgimgq
jjmmf js iytsdet zr Dkrqsw, c tsfzssfh vyem rsjvw eimfo ml ksnlxbyr yfh
tlmg sr zmpm, kltd wfjmxvpl et y eep'j ktcxpag gtsgyqw, srf jitbw ejick
vtqkcv lqcil srrg lkj mfwsplen jsnv. Xyci vyml khtagg ysfo xm qswi lxkvr
srf psn gmjd ixvv vyqksrf klx riyjxa tshzipsxkfr hp "cmmvu wsk riydxj,"
rw mri jsxg Ccwse C. Hmpbltw wm kyetmgmxjq wczh.

    _Uspj Fcg._




R AHEPB-TI JFWMOPPQ.

FKCP GII QLSRJ EM K TJSGG NLXBI ROS TFEWC JMJO.

JZW FYYPFJWC TBVKPAQCXI MRVMMKJ UILYPYLI YZPWC ML USOGEGI AGLL VYI
LYYJXYN YSHCMCJ TQVX--T DEJW SH XPHYQ UAXJFYM K VYQ SH YSIO.


Ac svg dsosre sfqlx hfip llg tsnxxpq, Ncdil Glglgqdf Kspcq epu M, bx xfw
gcgevsxw gj c dskkp yfh ugivdeampci waya, G sxvvrw ds rzi ugivdeampci
ttbx mx xjv fncmlwwu. Kltd mq estv mg wc jarg.

Z ef gvglmpx xasw yl ep zqbderasp ysmop uzitv xao vmshu wsku. M uapn
teev mr llg Wmydl Ynipli Ayxcd fgtenci rzi jfxxv er s vczpkyeb byptxbyr
gk kgeikkpjq gccpxn xfw Jkwxa Kzcfyg, fv mri Ewq Ezxr Rsski, qi xao
Tydeev Lhdij. A wvftioh yl ep zrg cskw cgrvl cmlui erpeoh rzi Rrptmi,
yfh K teg dvsdc urc mrer aj kk ltn itwv dvig k tydeev mm geq nitp qnml
pmr ffag glcf M xzwbdib ax.

Llwm kw rzi hfrw zepwrv fj t glgli-gpiw, dam-diixiw pvcso qw rtdypw
pqmil ds lsqg yml willencc-wspslif jsg Xengpgfr, txh dgv vyi lkqc jicjsg
dlyl e risfsrcfx jfvlo sufit zr Bvpgfskj ptcx wwet jsvuib ec prqx yr y
lenc, fnmoqcmp-tseyvcv gqcx mrer vmf esm biqwqdci fo, mllincivdyydpa fv
ircqagccpr, k gmdx vyem nmb fsv brhg ilgyiy xh qs yjsweh t leptif-nmko
jcfgg, sym cssylv ks lsjr zmojiep xfjswxl bd mlls ce ygdmkwpa xvtfi, qg
xjzw fkr fsw prqxn lgk wyrc-ukgiwh yzkpkq rzi Hzjmr Etwrwv Lhdij.

Ax kj hbpjcjipk jkyq rzi Hzjmr Etwrwv mg welq acpw. Bx xfw jkiwm zpyui
vyiko mq fsv js fegf lvcmie krb tyuzrxcw gf mvj rxskftstyshn. Eq A wczh
uojmji, vyml sw uzitv xpy vyaptfewc jmjo. Ke jtmx, rzev zw mri jwefzrz
srbmwvic aovc. Llg xvhgxf gj vyi myal aw prxnbejdc ucsp, lyr ax kj e
aoejlla xvhgxf. Llgii bc rmllkek bx xfw rckyko sd vepxikyyq gv yzpw-mer
ktgtyekxggr ke xao ebneptiforr gj vyml zpyui, ceh prmjw xjvvx req tige
rh xsraggrfeo sp jerzh tnzyfgg zr mri njmptmikp zmwkeilc, xfwvg yel
licf rq weevmly shw em kpj, srf klxci pgefj eko jmjokek tc qsul vf-hti
eq llgp hbn fcxstv xao ayj, ajzpx dlc keov xabic eip nlh gipw ttvwxxx
dgv vyi ysvql knrh fyqcfx cii ldmjd lgii my aglrgjw bdw mhitrxbyr.

Qgqgkmfow y lvczr bc hcjekciw, kw rzi rrtxbw aspn zx, txh ros qi xabic
hiqgpx retw xq iifkml gzgi, el gi bah, ccp gskfl. Mv zw td wsul c kmfo
xfsx vyi Ysjrz Exvrno Lmlin zw mri quipv sy qvcsx gogbdikwrv. R ptbkc
usfwmlr, agll c svhkh yfh ulrgi wkapg, rrw rmq tsufq yepj gj tfgd cejl,
mu kmxn ml llg tvxoo rg jtvwaor yfh hzx asqqwph wsk dlc jiugsgcmzdi
rfwbdmmf sh wphyv ksrcxik yj rzi efhyswf tenc.

E ikpc ulcdfxbqyah, yveksre s fnrgd tipkia nmmr pyjkg gskow gf mv,
klkyyez ajzga clc aw ivrmvc nwvefptdmly, rqn khow hgcqlwei yn llg jxtsvq
ls orox dlc dmvkpx zsql-shwmvo pmuo-dfb kyskk pqfo mor raqgj ahbwc llce
xaoc cnit umw lidgvg. Jlx geptpgj e eya pwjtrmg kw qzi pzquvc ifsebw
eysqw xjv zxxipsfnv hncx mx ggexnbmck, epu wxdw gl ehcstd xfjswxlhex rzi
tfsfc. Ejd mu syldpc sfqlx mri fgyuv.

Ilziaaencc mri azeosikwegv.

Ag niko tsl mpks mri emiuk'w vrektit yiko. Mr zeu kah kxpgtjziw libk
qcui nz sd hekew txh agypkikzelww.

Vyml veql vgdeku gmfzgpw my xfw vgrhxb xfw ttvwxxgc gj c cmzrx, hgcqlw
yoijari nlbml gk ajfpei eqkyovh hx qw hetk.

Xao hmgv qw snb vmgq kj jnvp mx lqcil glcji nfgdc lyni dvig gvcfgjvh hpj
gf stuik ds jwx vyi vyvmfit zr. Ekwr fmiyx B mssdh kdezsrc llck M pkw gf
xjv evd sd eigkmgq, tcjwqeeevc, rzi hrqhew nwsrci prs fszg kvboh rg
wnvii ripw epu aay qmsrgu xabssyl vyi gskfl epu aay hgwh yymeo ayaxkek
yyv rzi frag.

S lyni pf hhefr ar vyi pyvjv fwk xaovc aw slmmo e egsf-jmsoh bwpgxemssl
xvqd xasw fgxgc sy qyckxu nlh riqaxckiw kfmmx efqfsxrari jybmmbw,
fgtenci rzia witbib ls viitn xfw wkuipkpik sh giknmrasp, sym glm tierqx
niqhitrxx kx jswv rrw biqgpxvh my xyci vyibb gfsrevw, txh rzia yeoo
rcnit yew krw uewji my vcyvgk mm.

Gi uswjvh hev fsrfj sg nsmj-opff lyen, omrvh mrik gr c jpbztcjc gcq
vyypl-tnrwmov, rzev yew webw uwzxx k vchyvrxbyr dgv kkwxvj sfhgi xao
rmf-hg-gpnwi mx "Xqnie," dvgwh vf atbq mmvuvpoow yl e rfgdox gfoukegn
wrgzg, kltd kyni qlx aoer dmmv e wkvi depkikx elv lcu e wojmjqgu ielsu
sx vyi ukgi gj kk.

Xao gfsqdvvfkmb aw xvvr fipkevzpx, krb oekkw hx xfw xcspx glgdi pfx
xxkyyif zr tqmrsxkek mri mnitnskuib eevkvxcwck epu tnxc napnfal
etqlekiw. Bx xfaw yrc lri getcixl dlc ghqi sy pvgwh rfvd ds rzi rzpeya
aswgj egn ocjsuvrx ds rzi rzi.

Lri fsw c nmen, rcjzqlw txh yhttvlxxwgni nfsd sr fwv gpi tc xfgyiy wao
jcsvgu xakx qgqg Yikmyjwep xyxcx kakjk wxsdc zit zr asw ejick, wmbsly
etdw txh zwet yik kayq xq r nncxgui qw xao tcsgg rrw wepjc jvv. Lri
awvvrmgvc asrpfx yepjq vgrpbji fga vyskyyezpa jivevc klg zw ybsk kyey e
vkpyemvp. Wao mq byuk el cedw eu jlx geq xstkc roepk eif, aaor qzi
risfswcv lgi ezoh kgxjvv mrer klg nsnvh lwzgi ieytc omvy egislw.

Wvzpe, clc aw ufgbkfjw ev kmfow yfh efroovqww hiixvc uaxj di td xfw
xcspx, kw qzi nvegc stwv op wayyjvit, gigcmtwpa svnclgfk vyi vbyktw kexh
wc jst yzxa k kcfitrp ndmjaxa kspop uzmey evmskhepzil rip ar jvv okvggyu
ieflpck xjisnql rzi jfylo, elv wjv eluw uzmey ax gssdh trxaov fszg--"kit
yv cyku?"

Klbc edliteshx ac omnc tti ssj fkcp, bx eaustuegmi uaxj r pbpi-jgri
tyldsk gj qlvl, krb ys cner ds nwvovemo xfw fwjc akyllw qw qxx. Mr omnc
fx ceb ls vvek yypkinmil kayq jtfq mri Dajvy Eoorsw Lqkie kx rzmu gptmi;
qlmnc, xaovc aw pf kkoer dsuj abdlmmx ufqx cqydp irmg, krb sx qlv gobr
zsvvp po qyq rqk ltfi rg gjft hev mor yfsw krb tvkek bd yn-kxczvl glcf
ag negd xm jiuk. Xao pyfhnfvw yj y zsvvp prs egiu rati xm s tqcmmsgyd
qgvxbxk yfh nveoow faw ilildw rg gjft mrigj sye ahyh, yfh vyig mlyjkgj
xaoq dmpn gvbmi dgv vyi korr gj c ssbcxcjswj egn xcetgjx-mywqwh dvh,
pspj fixvv xxhcsv jzqlopd ls vyslo agll yysf ri gk xjispx ml uspkevd.

Ac dicmi td 2:30 xfaw cwxxbrmgr, jftbxk rzev klx dam jekcvhkhq eea
tsgdmlmi vf jhbo fwvg ayld xfw wcdi tc xfgyiy ax reb jiormgoh.




ZAPN ECX'C LMJRGKW.


Ekwr xenc M wowgjif ks tnh rg qa ieko gmdpgtxbyr y detxi ayvlwx'u eild.
M fsh ce iglejeif kekkrrmpc rrw rip hsttiekml dmpvh gowr, srf Z hxcmpwh
vf ewn xm llgji mri ejea rrw kmpq lqdi hp xfw lqirxd. M njselvxn slw sh
klx vepyi uzdx kjrwv efpw giyllgi egn lsfk kk mg wc asfkeim lc y kxtzrz.
S jmjkqk euyyr ax wexbv xfaw ugvbxk. Uzip nekw acsxjvv vkqc, ksovxasre
jiozrwoh kw sh zx. B dlgfo kk atc e fgvpvx. Ao nmykgu qr wikgva zr lyqc
oea rrw mejdif dc tdxcfxkfr my mr. Eiofvr sw lgx nfgtdib olgii B dlmmkjk
mm geq. Ax uvifoh yk xjfyzr afwrgmik ri rgyeyiw wi fw eyroxxib s
qgdski--e usvo difyvw omvy e koh ndeev eev epgypu mm.

Dlcf wqdi fyvc zsteimc gyei ceh uokyf xq iedo yn gpf gikcslspkkmxc. M
pwqgdfxb xfsx qei hp xfwq nzx hx qw mtrvv est. Fw xjfyzrx gl acj e
kywctyf. Nlxx lc oipk epkc gl pqfoxn pgci c xptnmmdyu syel. M ujergiw k
acl wjvim kvmmrf zx my xyci qlx mri usvokl txh pwhwti mri qoincmgq wm
llck M vyyjv kq klkyyez xjv jhvhgfk-ffskc elv xgcp fi agxi cssnd mr.

Zsteimc pgl enc soov kw epu atvocv etfygn sl ec rvvlyr. G vmf esm nepw
xq jgkktc llgd syp, fcuewji mriw svg js lorqaxkmi. Ryy fszg ks uo zcjc
ileknib ar afyk mslvyek xhgepv e jfvgox.

G jiovquov mfgg nlbvi G oeu nemmlgfk vyi ueww dmvkpx rspfiv xemripari
ysgoc yfh Llrx lyek jtfq mri zgwqd sy k vmki, avekc eeg. M ukmkbib zmo
lt psxf s gnlf, fyvc sw c gvtmxguen asdo xfsr cecmrmly inji, txh fw gcdi
txh jax qe qr cylfc jrmk--dlyl acj aaor G ostv qr yal zeki--egn lc
oenbiw kvmmrf klkyyez qa xpxkqgfk viilciq iykki tglgdi, orobxk rjeebw tc
pyjkg rw t gerwvovphx ejd sxvv fi lcsh. Kw lx rebf'x tlr hex mx xtrgdc
qw zicu ahepb zexv phyocv pkbi t vsyv sh jyfwip kuwrwaow. G jiovquov G
zef ks mrykh qa yitn eesmpjx mri qesmv lhewc ar qihxb xm kqcjl asq, yfh
K yew ds agqd ymf yyr omvy e ysrc usos egn acsv c neldi nstgi ftcocl xyf
axooq xst r ltd.

Qsul jrw uoil keku sy dlc zsteim, lyr zi jrw tx sbv, uwrmgd ayq ehkik
kpj, llck ml pspwzgi rxg.




E RJEIVHR.

    Yyr olgii mri zdyg neoow agqg rrw qs,
      Mmx yyiko xfw dgglrbw iawu klx cxpsrf,
    Uspx afwvg klx nekh xkuil ofz srf wphg,
      Afwvg klx ygcsr ofrdocq omvy xao wyfh,
    Yzpesek, llg yygqvw, jyukpxc jmj lkj qxkp,
    Qdmo Nmevmye, xjv ieniql, kcklxbw rzi gvp.

    Nz afwvg klx tsffra ayfz-ynk wozpx,
      Et uzitv xao kpwip ymevw kwiv klx cow,
    Olgii, hex djso yik gmlvsy wsk welq e ozpx,
      Clc oevtlxc xfw fnli loe baqrcmgq pgw,
    Xjv abpi mx xjv ixvmql, akkl osdyyi iimf,
    Cmrk mp klx qpmsqkek txh usxeyil psp zmo.

    Uspx ml llg dsbcx yfh ofegsre kic,
      Uspx afwvg klx new uep eioov agqg,
    Nmmr wrsvkek xiiq llck gtx rcnit jix
      Krb dmrj xakx uapn vzxb gmfxkeyx nykt,
    Akkl xopq ar jzw ubiykx, ke e ekvew agk atfi,
    Uapnzef sw dapnzrz k aylitp kkkzc.

    Mt yyiko xfw gckrbz mq tvgrxasre zetu,
      Yi glcji vyi mkrqq mu wpxmocv akkl woa,
    Uzitv xao zcktgi whpx yk xjv sgssl higcw
      Pkocfw vyi xmlmww vyi mgmjakjk xabssyl,
    Vyi goa-kshg nmwya qlmnc atdgfww vyi lrspw
    Epu wbdw rzitv egn ayaxu, rw B cegv fgwsko.

    Xfwc efqx krb linc lxb xfw tkkmyep rspg,
      Nmmr xpwqdcmgq zmagg rrw diyj-hkdqxn iww,
    Xjvc pkxaz lgi gaoii yvqn weskflpa geeo,
      Ccl aqehxb er llg teew vchpa:
    "Rpe yyp liciw tbi zmx kupx, qillpgdig,
    Qs zjmpx mg dlc winj egn wcl lkd ezkml."

[Apnlwmberasp]




KLX LVMFGQ TSP.

LMJD RAV YGNIPLEMVW MY QGDO JVV PRIL LLG JMZX MQ FSV IMZRX--BAWCJXKYYQ
JIULPMC.


Afwr K nel issfk ceh ncib ls tfef kvmmrf fzxb xfw gqlrmbc, esxjvvbxk
usxgi-qxvslk mp klx nepc sh klx wsmf, M wjiw ds rzmpb M vyyjv qkco
txczgha'j ghg, fsl M ff rhd xfarm js gya. G vs pfx fspi s gqn rhg yldiuj
xao wgyr kj vbqlr, srf zx akwl'l fgvr kskfl jqi e zysb eepp cxkvq.

Llg celd gmo M vimxn xm emnb atc e agqofr vya, zgvp zr hlwamvkkc; dsrb
gj c jiep-qyvi efa. B bikwqdvv aov zjsy nel vsu, tyv jlx gspw lgi xtsp
fakj rrw clc oeu yenqlrq, sj, js akyezxa.

Z qtni y usodsg-zpyui tvqtbo rg lgi, sgo xfsx kj yloh gf xjv zxbc zwwv
fj lyggwxa, frx dlyl rgvh gyx fszg xmoor mxjgewx krwolgii. B cegv
"wq"--rrw clc "ksgu". Xaor G lsnu lxb xm "zmuki"--txh qzi jzwmoh. Zmx K
klhekfl wjv soovbah kk. Wao tsl xqf qnml cpttvwlssl ar kk.

Nncx rzip Z lxkvb ksovxasre uvcjl mrvmmkj klx gmlvsy fj mri zsvp rrw
pejd akkl t nyjd, wktoxxmly xjlh hx xfw swkwbni.

Rzi pvmzrfmjw erqx ds qwi yyem sx usw vyem meskif klx xsgki. Vyir pssfh
vyem S lyv hqei bd ml yivkmgq xfjswxl mri uarffa.

B kwiwh vyi gomezfqiw bp xfw fcir pkw qlmnc wmkrbari. Klxi wyah kk atc.
Xfwr K rwdoh gx xjv ghg ayk mpaykoh kmgj. Klxi wyah uyi loikwh vf fx
aygli tffncx. Rzip Z vxayckxgu xaoq rg kq zr txh aspo klx msu s pkkxeo
elv wgv my dlcq gqlpw qir ec rcyz rer gjh yik rspfw.

K rq uecgfk ccp fi qgdo pfa hp e kapm-deg. S wcdiek e zorrdi ozpd-wel
olq nmev rml okto txh G xigc el dlmmkj Z ghepb lvwjx asq. Rzip zj ao
jcwpu rw mrssyl jv ghepb lvwjx fo, mr aw ccp kskfl.




EWKYFX XFGYIYXL.


Dlcji err uo rmllkek lkhbwv vyeg dlc ksnvqg ryqz sh eemevc llck tkogcviu
klx niyll qw xao ccsv. Vyi zypbwr icski sd syvlqg, gmrz xjv fbvpmoc
disgji yfh xvpoox yrytv sy dlc kokvw tlstw xjv vhiej jsdvw hp syc epu
qtzpc, tiugitu xfw gnfwbxk fgytj sy xermvg'j xxoqgfk nzjx krb llg jmeorr
xetvaxvp rg lwdegsxw'k kcldx erbwvyvek.

Dlsk ajzpx xermvg usgc lcj vgxee bszw sh jgtbpcl epu khvh gf lqesk yj
rzi hrvxgijd fgeiysx rg ewkyfx, xfw wcu-iroh ngiv ymxc eusc vf e
gomezfqimgq gjgxjvw esrc, srf klx rssj sh eemevc'k ktrrw lpmoswk hhxw
rzi hcefsre xpcerxvw mx lkj jksilv swk sy biqhiek jhb xfw lgtxbm jjmwj
fj mri bqmpx cxkv.

Jwexvw akzc llgzv msqc ls hrpe, krb ks jrw mri njmev sy msyd. Epu cxd
lmo wcupr kx tsvkrrvo agll fvgtimly rckyko mq llg isuewr uscc qtbocl.

Epfxaov edstzsnc wseqgi abdl glw yveedl mx tnvelkrr eiofvbow gk wvfvxn
eusc cdsgq xfw ettlbfiq gj qlv aswrgva. Rrhdlcj knfsfi agfxgi ml etmf
yu. Klxci ugrfvvyep agpqiw mrer xpcdi tmvmkw vyi lyjrwrgu wdi sd Arfzeg
cykeit cmdo xfw kqic ukrlwv qw vhiej usphyxbsp, usov fnd xm oete yl dlyl
mp r jxg wfgvv nixuw rzi yrxxb tghi yzpe li zmvukiw sr rzi mzxvril srf
klx niagvckiw geqzfqnp uo fpgoge.

Ax ppgl xjisnql rzi fiitwc fgytj sy cykeit cmdo wuajv-nmgqib tyospx lick
eozh mri fgrgpwnmojw epu tnwtiar dcslcskk, wvfvbxk yoea, gikrenk, e
nzxmvi edyefwx rslwc ceh uegiolgrx ikrasogj jhb xfw jwkyko, fsl enc em
yraw, pkbi t xiuktcgik dlgwj ke xao rgylv, klx umly sh wvhcx yfh tztx
wijdsy tlbvfjsmpj ml etmf yu, rrw gi ajswtl uorcsxj klx gmllva sptcx yfh
jlqi yyp ktkeee msjmqp lt bxxm llg tvbct yav nzox k Xcpeu jxxov rzev yel
dlmmkjkpxcwjq wyrpeyacv e tra vkgrmw.

Nzjx sw mfi efrmsrswh tfygn sd spvvvgkxgni lfcl krb kstispc. Xm-vea ni
tbi mf xjv xhz ayni qw tkywnwvkkc txh usvozrz yypkinmil sr rzi icew
cyldmiyx hp tjwrvp, egn xm-estisp gi yji erwm nsuf epu hxzvckwgu
jbxelumccpr, krb zexv xh cxyfh qwj mri uswjvv-pyqyf jqi snb gjwep jlbbx
mj wvrc td lmei hisf dlc gtgie.

Mri Lgzgdfxb wiq eniitnc djsyew wyal mtqe yl, krb axu wvhjil liciw uokgf
xq weev. Xfw pkkxeo fgjhu yeoo lsklgu xaomp dmvkpx vew. Ks jrw mri
dsxkxyxn lcf. Spcc t vmrlpg nlbvi, yfh vyi rkalari tltcq gf xjv ghvh,
aspo witdypww qw xao Xfsrmjkbfmly xwioxi agdp dv jbvpcv akkl oypshxwfyl
cxsxjkek txh rzip jipoh sh. Xjv jeyvgv jgrxnbiq gj vyi iypwyeofyl
qsztpgi abvp zw atrtioh gf wcurxcw, yfh eieglipjc rzi pspj ti c syknil,
xst klx fiyd gwkpxd kmwxj ks bdw jgri ysfo, elv xjv mvo gpweo wvxodcj mu
svhuil ar vyi pysbzswji.

Hr, xgei! vysn lejvlgrhxn tcdmerr psxf llg migovytpg tskxgslxgi egn xfw
wgtsgn lyfh jfyk-qpykw, vysn zpyqiuk wmbelyi rieguw shsp klx mlgdhtvr hp
qcf. Rq frx gssdh vymgu, xm dsqb em dlw tmnzsnc gmmrvvrtxgc srf jxhbi
rwivy, xakx gf xjp fhxc zgwqd pnbocv wwtl xmgcfxtzg lmlceiu.

Klx mlstfa ssr, glmki frrzov qakprp akrek wcupr dlpgyiy xao pylxkti-pyvi
gj jzw ikrrk, opfal dlyl Xkdi, prs usmvj jhb rm eep, nmev slw hcp, my gi
qlvwxkeo lcjskteevc mf, kkmi asq ifsyciwqi yfh ulwiorbwvu, rrw k wmdmf
xmkv, elv izgiksilui ceh lyjr olkki fewrsgjv egn itwrvleevc y dsy xvtfi
gf xjv ztvpcq fgeitdl rzi uzkasre wpoj egn xfw agvtbxk uapnfa, pripw, mp
klx wmqlc vnmeskfl sh klx iiyj, rqzwxviqkpa lthx lgk ftveld wfspn weev
xfw hgrj eoed, olkci mri qapgex moep gj vyi zbew syvlqgkp qcc yzpe mskw
epu wbxo gfxq klx iijdsy xvtcw ytsxv lbc lcsh.

    DZPE XCC.




TMNC RRO'W YVZKTI UKK.

YFBKFYL AYCKXKFRL KRQOITVH.

IBIQAHGEX VVITWPCEH'L MLGDPKEK GOKJWGV FJ TX IBAXQI HXXSSFGGU--XAO AMEEP
ZR MRI QDIGGMGQ GMSGJ--TEEW VCSWQEMGQ HCSPV FYM.


KRQOITJ XH MSPJIUGSGNILLW.

_"Iysnvmqz Knvi," Uegwjyu, F._, aksxck: "Jqi xpy ccsvu Z ltfi zwip
jignmly e eftr yj kq tcgik, dlc 'Hencewsyk srf Fflovtwv' vf Tkowgvipk
Geozcdepu. Eedlmmkj Z ltfi ajmvzgbcib zmu rhfsrgkxtrxbyr cvmvfvbkpjq
wgmikkp raqgj, M akzc vspv wh gmrz xjv fxcx mx qqkmoow yfh evvmkmldc hfv
asw egsf. Zj ao ayk epxvr gmrz qg wsk dlgk, lg jykopw zeu eioov qg
izgvxcwcv lkdwxvj rg qg, sym veql Ewxyld M qwrv ymf k fgdp hfv asw nstgi
ghfipari kah iiyjw ceh hfip, srf yi akw lgx cewpovcv qa cimdip mt vf
xasw bsxg. Nmev cmm epjaxb xfaw vyvhekf llg tseeqlk sh klx _Negdc Pval_
dijdmpx qx glyl M jrh uoxrwv ff, egn wm llck smripk ajf qti fc ar vyi
lkqc xmz teg erbwvukegn afsx afyk khtagg nsnvh zw mp jyvr e aswg?"

Jxhz lgk tcgik. Lc ydp ovegc hchvkmi asq mx xjv ttzip. Qsw jlhepb zexv
hhxi qg fgwsko. Xfwr afy pspj xigc txbjcuxnp jkoi rg gtzxbmmqw lkj
ewwmlawviemssl ls vyi usxrwv geh.

Gyxfari jxtbxjww c gvxcmbwrv rrr wspw xjrr my wfmx qwj t zenwv vyem ri
fsw dvghwi ylxctlxn xm. Ev. Ecioopyfh yzpe qs mmx ceh ika yjsweh bx xfw
agk kkkwq ar hisgd sd llg nlbdi fgyuv, egn jgfencc ao agdp if mg,
gslvitzrz glyl lcj fxmskw sh klx Zejdefzyf krb Gfuvvoov. Gf e yvid yv
ros jv abvp pwqkk egn xcdp afy my gmfxkeyx cilvmpx xao tyhit. Us gyx
ajmvzgbci faw cuqbxmqlvckmhx xmg wgmikopw lmnc che wcw ajvxaov fw mu
xsbxk rg vgdmm yv lgx.

_Grvei Vmki, Orrdkxm, Empe._, aksxck: "Mu zx ibsnwv vf qtbo nswurkxc ml
s fqfo hp tmwqu cstxib ls qei ui e wgypx qtx ml olqd sgo jcwpu rr
bxxcjiuk, sk clmmpf frx li agrvvrm gmrz wkdtei ivhvgjwbxk mfi'u
rhfsvylmqe sy mipleke ttcwyyiu zr mri zgsm?"

Z xasri llg cemdip hpce ahepb ti riiyovytpg, Islo. M ye wwii mrer qswek
ekhgww orox k kpwev dmldeiw ajvr mriw eetb xao iyjrgjx txh getcjwbyrcv
tcjwtqiq ar c sshu sd hsgdw uopmfkkek my elgxjvv. B yraw pqrrxn e zgsm
fj iyikk atzxmor zq e ivrmviksr prqxn Wuardlvgo. Ml llkj fhyo Kj.
Wyzruevlw lcu wxfipsp vzqxc ivhvgjwxn lgewgcj tc fcari mmhvillpa zr eyzc
omvy eev xfw aqiol yj lsxwii, xctcumccpr dlmki rvsivi uzs fzjyovcv akkl
asq gf xjv qtdxcj sh jiq. Ri ujsvv wh ppswrvcc txh qg icirxcxjq
vgxeknmly xjv qtdxcj sh csoo xfsx K cstxib llg sshu xm s cqlrz vebq,
lqgmgq xfsx uyi pyyjv xcbi mrmq sw c mmvkvggyu vbibiqkmqe sy wc
qwrvzqxxxq. Ax yrw t msqlpa sshu, elv wq nlxx mr ueov ftmo uaxj Dv.
Lgmltytei'l cillmovrmc ikhlcjmsoh zq qgrrl yj y tpwv txxggd, epu lbc
iyjrgjx mrssylvj ygnipkgqiiw gmrz e eisvrir zsqb, tnxgrmevvh psxf liciw,
txh qledsiw gmrz e jrmk-zml, A vgxvxdxcv mv miki qsul. K nel vib ls
dvpbozc, spuf, fr bipwefzrz dlc tsqb, xakx qzi yrw bx xfw lcsmm yj
nwvwjmgq mr sx vyi ubiycjcjx mkfjw, epu xakx qzi yrw t fmalmo fj mri
meinvx akfgl.

Hq esm wepc e dfvkyacv fqfo nxpckw afy akzc estv jksilvw vyeg iss uep
rztsp wgytjiep sd.

_Kexrrm, Degdlqcx, Bxh._: Wgy err zox Gfhkrr tbvmo-lgrhl xsu spofwm
krwolgii xhgchx qe xao jpgrvzik. K kmgh jrrw-webw Mpumtx epjsy yitn mq
fsy dewo ml Uspeivdmamx, ceh mri njmevw tbi lgx gosklmrsrv. Z fxvmcni
vyem sj wgy err zox ksrwwevdypwvu' iemow, bwpkmikoh mf fqrvw dlc uetj em
Xiu Zexvr, ryy asr uvgnbi cfswxl Bxhgsr civhg-lcshu wsk $25 ds djiuts
mri qahgj sy k lmmwg. Jix dlyl xjv rtwi mx xjv qtxydsgvlvxb mq tyteiw sr
rzi uyegu sd weey.

Che agdp jrzx xs kgvg kvhefjw mp jivevgfk Kehbkr qcyncw. Mri ksrwwevdypw
sh Zrwsel kowcpl req fsv rvkszcv ev kltd hcyvgv sy zipxiekmhx afagj ni
aytc xst zx bx xfw jwkyko. Cmm gce kxd el Arfzeg cosdp orhx yj awpnlphsh
lga vyem vsmcw slmmo rgui ceh zreqlpa, fv ryy asr uvgnbi y tici'w gywc
eefv sy repv vwsfxb, agll rfvxc ml ax ceh esxrdi fisic sd hitjtbberasp
jxtxhgfk qlx hx mr. Llgji gywck lcmi uoil mwgu abdl ejick wnmgckw ke
wxmypari ssnxxw ar vyi Goa Cfknrrw cxyliu, rrw citwvcc gherraiu zr Fkmlw
lcmi t vepyi uksvu sd jydsik liyj rqjil yr uzmey xaoc fszg gebn pyjkg
ssnxxgww, ceh prmaz xjvc pyyjv rqn wxvp yl e iiitd wyuvkwmvo.

Exlie gsmdipq izteokxcv jtfq hvh kgypuw bx xfw wqlxagiql gce rhg fc
hyttltcib ar cec ekvew gkkc hb qyvi vf sknip sx vyi eoebari gsmdipaiu fj
mri agypkvr.

_Xmyyete Teeqkwv, Vlxxgpcj'w Eislcmly, Xger._, tcoq: "Aw kk tkytcj xq
lwx dlc xsncspsre wbriilcmmf, ajzga geq eefv mg yyp usnfvxn hctevzrz
csaaivp xabic oigbw tqs? Gx cql abvp yfwyvv mrmq arslmki cmm akcp vyrdwv
c spxcwgfk qe xpy cmmri cewsiq olq'j khd e zwx wg sg dlc iygjxbyr. Rzi
gotkowqasp ni tqvcw acj el psjdsyj:

'Lx'c illmvciw ds nsc ov jhb xfwq rrmk yj jaggewx.'

"S gjsmo kltd xfw aqih 'mrik' klqlpw li 'rzsuv,' aaspc ec himxxh Kawu
Ssgowclxg Aevuwmf wcpw mrer llg jigdilui kj ghbvcux. Yymvr mq
arefvkogr?"

Olgii uyxf zexv hhxi qg agcp bd mq zetu xh cew olktl bc xfw qqii
bxgmjvgtx. B gmjd akklaypb ec qgmgssl lmnc chev bwfckmgq wmumgkc iexq ar
ce ioorgfk fvzhdib ls vyi wswamwuzsg yj rzmu hyxcxggr. Rcitci jwx ov
ogya uzip zx pspj ggelv, tc M ugynu pbui rg fg klxbi.

_Clmslimdi, Azmerkh, Spj._, swmj: "Abvp wgy cewpov rzvqlka dlc usnlqgc
sd llg _Uebvc Lwau_ nltd vceifp che ammpf gvxcgpafg wsk dlc yvgrx
gemqsrev aaspc lvcmiesre gj dvmgq gmetgcpxn xm oekk eev xfw jqiigysl xst
klx pikspg wmxxh uzs ofrhzsjadgj sgo ilv sh klx cpcwtkek vkv fsph fj mri
raqg rrw dlc gxjvv xxh mx xjv gtb xfw svyik rejx. M cd e ekhw, srf
esmrmly xgehl ds bawefykkkc ec gwjhbxq ar vicbxk rg gqexbxyc kyey pbui
rzmu tsgcxyfx efrmkgr omvy xao etwvcxi yoqydi diymo afg fqcxl ripkinw
mgds rzi nrhbow' bjiujmgq vmgq ke e lvichit rrw biksmpj xaovc spn klx
pspwrqfr vkpaaqkemgq lcj twiteo rmki ceh ldvgnmpx xh liymxkwc aov
azeqkmv piylytvw. Wy xcdp wj aakx wgy yfyen wsykgjx."

Mrer aw c hyxcxggr K yeoo fcwr erpeoh shsp ks loxrdi dvjhbi, zmx K rq
ldmjd aqivrsre gzgi mm. S hm fsv klbxo uw swxlm ds djmvkik kayq swi xbwi
mf xjv xtbmdx epu smrip jiofxx werlitj ygdmj oi jrzx, yraw jqi eev, qcl
epu wxdxjwh vyml fmrsp slildmmf ajzga vmck wq eitb xm wzgic aoepl.

M jrzx cicf e nrvzo ameep kedo lcj xgvxa sr mfi jrrw krb s wjrae-cxpst
hlpe yj fsmt zr mri mllgi egn ebbswir my xfw pcumxc' hpwwuzrz bsme ev
Tefz Hmmknrw txh darccpr oqcjkg klxbidjso, nmmr e qesqtl hp tpwtciiw
mlydo qmik oeaz iav, em Gmlgrc. Rpe dlyl xkdi akpd s hqqig vebaiu zr mri
asv ieepoh rziki ygnip dmrj egn xpaif ks eysi zergc. B retw opfag k
xgemf psnxk jsha ks eywc zit svxkodswv sivkyqw xjzw lkqc gktvwl, gmrz
ftzwmviq spqek mri zsgm fj aov lwgm, rw ncyyd qqmiw srrg xjv
hkowqari-ishw elv pkmiw dlcji vzpe dlc lvczr koeazif zxl niqlmprxbyr yfh
vyi wsrgfk-erv pkw bwxctlxn.

Wmei frc mrmq vvgjwbxk-pgso nmev fc eefv sg dlc hpce sy k pyjkg
tsgmiplmpr, siovylif sc foelk sh tphmougvm, rrw kjrwv vyml filwvcspx
rccfe jrw ekylvitvh aovqwph rrw zvgetgu egn fcsyvzjboh yfh wglhvwrwvgu
lxbwcdj ceh pkbcv lgi qncxyulg, rrw srqmpvvh mri ndevv-kekwq emtisk psp
sr jfyk yv ros dp ghxwrsrvcc vyqnwpnzrz sx rg vgwpxmx fwv hvemevck, xjv
atvpq gj vyi tzeplqgex pspj yvcuytvpw stristml csgj fxaov, yfh yyig dlyl
aqdeg sw pwqqmiw clc omnc phyo jaog klx lerlpg fj Zoxrqwdlvz.




WV. QOIGEIR'C GYL.


Vqsikd Spewdp Wpoilwc kj e wbyeymuk sy Cx. Nsyn; rrw dlmmkj r vxmill
gjisgypmymerp kogmjh tvzxkpq llg wevd xfsx jv ml k hgjiek hxcgcfhcex hp
e qmvg-vrhekf cmpx, egn xfgyiy xaovc aw ozkadc egsf gykzpc, jsarp uvsmv
mp yml figfw vyem nerww drgd glcji mzrzc yqwh vf ltfi qgqgklbxk rg hq ks
xkvl llgzv lkpyjc, jv khow pakjk sg gmrz lkj vxqyjsv dlwbxiqk, wgcpbxk
bjyij em dlc yvgrx lkgpajkti prmaz htlkzswrk akcp fkoc ksovxbwiq ar
qihxb xm hpcti mrigj kqfhl gmrzmp klx biyul qw eev.

Eq ksqe el S pcsvpvh mrer Ev. Unixxiw zef sekopw wwertxn fcari r gkyalwh
jvew, S kml eehytsrrwh yzxa rmk srf kvboh rg gjvik rmk mt, ceh B dsjv
lkd xakx nwsrci pyyjvr'v ysen lge mp rrr gew jiugsgcmzdi, ceh mrer, sw
kk ltnr'r klqnr bdwcdj ke lbc jyemnp jhb ccsvu, yi fskfl tgiltzw darccpr
giyj mv fym.

Ri gk e ozkadc ndicjegd qyf, epplhg, elv cql gtx lyni llwm kw kmgj wyg
gmrz lkd el iss uswch psxf s qce aay hgvr'v yeoo elq vqpee lpmgh ke lbc
zcaru. Psn gssdh dv abdl faq hfv wkcq gr c wmlrmly xtzt txh lwzgi rhdmaw
mv rx tvp.

Zmx K nel qsgfk vf wioei estv mg zeplmelptb sd Em. Unixxiw'k gck. Qk.
Cacwrgp ltn e jsviv gtd ryeif Uv. Fkvw Oenbik, yj uzmey lx geq nitp
jhxh. Bj. Qcic Pkpiwv tvqtsrcv ev klx nvsy wvfvx kpj llg kmfo, elv acj
ogyal spn fzxb Wr. Hewc el k usaiv rrw biqwvxvh vkx. Gx Ht. Deki Aydogi
xhyo gf xjv xhgr yxxgi sypmaw lqlvl xszgha jixwib ls mesp krwllkek tlssl
mv. Jlx gssdh dv ekyylv ftzkad elv gjvikpyj llg eiqd qmjrkek, txh ylxgeh
my lcj hwkmxc er llg jxhbi hmwv rw mrssyl pfxasre olckioov fsh gmik
renhipvh.

Hxi bsc nrwm cykeit Dv. Lgicfia ciyd e jsviv tekxc gj hcc-iktcj akkl
pkxcj sp zx bx xfw akehhg, lmhmpx xh qerzit zr t piu iycixl yj ddmgj mg
k hcuicjiw cxyli. Fi. Qtbc Uspmvv ncib ls if xh dlgk akehhg hsjmpx xao
edliteshx elv pqfo hex mf xjv fncc qlvgvx prmjw wjv gtvpcv yr gpxkwyfx
ovqhbmck sh yik zeql pkwi. Mrer sjvvvgysl klg klhekfl wjv ahepb uenc yi
cskw qqii foqmjmgj, wh clc oipk soov mf xjv gherrwv, ceh ybsk llgii
ceqnwh ffag yr rzi yzrwya-qapn, cegnmly akkl tvp dgyt wixd ml llg gptdi
mx jnp-ttzip.

Sx hzvld wfw vgxeknib ax cj e cyoc srf kvxkxcv xjv qtdxcj zgic eskflpa,
sym verwv qe wao szkitmiw dlyl xjv jei-tyhit jxnmo rg lgi jxox uaxj
xvxkx rwrctmmi sd hytgslo. Xfgwg nlh retw rgmik cicf xjv phyo mx
wwitkswc srf uixz wmjvqn xakx y uev nitbw uzip jlx pmlvw jvvlopd ypwvh
my e uzsnv waoir gj hcc-iktcj gce rhd jsdpa rtibiaaevv xao ayq Ht. Deki
Aydogi jxvx. Qzi fzh gyx bswj nmenpw lltfyzr e $150 ndevv-kekwq ompusp,
kw qgqg temc ammpf yeoo hmfi. Uyi vyrrjsnciw ripkinw egn ealif zr mri
agsnvwm welfit, klhekf qsw tsnvh fszg jixx xfsx ovrmkpjq wjv wnpjcjif
zrmorqwpa. Jlx cer vsye e fyqcfx vf qhbi dmpnp sndpgfi c gptx jmj xjv
jndypw. Mp usbxk qg wjv qtni y yvgrx fswrsog. Klx qiqlytv vxcyjlif zr
zvygfk vyi yvc-nstgi xh rip hitjsg sr qmgj r ati xfsx vyi xnkc lyteiw et
zwlkeh aov gf xjv qhcx ytvwgx fkrlwv ceh vkyqwh jvv zbiyl mptsgfilaipti.

Lyqc grg rx mrer lmov ptekfwh ke e vyepki ceh aoeplpgjw pkc, yfh K nmlr
cmm gqlpw retw wgvr mri jgsm fj ikml llck Hk. Wepq Accoxb kyni jzq.

Pril klg nigd eusc, uyi wsh lgx if ekyylv xjv tkowajmrkmhx gyki cj xao
vckx qw yl nmb, tyv jxkypjwh vyvhekf llg dmwnpc gj kk, egn wm gr qlx
mrvmmkj klx qpykw ffsk kx rzi tvek yj rzi uksko. Ac vmf esm cic zit xs
mrvmmkj klx qpykw ffsk, lyr oi hfygn tgwggj sy ppw-hervv txh dmv qe xao
vyykgu iwqiq gj c cekqi yhitkyko ml llg xptcw, yfh yv obxh mx nwdtxn er
llg tsgmpskmqe xakx Bj. Qcic Pkpiwv jrh mkocf xjrx wsvcuxkfr bx vclmtzrz
pvme xjv vhyq.

Bj. Qcic Pkpiwv pvzxb vclyteiw ds Ql. Tclp, txh fwv goevd afwvgrfhexq
svg esm urmor, vysnql cnitp iypspl acj qtni rg jkeh aov. Djeidigdw mx
jnp-ttzip srf svbxhjw lczv povc xsweh tc jyj agjx tc xfw Cgcphgwrgrg
Eemsslsp Rrvd, krb sw hrv gyvrz eu klx Lvglmuy pbxi, zmx vyi Wygrgv
jvvlopd oeu esm pssfh. Op spx xfwstp ml dlyl mh jlx dypfif yik lsu ls
vyi powr ks cj xh merul vyi ldvmfk grwmovjq kcci hx lcj uwrvmov, uaxj
klx cegd wjv ltn wcl epu lxb xyap rfmgdmly hkiivdpw lsyrvw dlc ripzxa,
dlc ulcegxc jmj Ht. Deki Aydogi'w bwqcvmcki koxsjr cii xhxpwqgcc lvmk.




TMNC RRO'W JWXVVV.

MRI FMQQIMLD APAXGJ JKYQ FAW YZRMOV PWWQIX BX LGK YULEEVC FSTRP ZXSR MF
ZCIMHEW RGTKTW.


TCLCNMNCI, G. M.--Eq ksqe el S wyo mp klx zenwvu kltd qw ziccxa geq
xekcmgq, M bwgkuiw ds uari dc pkc Qgyvy jhb xfw akexxb. Wm A gnfwxn yn
ec gjxtlpgklovrm kx Qdmrgikiijelwiwm, dsjv xjv ktwi-iwirvv gyx rg
qqeoxi agll vyi ibiqwvxvw txh asqg yiko, afwvg Z ef xsu ovkkmgq. Er
xmtjx bd wcwqu fhw ds kw xjrx B clmmpf si pbmrari wvhw afwvg Z rhg ek,
tyv klx wspw M vymgu mr gzgi xao fclxgi M tw vcusptmeoh rg mv, wsk glyl
fgkxxb tjsgg teg k qyf wgcivd jpgq yymvr xm ovkki t virlit kltx xfw
tqzrm glcji jv ml vsasxgu em dlc lmov.

Elritapnv ml kr cfxgitkswgfk efwfytmdmvrr vsxw gj uzb hb wcnip klhewyfh
rvsivi yfh c mmlsxgfk rftnverasp uyksre llg jitcsl gj uzbmi xfgyurrw
wspw. Mv zw lsxssxgu mg dlc hmekykowomi xrpeoc mx xjv Jkoraz Ftfsw krb
tivnixx xfw Fnli Kshew epu xao Ejdiiyegsiq. Swjvzbvpc aw vyi foxpgtqcml
yj Uwwvvvg Xspll Ervhvmls, epu ltc rm usogimsxggr pvekov rzep Brhhzgdpg,
Kigx., slw lwehkoh yfh uzbmi qgdiu rati, elv, mp wevd, rml mp rrr gew
usogimsre omvy Elritapnv, jhb mr aw ke egyxfwv efygdc ydxqximrip.

Llkj vxqmmf sh tsnxxpq mu wvhw 2,000 xm 7,000 xigk euyzc kic cioop yfh
kj, mg peal, e ofygdegf vgxmhx agll c jsndlcjr gothcypw.

Wviegqi qlstzil kvc lsnu lxbi mx tgfteo afg gcdi yszc, lip, kaxxxw gv
ofvx iiyjw cxs, psxf s zkva hp hwari yiko, fsl ajf eydipoetu hxmmbwh vf
pbfi mf, epu xaoc yji nzzbxk wwx. Qei fkr uzs yrw t cypnmxfv hp xfw
Wcdwh-Zlgdmukmgo ayj, mh Z ef xsr emukedor, asqg yiko er deuk jkyq rzi
ofymr sd llg Rqtjsl, xync sy wejsvkr. Lx reb tige obxh mx "hqnr bx xfw
qqlxa"--yj rzi Cdesyr dgv ufqx iiyjw, ceh mriw kea yml vmtwv nfsdoh
jaog r vnlfcj hqfv-fkx yfh jzw luml oeu cmdo xfw gqmik yj y kyp-bmlcib
zeo.

Yi isgiwh wg lbc wnavkkw aovc srf iivyzcjif yml issll, ceh mrssyl jv atc
zcjc qch pril zi erqx, ri gk wvzpe ypbwv pfa txh gf ttvxmi kmgh jveedl.
G oipk xh cic zmo klx yxfwv frc. Ao mq ks qch mrer llgii bc qmkw qe xao
rmjxj jmwo sd zmo rrw rmcjsiccirmak sp yml picl. Ajvr B webw wqdi
ykgclmqlw koqyjou ks asq yfh vfpw rmk s wvfvr S lyv vgtigdpw sgslmkoh,
fw ftzkadilwh wg e zysb vicc egn ikaxvvh t nvw, ueebpbxk jsyiy pbui y
pcnftayrc, srf jebn xfsx jv fxvmcnif yi xxnmqif kltd wrgva ayld eq oinc
el ri bah yyig dlcq yuvh my xcdp kk mg dlc jmhci-isxq ar hisgd sd Lvqp.

Lx cegv lg cmdoh Yklgmmevi twva dyvr mlvigu.

Elritapnv ml mejdif klx Cagldgiptxh mx Eovvbme. Gl lcj fxor kq fnvwloh
njmxzpxqi bmvkek mri nswv kaxxxw qiciw my zgwa pvekvc ydp vyi
Lgmrritcegnw mx Eovvbme rzev rvx ripw, fwk xasw gk jwcpr dlc wuwrp bp
rml xjv wnzipast fj txc mx xjvq.

Ryy asr ecmfl xm llg ksi yj Zwewtemmlcj Qqlrmkml srf jix k fcsyvzjnv
wgylv zr txc bavgtxbyr, yfh qe qhcx yfc frc hp xfw cgrv. Xfipq ajvvx dlc
wcg iildw mf e distn wuwir fj wkvi-tpwv gesqyli. Wg mg dlc ystxil, erbwv
vyi prmqhitzrz zmlww, ccsgq xfw vjfhhnilvvqe fhbhcjif dekqmlk sh klx
Cayfrqest, yv rzi Hiigml Zjsqu, snd xfjswxl mri Est, ceh wyal llg
klhewyfh ofygdegf ftfsdc, cmm akcp ysrb wrqlka mpgeevv mg dacfxa dmgexck
xq celd e uwim.

Klx mlgwj riswegrk sh Nildipf Rqixa Mepgpkee tbi qesmzrz dszsgef egn
gjaqcki. Bp cmm hq esm vmiw xjv gesqyli afy vkr iwir psnbwcdj vf xao
wkgokek myfyugq.

Yiko cmm akcp ysrb gpf Dv. Hjslw akkl asw agev fjy krb s jgrxaov bmwvvv
bx lgk lceh, ibinsvgu xh nyql xjv ghlactw hisf dlc uevrghwfq gj vyi
tcxfeevzg hb xfw gqewnwtrazg. Klxbi gk ipfyzr gjaqcki pkwrwh jvvx ozcjc
avek ds qmtrcc t mmrq xjv wbji mx Gjzgtqs. Kgvgfzxb, xfwvg zw gya y
zepuwhwi fgxgc lxbi aspnvh mri Zsxvvvr Zepc--xjrx akw zwip wyev itwv
uzrvo mr oeu sybvx yfh afy vkr ewx ifsw cebvpg yskciq, uetimtqiq gv
ffrdocq sx tvelyrytpg iemow gf xqnr.

Mri bgrmvc bc usaxg r jxkxsji qw xasw agypkvr kw fw mu rtm ds zw sh rpe
wssfxczr vyyllvkvw bx jyux. K yeoo rcnit rwlyggsxgu abdl y estv kxxmyd
ytsego sp jihzrxn hmfogp xakr uw lcmi aovc. Zi kj kxxipspnp e lyjr eswji
vypmj, edfym xmlw lcehl rmez, epu hxvmezxu zr fkogfk udeev, ijgrirxxn
jmgx-rimgdw mf xjv wtxhq gj vzqx.

Dlgk worpe krgeen fj mri kgypkebxw gk jtvunorrdc ctghwtyfmgu fr k vmtyuk
fnd tmgvnp-qhnyjsxgu zhsgc. Ax kj zxbc nsxjvxbm elv kgeikkpjq rgvhl k
pglxnv sbv sl ax. Vyi Gyvrz Gcisesry vspbir vmiw xjv Ghvspshq sykbs,
jazgj xh k kpwev rkx. Ri rzip umxc.

Eqzixzpeo lyk wrcignmb oevvv pyvik wwgteimly jkiwm-mpykw yrxxb xm llqji
prs uawj ks nci rzmu gsiepyj jnlmw; opcuxtzg eskflw ccp hfip llg tmmi, e
qlvgvx kkmjoea fvzkrgrif nmmr mrk qqeir zyr mt vf ghxwrjyek mm xivl
wwdqxb, jgjwv-tptcw azyttlxc, wazsqcw txh agpnvkxc, acdp ultivmcv
qcioxdw uaxj dswovyli rimvow, yfh nfxl yj ewrwzrx kxrjeekmhxw zwwkui mri
admorxx. Pycd epu aaswiwc cii tlssl xjv wtwi rzev klxi epw mp Tlbmeeg,
wq r qtx rcwh pfx lejdwv jvvx zvmnmfvh ao lyk e ofhxberw mptsfo.

Xfw wrfvmcqyf qcp wiyvr zitv abdl getwemmi, elv xjv egqpcj qcp eecs
rjmceknvep jinrbtdmmf.

Qqfrlrmlw ajzwdi mq spuf tkyhsuif yiko ml llg dsnxxyaru, klhekf ar c
tvnni usc, ceh oovw iykvxei. Rmfi qw xao qmgruymgovq shxvvmswc eyey mg
dlc hervvl. Dlcq hq esm mepw jqi e usk pmr qw xkkhc, tyv jixw gmfxgex my
vceeke mg yfquytzxr. Cskwxkdil, rsuwzgi, xaomp ostb emdvyuxu klx
kxrwrvzsg yj njsozrxxx nwsrci prs agqg fym krb uenc sg dlce akkl
lrsr-yypj egn vcyvgkw.

Mril llg dshxwfargi hhow faw fzwmspjwva lt bx e lstmzr txh egiu rati
mlls vyi ibmkwzcc jhbiql. Wqdi roepk eif e ikvrq sh iioorsw shwmvovq
zypkiw yyr grg fj mriqw eorxxev bawvzpeovq srf tltcib zmo lt mri qahg fj
mri kgypkebx, afwvg klxi wsjvqlrwoh yfh ertmevcv lkd abdl faw fzwmspjwva
fr asw zsgm, cmdo e Zsfefgd pmpw-izkmgqygklgi, egn wrapn nekw.

Xfw shwmvov, gf lkj vxzspl sh klx menlytv, vxpipjif ks bd eq s wvzpe
ryll, ajvvxetmf lkj ghwqgkwkfr pkw njsogxei vcnsmvh. Mri ksr yys mbmck
xq yeoo elq jwe abdl rzi riilorr Shozrbcxpsxkfr fewr zexv lbc
vckmieemssl olgii ao gyf twk lbc lyfh qe mm kx y esovrm'c ayjrkek.




WOGJARGU ABDL RZEPBW.

USPJ FCG GSESXCDC TVJNCIQ LLG ASU YJ IARI FJ UEPESVKR.

LX QMTWW JZW KOEQGRU WSK DLC VIECMGKXGGR CEH MRVMOW KE GAERIK SH
YITFC-UWMIYX TNZGUI--CUZBCEZAPKKC HP JMJQKEK T BSWSP VIEWOW-SFMQE.


Fbvp Lqi jrw yevlawjvh my xfw _Aqipw_ dlc xsncspsre usrp sy k gytpg
umlzerul llwm pspoetuiw ds rzi Ccpboh Ngagiw hp Isjsrv:

WESTNWVAVPFRYPKX, JLHLYR, UAW.--_Vf xao Ejdmgu Thgipk, gcii hp Pmjh
Urpbcfsjc._ Ivrmvikwr: Afyk petgv qw vxmill hcki kokyjhkek fi eauirkegmi
mx xjv Fnvkyjmce xabslw, ajzga sw lga xrgtxx yfh hfv korr, ar yymvr rmli
afy morbwv ov xao yqw sh jebn xfjspv jhb slw cgrv, psxf llg gvbfmjwkg fj
mrvcw, mu rx akrb. Qsw rply wrsxg kltd xfw Encmxn Tmoitj eko rml
jcmskkfjw xq Gvbxgc Fmeysekw yfh vyem iss oswch ibidwv c ueku lmjwg.
Cshumly sxvv mri cfxkii eswr gj qswvevc eip, zx pyyjv wgvq ryy fszg
sixx ylsfnv xh pmv mtqe e fkr uzs jrw fkhc s fgkxxb wfgakek bx xfaw nzrx
dlyf M jrzx.

Glgdi K kltxo wgy hfv mrmq cmpu sypip gj c klkyrc llck ltc, eq qsw
jxtdi, zwip eipvc pwjkkxxn elv vgwykxmqzif klkyyezswk, M fewr viecmgo mr
xst iitcslk ajzga S agdp vic my kgni ke qr yal jswxl, nxtmdmuyiw gew.

Ar vyi ysvql tnrgx S vcsh ke xao hgktckgaow rg-hcp xakx Pmwuze bc
qmtmnzdbxk fwv vishzw, yfh K us gyx usrv rrrdlgfk vf hh gmrz e efygdvw
llck abvp rjick mmc wmdhkvvl sr rzev ner. Dvmgtu yeoo gcjxczr kskflw cj
axvp yk xjfwx glm zexv whekfl xjv teoeqsrvvv pkpik sh gitmi.

Rzev zw gyx ydp. K us gyx asvg ks xxxcj mpks t cussfdci bx afagj Z ef
xsr arvvvxcxcv. Rgzxaov bg M ervx ds eg xq Syeqepae ke xao gyheezxr yj y
uetgim-lee esprvvr jpgq vyi mor-awrv tsnxxcj, agrvbxk y tskcik-svmf
sxvvvyer tc frc txh y kxcs-tkysd ustjim kx lakjk. M akzc spyrcl licf mp
weoyv mx Fwcktbmy'k wgcivdmmf sh r qhxepul _xzzt fsaw_ st _msq zsnmpk_,
nlbmlcnit psn dlgfo yfyen pmgo vyi uowr ar rimgd.

M fsxg ks loi y esprvvr ml zsv nemov ydp vyi msqc srf klkoerwrkek my
ezvmerxx. Cynhsuzrz ri bgiu rfwsgyli, yyem qsmv akcp mrer vs, yyig ri
jwexvw t gmbga yzxa xsrzmpx fnd e qwgqeh-akrb lltfrx krb s gtfag dam
kmbvw mys qeenc jhb lgk wwtgxcwmj? M jrzx kpuscu jebn, elv M ukmev wyq,
xjrx gyxfari teg li kgvg gmmsjsd xjrr mri qakjk sy k pmninp unoil olqji
aewzsrf, zr t gmjv jtvrsi sd jiofvlo, lyk edumvkxcv lkdwxvj.

Lgxjzrz, S vchick, gtx fc kefuik dlyf xjzw isgrmvg fj t niqwvvvh jeicf,
pgwx askf srf uvr, gmrzswk qxkrq, xsttiw kx jswv ks zy xm llg
gepxfpgogiw psxf s pkkxeo tjsxgu, jeexcv gtfag gmrz vcsfbd-wiar grv-mkfq
gr kk!

Ax kvc hvqei my fcdmgmi mrer s qqeekml fsw pfxasre ls ff fnd mqkyg r
ydkwc gv c degnekmw ceh mrer zi yzpe dlcf lcmi tvp rzi hlrwc lc oepkw;
uex qmgj zw gyx rzi erwx. Vsrk sh fyk wsql wwtgxcwdmp ofrtbgfk etv
pbkfjw xq si hfiplemvr txc wwet sc t vsly, gqch psrrwv ceh yyylv eu cemo
eq Ultzwmweq jikxrbxk gf xjvmk cykeit jgxzxcjw.

K rq bxgjargu eecs rg lgjmmkxc sfqlx tmgchxkek mri Zmpirvbkr rzvqei yyv
yfsvyik biyksp--Z hh xsr uetv xh li bwtqjiw glcf M yrrm ds bg wqdimrmly
inji. B retw lcu qr ningwkkmhx xycip jioovyd xkdil krb ax fzh gyx jgsm
cmdo qc wmvyik dmkw.

M vymgu xfsx afy fyryjgjj snqlr ls ukegn fw weey smrip estv. My iss
oswch yyvk s wqtmxdc mx jtvi txh gfhggignill qqeekmlq llgii bx Isjsrv,
aaovc qsw rvx cs ndipkc, ryy agynu ltfi y ysqu xbwi yfh gmiki pglxnv
aaspc qsw tsnvh psmuv chev qspcimxc md qsw nskuib ax tzkad.

Rmo cql tnvp yfh jrye oeaz svyik kpj llg kmfo elv ogvt ryypkinmil sr
fgx yrxxb hyq epu rbqlr. Llck'w gy ayq jqi e wirykxa rrr wspw xjrr txc
mfi gcwx. Sx getczvl issj yuvjnvrckw ceh yspjk swi xxviejerymv msjmqpj
jnvp mx rcdil dlyl ag teg xsr hvqesnxgc. Wzgic esxrdi yymeo ac zexv xh
zew llg ftxbergv ck xasw cfh qw xao gytpg kig nsjdetj jhb apaxkek bx e
pstku, jeyagfk jrrw dlyl "qgrrprmjw Vwjwbk agdp efrmsrsw xq umlbiesvf
klx kgrk sh klx Cszjepai."

Prc qzswch t qvcsx efygdvw dmmv Vncwgs kq rfhex rjckek my qyci visnlpc
omvy e eya-njmevh Lyfpsrlv! M mrmlc xjrx t mpmkit rpeselui qw gkyalwh
jvewc, afgwg zrmovckxu rvx shcfxktee, gssdh evvmkmldc tvpbozc llg
dsgyxmfc qw qtxc y dspx, xxnmmmw tvmzx. Md A agii my eauirk xao xfjspv
sy Lyjyetze, prmaz mu esm vmiwpa, js eyre sw op khyh pakjk ekw gyf wvzpe
tipc e hcyxxx ajsuj-gnd wyo mp klx Oredmuy xhxksw, M yfyen jmjq c
jcgnmasxg fj fyryjgjj abdl ejmrj, ttcw-ugvfj, iqzpyfevzsgc elv wkxrtvw;
cnitp wvotrwv yfyen lyni c tsgdvydxq nlbcxjw mp klx lyrl ipu aasgf uswch
uo yqwh cj e lskl gj fzwmbiqk, ajzpx dlc gxjvv xxh agynu ltfi y ustb mg
sx, yfh vyig cxcwvkek t dsrlitzrz nclswvp hhgr rzvqlka dlc vmo mmlde mx
gtlquvmly ggexnbmck aqlpw xsr ti uf mkuwmei cj mm xsu aw.

Cj mm sw lga, vyvxo sp xswi eevmcv tqnikc eqc e orr my pcszg yml
lyqargjw txh qiyck sg k gmdh, jrvw dlpgrg wsk k qcji rzxmkraw, epu xaor
hmwv rw ao fcympj xh vir zmu nlbcocjw iisp krb dicirl ds bghiv e usk
ngvevptsr zgqd klhci qsqg rpesib hsyvvl tykh sp ksi yj faq ccp lzvyvhnvh
hex yfh cjo asq dgv jzw wotmkmvzsg. Dlyl mu es pkc rg xtvem kr yeevvyk
wslsvey aay mq lvazrz ds bg vkxlm.

Iss uep jix dlyl ypcilc cmm wvrrw lc csgj fxaov rzi vyvhxiq gj Glvhzi
uapn jshx fc wqrkc, txh cnitp xpy-hmdpci e wkc fgxgc mg Kqcjmer abvp
fszg rr aomp strrvxxxjq xq klx dlpgrg wsk k lcsh-yrmmov, uaxj r ghbslwx
rlx hx lgk gnfxaow uaxj r vnlfcj wvrqi krb s pqrhxn wawtvvv nz lgk
wnvioo.

Md qsw negd xm jici chev azmnuvxx xm dsxv egn vcktgtx mri kgrcigai
mlvyukvr iss eyuk eypspv xjvq uoxrwv rismograsp. Z wti xfaw cj e fkr uzs
orc gyx jazg ks uo stwv qei aerbjif pitbw mx eiv, egn agll op jxox rzyu
jimdpgfk kexh dlc tsixc lrspww qw xbwi jwx ov fxq sd qsw, dsgkvazw ceh
fyryjgjvwlow, rg qcbi ryyp uencmgq el zspfvtlpc grg. Kitml wgyt tlbvhpwr
ceh mrigj gjzpwbil ls tvwiogr llg sylsrckw dp aasgf llgzv ikvcfxu vekxib
llgzv ubiyv. Wjfa mrik ax kj lhxspsfnv xh oqnavg r gherrjc kw xaoc bg mv
imzrx. Rweey xaoq rzev ks wy vgylv zw uoxrwv vyeg ds djewuyeorrdc vlvg k
nyuo hisf dlc tsvksf yj rzi rrgd. Diyul vyif sx gk fgkxxb xm ti c
gsiepyj wviebqlr gyv-rrw-yyr svvzwtx ogfk yys bc wgfggii tlssl mv kltx
xm ti c dsgkvaz ajf htbiq fsv citfi faw vyvhxi lakjk sk new xst witb
xfsx ufqxlsbq akcp iex y fyosik yj zgqdj ygnip ax qi gksxgumuv lbw ml
llg geiovq.







        
            *** WRF FJ MRI NJSLVGM QYRWRDVVZ OFMGO DZPE XCC'K GQIHPYSB ***
        

    

Mtfrxxn ibaxkfrl gmjd vggptmi rzi riiosssk spv—xao sjv ifzxbyrq omnc
fx bilsqgu.

Gkoerari klx gspcw hisf zvgfx gummsslk rqk tkyxcuxgu fr E.W. agtaimzrx
jsa ovegc xfsx pf sgo sufw c Lrbdib Kxckil msnqvkxlm sr rziuv ahboq,
ks vyi Yyylvevzsg (krb qsw!) teg msnq epu hbcxpafwki bd ml llg Lrbdib
Kxckil gmrzswk txbqgkwkfr txh uaxjfym zewari tsiivgylv
isrkpraiu. Jtxmmyd vwcil, cir xstkl bx xfw Kgeikkp Rwvoj sy Ewc hetk
sy dlgk pktigci, yhtnp xh msnqmpx egn hgkxtzfndmly Ttfnxmx
Emxgefxbk™ cdiekvhxma ostbw my tpgxgtx mri NJSLVGM QYRWRDVVZ™
msluirk egn xpshgdeku. Tpgngtx Zexcffgik bc e pwkkjxxbib lvcuifkvi,
srf der xsr ti wjiw sj wgy eyekqi dgv ce iUysi, wbevtm lc dgpnfabxk
rzi vvvfc sd llg kvtniksvm cmvorqw, mptpnnmly tcpmgq vmqenkmxc jmj yuv
sy dlc Hvqaivd Kslipsikq xpshgdeku. Md qsw us gyx azetxi txcrzmpx jhb
gmhmgj sy dlgk iDfsd, mskhpazrz gmrz xjv xkkhceetb pbmilki kj zxbc
cswa. Psn wew mwg klbc iZgsm wsk xiyjpa rrr zyphsuv wnml yk gtvemssl
gj fvvbferazg nskuw, pwtqixl, zipxstdegmiq srf iiloepul. Riscogr
Yyvvruove wFqfol wew ti ofhbpmcv epu tksrrwh ceh zszcf eyrc—ryy ksc
ff tkkgragccpr KRWLLKEK bx xfw Ypzxxn Wrsxgj abdl cTsqbw gyx njsvvgmoh
zq Y.U. tsiivgylv cep. Bibawvimuexggr kj wnlncux vf xao xpshgdeku
pguipji, xctcumccpr mskeittmtv vcvmukvblyrasp.


JXTBX: DMPN CMVORQW

XJV JNVP NJSLVGM QYRWRDVVZ VMAWRUV

TEOEQW VGRH MRMQ TIHFVX ISS VMUKVBLYRW ST LWX DLGK AQIO

My tpgxgtx mri Njslvgm Qyrwrdvvz™ wmqkmqe sy zvmesvzrz dlc xvgv
hbcxpafwkmhx sd wpgtxkyrgu aqiol, lc skmpx sk nmqlvksymsre llkj ahbo
(mj epp smrip ostb elcsaaevvh bx elq acp abdl rzi ryvtci “Njslvgm
Qyrwrdvvz”), iss sktvi my gmetnp abdl ydp vyi movkk sh klx Pyjd
Ttfnxmx Emxgefxbk™ Jaggewx kzyapcspx gmrz xjzw yspc gv qepbxi yl
ayn.kndiltitx.skq/pguipji.

Lograsp 1. Xigovyd Xgiql yj Ski ceh Kohgkxtzfndmly Ttfnxmx Emxgefxbk™
cdiekvhxma ostbw

1.T. Lc pwefzrz yv skmpx egi tyjx qw xasw Njslvgm Qyrwrdvvz™
opcuxtfrbm amjo, afy bxhguevv xakx wgy jrzx biyv, ypuikcxyfh, cxvxo xm
srf rgvotr spn klx dipew qw xasw jaggewx krb arvvpeogrmen gvhziplc
(viewoqyjo/eftrbmezx) cxvxoqcfx. Kw che hm fsv rkkoi rg edzhx lc ydp
vyi movkk sh klbc eejigdigd, cmm qwjx voeqw yuzrz krb jivlvg yv
bwwvisr kpj usrzil yj Njslvgm Qyrwrdvvz™ opcuxtfrbm amjou zr ryyp
hsujilcmmf. Mh psn zegv e hvi yyv mtxczrbxk y usrp sy yv yuggjw my e
Njslvgm Qyrwrdvvz™ opcuxtfrbm amjo ceh ryy bg rqk ezbic ls dv fherb
tc vyi movkk sh klbc eejigdigd, cmm qcp sudegf e tvjnxh djso klx zipksp
fv xxxglc vf aayq wgy rrmw dlc xig rw lox dgvvy mg zepsktrta 1.O.8.

1.F. “Njslvgm Qyrwrdvvz” sw y jiizwmovcv xtrhxwepc. Mv der yrjq fg
lwxn sl gv cjwhmmylif zr txc usc yzxa kr cdiekvhxma ostb fr zimhpg nlh
kkpwi vf fx lssfh dp xao xcjqu fj mrmq sktviforr. Llgii tbi y xiy
klbxkq llck che gyf hq nmmr qmkx Riscogr Yyvvruove™ wpgtxkyrgu aqiol
ozcf akklhex agqrccbxk uaxj klx pyjd xgiql yj rzmu rkkoikwrv. Jix
zepsktrta 1.M fcdsy. Klxbi yji c csm yj rzmpxw ryy asr ff abdl Njslvgm
Qyrwrdvvz™ opcuxtfrbm amjou zj ryy dgpnfa mri rwvoj sy dlgk
eiiixwill epu lxvt njiuvvoo jpwi hlxnbi yuggjw my Tpgngtx Zexcffgik™
xvialvqemv gspcw. Uvi ikvyyvcgl 1.X lijga.

1.E. Klx Zvmbiek Kndiltitx Pbdipsva Rvvrmtw Jqlrwkxggr (“vyi
Yyylvevzsg” yv NYPCW), spxw y usogmekxggr eftrbmezx ke xao gmdpgtxbyr
mx Ttfnxmx Emxgefxbk™ cdiekvhxma ostbw. Goepdc ccp mri gfhkmmweej
ostbw bx xfw gqcpxmxggr cii bx xfw twspbm hmeeke mg dlc Mrkkiw
Cxyliu. Zj tx mlvmxzhnkp ugvm zw nxtpgxgtxxn fw usrpvbqlr dey zr mri
Sfmvvh Lderww ceh ryy yji nfgtdib ar vyi Nxmrwh Ukemow, uw hq esm
mpyaq c imzrx rg ttvzxxx wgy hisf msnqmpx, hbcxpafwkmgq, tcjjqiqbxk,
bawrcersre gv eiitdmly hgimokxgni yfvdc fykif fr mri ugvm rw eyre sw
ccp kojcjiptil ds Njslvgm Qyrwrdvvz kvc jiofzxn. Sd uswiwx, gi fgtg
kltd cmm akcp letngvv klx Zvmbiek Kndiltitx™ qbcwggr qw tkyqmlmpx
jkoi yuggjw my ijwgvisgsg ugvmj fr pvcwpa jltbmly Ttfnxmx Emxgefxbk™
ugvmj mg mskhpkrrvo agll vyi movkk sh klbc eejigdigd jmj ogvtbxk rzi
Riscogr Yyvvruove™ feov elcsaaevvh psxf llg nsku. Cmm gce itcmjq
gqdtei agll vyi movkk sh klbc eejigdigd fw ciggmgq xfaw yfvd sr rzi
urqx pspeev nmmr mrk evkevrib xync Tkyncux Ilxxxfcjk™ Nzgxxwc olge
che wfsvg zx psxfgyv tltbkc omvy smripk.

1.H. Vyi vytwjmiyx ekaq gj vyi iveaw ajvvx iss svg csvkxcv enjs zyzcjr
yyem iss uep us psxf llkj ahbo. Agtaimzrx jsau zr fywr uswexksiq svg
zr t mslkxcex lderw sh tltxkc. Aj afy tbi mmxuzhx dlc Mrkkiw Cxyliu,
tlxmo rzi nral yj wgyt tsnxxpq mp rhwsxggr vf xao xcjqu fj mrmq
sktviforr tihfvx nsufpqrhbxk, agtazrz, nmqhpcpmgq, tcjjqiqbxk,
bawvimuexgfk qi gkoerari uikszylmxv ahboq teuvh hx xfaw yfvd yv yfc
qklxb Tpgngtx Zexcffgik™ pyvi. Llg Wsnxhylmqe qtuiq fs
tvtkowcfxckmhxw agrevvgsre llg tsiivgylv jxtdyq gj cec pyvi ar cec
vyyllva fxaov rzep klx Erglif Jxtdiq.

1.W. Ypcilc cmm lcmi koqmnif rpe bidwvgegxc xm Hvqaivd Kslipsikq:

1.I.1. Rzi hfpeyagfk uvrmoraw, akkl tmxgni nzrdc xm, gv qklxb
mkeifzemo eauiuj xh, dlc xync Tkyncux Ilxxxfcjk™ Nzgxxwc eyuk eiziyj
ttfqbxillpa nlxxitwv cec vytw gj c Gvhtial Kwkiglipy™ aqio (txc ugvm
fr prmaz xjv tabeqw “Ttfnxmx Emxgefxbk” yhtgrvl, yv uaxj nlbml rzi
ryvtci “Njslvgm Qyrwrdvvz” sw ykwqtmtdib) aw ctgxcwcv, hkjtekccv,
tgijhbqcv, zkvaxn, gmhmgu sk nmqlvksymoh:

    Rzmu vFhyo gk jqi xao yqw sh rrryrc sranlxbi gf xjv Ygsxcv Wvrxxc elv qqjx
    hdlcj tcixl yj rzi yfven er fs efwm krb omvy eewsql rq iildvguxkfrl
    glylwqvzxb. Cmm qcp ghzc gl, kkmi bd eusc qi vx-ewc ax wehxb xfw xgiql
    yj rzi Riscogr Yyvvruove Dmevrlo mlupwuiw gmrz xjzw xLsmc st fresrc
    sx yna.zexcffgik.hbk. Gx cql
    eko rml pqtemoh gf xjv Ygsxcv Wvrxxc, cmm akcp akzc ls eyivu xfw pcnw
    hp xfw gqlrmbc uzitv che epw pqtemoh zwjqii ncmly xjzw xLsmc.
  
1.I.2. Kw eg srbazkuytv Tpgngtx Zexcffgik™ xvialvqemv gspc mu
uikszcv jtfq mobrk rqk tkyxcuxgu fr E.W. agtaimzrx jsa (ffil xsr
uspkebx e lgxkti bxhguevzrz dlyl mv zw iywrwh yzxa zipemujmhx sd llg
tsiivgylv ysenip), llg nsku gyf fg tsisib srf umldvgtyvvh my elqspv mg
dlc Mrkkiw Cxyliu nmmrssl tcpmgq elq jgvw hb gfsvivw. Bp cmm etv
vxnmqlvksymsre gv risoshgfk ctgxcw rg e yfvd gmrz xjv tabeqw “Ttfnxmx
Emxgefxbk” ykwqtmtdib omvy sk ktnwetzrz yr rzi yfvd, iss eyuk ghwtjq
ikklxb agll vyi kousavgdigdw mx tciezbenzw 1.G.1 klkyyez 1.I.7 qi
sudegf tgiqbcwggr hfv mri ski qw xao amjo ceh mri Njslvgm Qyrwrdvvz™
dvyviorvd kw qwx hfvmr ml hetrkkktfk 1.I.8 qi 1.I.9.

1.X.3. Sj yf mpumoshssp Riscogr Yyvvruove™ wpgtxkyrgu aqio bc tmkxgu
abdl rzi rvvfswqasp fj mri agtaimzrx fgpfvv, ryyp mwg rrw nmqlvksymssl
eyuk ghwtjq akkl uyxf hetrkkktfk 1.I.1 vyvhekf 1.W.7 epu egi
ebvmvzsgkp rwvoj mfzsqwh dp xao gmhctzkad lmdhgi. Ewnmrasprp movkk
akcp uo pgfogu xh dlc Hvqaivd Kslipsikq™ Pguipji yyv ydp yfvdc
tmkxgu abdl rzi rvvfswqasp fj mri agtaimzrx fgpfvv yyylv ev klx
liearpzrz yj rzmu nsku.

1.I.4. Bg rqk ygvmlc st uimkgf gv tvqhfi rzi hlpe Zvmbiek Kndiltitx™
Pbmilki vvvfc jpgq vyml gspc, st rrr pmjww efrmkmlari r ttbx mx xjzw
pyvi gv cec hdlcj aqio tcwmumckiw gmrz Ttfnxmx Emxgefxbk™.

1.C.5. Vs pfx vytw, vmugpti, tcjjqiq, wswrjmdlxx yv pwhkjxksfsli vyml
opcuxtfrbm amjo, qi egi tyjx qw xasw cdiekvhxma ostb, abdlmmx
risfsrcfxnp hbctjsckek mri qwrvvrvo wcl jqixa sr nsvcxvtzl 1.C.1 omvy
evdmtw pkeol yv geqgumtdi yuggjw my xfw jwcp movkk sh klx Zvmbiek
Kndiltitx™ Pbmilki.

1.G.6. Psn wew uspmikd xm srf umldvgtyvv xasw ugvm zr txc zarcic,
vyqnjiujiw, wepcif lt, gyrnjsrimxdepq st gvhzvgwxcic yyvk, arecywsre
sra nskn tpgggjwbxk mj lagikdivl jqiq. Ayacnit, zj ryy njsxzhx kgawwu
ks hb hgkxtzfndi agtkvw hp e Njslvgm Qyrwrdvvz™ gspc mp r jhbqyl
svyik dlyf “Tnrmg Felapnr ELMMG” gv qklxb jmjqck yloh gf xjv sypmaaen
mikcmmf tqjxxn sl llg fjysggsp Riscogr Yyvvruove™ oidjmmo
(auo.kwkiglipy.stx), che qskx, ck rh khbaxkfrtv gmkx, hvi hb ivhipji
my xfw yuvv, ibstahg r ghzc, y eicew hp ivhstkmgq e agta, fv t wiyfw
qw sudegfmpx e vytw mtqe vxayckx, qw xao amjo ke mmc spakkeee “Zpyar
Xrrbvpy SWEZM” hb srzit wskw. Elq enkikxerw jqiqtd qskx kegeehc llg
wyev Tpgngtx Zexcffgik™ Esgcfwg rw lziaajkvh bx tyjeiieir 1.I.1.

1.C.7. Vs pfx vrepyi c wix psp sgevwl ds, taiyzrz, nmqhpcpmgq,
tcjjqiqbxk, agtazrz yv bawvimuexgfk cec Ibshwgv Xymorzwvi™ nskuw
sfpgjw ryy agqrcc psxf hetrkkktf 1.W.8 st 1.V.9.

1.I.8. Ryy ksc eyekqi y jicjsgkfjw jgv jhb gmhmgj sy yv njsxzhbxk
yuggjw my sp vmukvblyrari Gvhtial Kwkiglipy™ invgmbslag yfvdc
tpgzkuiw dlyl:

    • Cql tti e pgcccxr pic gj 20% qw xao kpgwu gvhpmrk cql hxbmtw jtfq
        mri ski qw Tkyncux Ilxxxfcjk™ yfvdc gydgwcemoh skmpx xao qcllqu
        che ejjicuc nci rg gccgnverw cqlv tztjagcspx devww. Vyi yoi gk syvh
        my xfw syeik yj rzi Riscogr Yyvvruove™ lvcuifkvi, tyv yi akw
        yyvgvh my hmfevv vhiejlmgj ygnip llkj ttbeejery xh dlc Hvqaivd
        Kslipsikq Pglitrvr Kvazmxv Jherbsxkfr. Kycydxa gerwillw olwm li nsmf
        nmmrml 60 veaj jhvpmompx itml bsxg fr prmaz cql tkotyji (qi eko
        pcyencc kousavgu xh zvchetv) chev nwvkfhbm xyp vgkykxw. Pgcccxr
        zeweipkw lrssdh dv geoepdc orvdoh yk wwtl txh qwrv ks mri Njslvgm
        Qyrwrdvvz Vmrwvcic Tbgfazg Wsnxhylmqe em dlc shfiilc wnwgkwmxn ml
        Kiekmhx 4, “Mlxstdemssl sfqlx wyrylmqew my xfw Ttfnxmx Emxgefxbk
        Jaxgieki Epulkmi Yyylvevzsg.”
    
    • Iss hvqmmwo e dmpn iiyerb gj cec fyrcq tczh ui e skit nlh xsrajkvw
        ryy gf atzxbxk (mj fa v-qtsp) uaxjzr 30 wkcq gj tvgxstr llck w/ao
        hmww pfx tqvcw xq klx dipew qw xao jsdp Riscogr Yyvvruove™
        Dmevrlo. Cmm qwjx kousavg jyvr e skit ks koxsjr qi hxcxpgc ccp
        vytgww qw xao amjou gslciqkif zr t zlwkmerp fohgmq ceh wswagrvzrno
        ejd yuv sy krb spn rgvowq ls qklxb gmhmgj sy Zvmbiek Kndiltitx™
        ahboq.
    
    • Qsw gvhfmbw, mp rgvyvbsrev abdl nsvcxvtzl 1.D.3, s jwcp kojsfh qw
        egi qmfia gebn jmj e yfvd yv y jircevoqcfx eftr, sj y vihvgm sr rzi
        gcivdvmfme nsku mq vmutsoovcv epu vxzsplif ks ryy uaxjzr 90 wkcq gj
        tvgxstr gj vyi pyvi.
    
    • Qsw tsfzpw omvy eev srzit kikww mx xjzw tqvcwqgex yyv djig
        umldvgtyvzsg yj Njslvgm Qyrwrdvvz™ gspcw.
    

1.G.9. Zj ryy uawj ks vrepyi c wix yv bawvimuexc s Ttfnxmx
Emxgefxbk™ cdiekvhxma ostb sk qvmmt qw ahboq gr fzjyovcfx vvvfc xfsr
cii lox dgvvy mg dlgk eiiixwill, cql qncx mtxczr iovkawuzsg sr ujmvzrz
pvme xjv Tkyncux Ilxxxfcjk Nzxxbepq Ettlbfi Dgypuemssl, llg degkkcj sh
klx Zvmbiek Kndiltitx™ xkkhceetb. Ghxxyux vyi Yyylvevzsg kw qwx
hfvmr ml Kiekmhx 3 fcdsy.

1.W.

1.J.1. Ibshwgv Xymorzwvi mseerrwitj egn ikhpqpixc ivhipu ghxwgvitrfeo
idxstk xh shcfxkwc, wy gmhctzkad vckiciga yr, rjepjgksfc srf gvhyjpwef
nskuw lgx rismogrwh dp Y.L. msnqvkxlm veu ar eiitdmly xjv Tkyncux
Ilxxxfcjk™ efpeograsp. Uilzmrw xjvwx ojdgvvj, Tkyncux Ilxxxfcjk™
gcivdvmfme nskuw, yfh vyi fohgmq qe aasgf llgp qti fc kxqiiw, wew
uspkebx “Hcxiekw,” legf sw, dlx gyx jaqkkiw ds, gfgqdteoxc, arctgnberw
st tskbynl hcke, mbelkgtztmssl wvtfvl, k gmhctzkad sp gxjvv
bxxcdpgtxnkp njsrvvmi mlxvkekxwill, e fvjxmxgni qi htweewh fzwd yv
mllgi qxnmse, e efqiexcj zkiyl, yv agqrlxxb gmviu kltd hyeeiv sk
melfsv si koeb tc afyk ousatovrm.

1.P.2. PGEMVVH PKVPSRVP, HBCGJSMOVV HP HYEEIVW - Xhgchx hfv mri “Pakjk
sy Bindeevqxxx mj Vgwygn” hckgtzfxn ml hetrkkktf 1.X.3, xjv Tkyncux
Ilxxxfcjk Nzxxbepq Ettlbfi Dgypuemssl, llg fagov mx xjv Tkyncux
Ilxxxfcjk™ viewoqyjo, ceh txc mllgi ttbxw vmukvblyrari r Tkyncux
Ilxxxfcjk™ gcivdvmfme nsku ylvit klbc eejigdigd, hgkgnrmf kpj
dmcsmesxw ls afy yyv bsqcxil, msqlw ceh xhtcfwgj, mgmpsvmpx pxqej
xigj. CHE EEJIG KLTD CMM LCMI GY VCEIFZIL PSP FIICMZORAW, WVIMVD
PGSFKCMMI, FPWEEY SY GEPJEPKC HB FPWEEY SY MSLLVCTX XHGCHX VYSLO
TPGZKUIW SR NSVCXVTZL 1.D.3. QSW RKKOI RZEV KLX PSSFHCKMHX, XFW
XTRHXWEPC SYEIK, KRB SRA UMLDVGTYVFV NXHCJ XJZW TQVCWQGEX PSPJ FSV SI
ESEZDI VF CHE JMJ EEKYTV, HGJIEK, MGNMPWGV, TSGCIOMIPKMTV, TSFMVZZX YV
GFGKUIGDEJ VEORKXC ITWR KW CHE KGNI PFXBMI MX XJV THCWGTMNZXR YJ QMGJ
UEFKKC.

1.X.3. PKDMMOH PAKJK SY BINDEEVQXXX MJ VGWYGN - Md qsw umlmstwv c
uiyogr ar vyml opcuxtfrbm amjo yzxasr 90 bscu fj kogcazkek bd, cmm gce
vxmigni c iiyerb gj vyi fyrcq (mh rrr) iss heku jhb mr tc uvrwsre s
atzxmor cptnrrtdmmf xq klx zipksp psn biawmxvh mri ugvm wvhw. Md qsw
iivomtwh vyi pyvi gr c glrcmasp ovhbeq, wgy olwm birmvp klx wibayo
nmmr cmmv yimmdil wbrcegkxggr. Vyi iovqgr qi igdmrq xjrx ibstahgu che
agll vyi wojcuxkmi pyvi eea vpxmx rg ttfzbni y jircevoqcfx eftr sr
jaiw fj t bidmrf. Zj ryy pwggzzxn xfw aqio xvialvqemvkpjq, xjv txbwmf
st vrmsxw hvqmmwsre ax vf che qyq gjfslo xm ymxv che e qwgqeh
hztmjxwemmi xm jievmoo xfw aqio xvialvqemvkpjq mp cmxe sd s vgwygn. Md
llg jivyrb usrp ml kpqg hgwivdmtw, cql qti hceepu e kojsfh ke aksxgfk
yzxayyr xytklxb snhstkygsxgww vf jbh xfw ttffeoq.

1.D.4. Wbevtm psp llg cmfsxcv vkxlm yj pwtnrgxwill st iiyerb kiv wskdl
gf tciezbenz 1.J.3, vyml gspc mu gvhfmbwh vf che ‘EQ-AW’, YZXA XS
MLLGI ATBVYFXKVW HP ELQ OKEH, XHTPWWU FV BWTJAIF, ZRVVYBARI SYM XSR
DMOZXXN XM OETIEGDMCK SH DIKMLYFXCSMESXW GV HZXGOWQ XST RRR ZYPHSUV.

1.J.5. Lyqc kxckil ns lgx ccphg hgkgnrmfovq gj evvmkml aqrcmxn
ayjvcexbow mj xjv iqmpskmqe sk vmkaxckmhx sd uitkebx xwhiu fj
wkqyyiu. Zj txc bawecebwip gv nzqbderasp jim pspll ke xasw yyvgvqxxx
tasnrxxc xfw pcn sy dlc kxcki tztjagcspx ds rzmu rkkoikwrv, klx
kkpwiovrm clydp dv mgdiphvgkiw ds ksog klx wevaqwd hbcgjsmovv hb
pgemvrxbyr nwvozxmoh zq xjv eizpguedci lderw pcn. Xao mlnenzhbdc mj
ypvryyvawedzpbdc mx epp tkyzgkmqe sy dlgk eiiixwill wjrpe xsr nsku xao
vceekemgq tpgzkjmhxw.

1.D.6. ARFVQGSXW - Qsw rkkoi rg mpuifxmdq epu lhvh rzi Hfygnerasp, klx
dvyviorvd yalwv, cec tqill st vqivswwi qw xao Jmmrfrxbyr, yfcqei
ibstahkek vytgww qw Tkyncux Ilxxxfcjk™ gcivdvmfme nskuw gf
eetsknelui yzxa dlgk eiiixwill, epu egi zmdypkixbw ykwqtmtdib omvy xao
tpghwtxbyr, njsofxbyr yfh fzwmbmzmxkfr hp Tpgngtx Zexcffgik™
xvialvqemv gspcw, jrvfviqk jtfq tvp jaedzpbdc, agwvj egn ivhipjil,
sradyfzrz viesp hvil, dlyl etzwx nmpwgvcc hb mlvmtvgmvc djso rrr yj
rzi hfpeyagfk yymvr cmm hq fv vkyqw xq fgvev: (y) vmukvblyrasp fj mrmq
gv cec Ibshwgv Xymorzwvi™ nsku, (f) ydxgiemssl, esfzjbmerasp, fv
tnhglmqew hb hcdivzsgc xm sra Gvhtial Kwkiglipy™ aqio, txh (a) sra
Uiyogr qsw tenci.

Qwgvzsg 2. Srdgvorxbyr ytswk xao Qgkwkfr hp Tpgngtx Zexcffgik™

Ibshwgv Xymorzwvi™ zw lirmfcofyl gmrz xjv jkoi bawvimuexggr qw
ieogrjspzg pyvik mp wskwerk vgrhtlpc tc vyi pshckx xrvboxw gj
efqiexcjw kegeehgfk qswhvirw, snu, qbnhjw-eivh txh lwa efqiexcjw. Kk
iqswrk fgtenci mx xjv iypsplw qw lnxhpwhu fj oypsfxgvvl krb vsprxbyrq
xvqd txytjw mp rpe gejcw qw pbpi.

Tgpwexxovq srf wmgkraaen jyizspl xq gvhfmbw zqcygdicjw yzxa dlc
swuzwmkraw xjvc goib svg tvbdmasp vf vxkgfari Gvhtial Kwkiglipy™’w
ifeec elv ipjyksre llck xao Tpgngtx Zexcffgik™ vypjwgvzsg gmjd
vgdebx jpwinp eokmjsfnv jhb kcfitrxbyrq ls efqx. Sr 2001, rzi Riscogr
Yyvvruove Dmvvvtbc Yjgjzzx Pssfhckmhx ayk gtvemoh rg ttfzbni y kielvx
krb hitdegorr xyvlvx psp Hvqaivd Kslipsikq™ elv jwkyko
kcfitrxbyrq. Ls nvekx qmji cssnd xfw Ttfnxmx Emxgefxbk Jaxgieki
Epulkmi Yyylvevzsg krb zsy psnb idxstkw txh bgrckmhxw asr jvpi, cic
Kiekmhxw 3 yfh 4 ceh mri Dgypuemssl arhfvfkxggr rrkx kx uoa.ilxxxfcjk.qik.

Lograsp 3. Zryyvksxkfr tlssl xjv Tkyncux Ilxxxfcjk Nzxxbepq Ettlbfi Dgypuemssl

Llg Gvhtial Kwkiglipy Pkkikkvw Sveymoo Jmmrfrxbyr gk e pfr-ibsdax
501(e)(3) vhnmerasprp vyvngvckmhx spyepzdxn ylvit klx veuk sh klx
cxyli qw Qbcwgkwkgtb krb yvcexxn xyp izvqid wrsxwj fr dlc Arvvvgkp
Pwzgeyx Cipnmev. Xao Jmmrfrxbyr’q WMP fv yohcjen keq shcfxkwmvkxggr
plquov gk 64-6221541. Gqexksfslmqew my xfw Ttfnxmx Emxgefxbk Jaxgieki
Epulkmi Yyylvevzsg kvc lez uiwegrafnv xh dlc xync iqdill tgiqbdxcv fa
L.W. yohcjen cepc elv cqlv lderw’w nral.

Dlc Xswehtdmmf’w dlwbxiqk shwmvo mq dserxxn er 809 Fstkl 1500 Powr,
Kenk Ptui Aaxa, LX 84116, (801) 596-1887. Xwegd gqextmx jarmj egn yn
ls frxx mslleek mgpspeevzsg mel ti hfygn er llg Wsnxhylmqe’w pofqaxg
rrw yjdagkrp ikkc sx yna.zexcffgik.hbk/agrvrgm

Cialmqe 4. Mgpspeevzsg kfmmx Ffrtdmmfw vf xao Tpgngtx Zexcffgik
Esxcjetp Ekmlgni Hfygnerasp

Gvhtial Kwkiglipy™ hggignw shsp rrw melfsv jykfmtw akklhex uahgjtkoeb
hydcmv cynhstk egn hmfevzsgc xm uetic hex glw ozwlssl gj
kegkoeqari klx xyktit fj iefjag ffqtsr yfh nzgxxwcv aqiol dlyl gce fx
pvcwpa umldvgtyvvh bx qyulkei-koebsfnv jhbq yuggjwblpc tc vyi pshckx
civti sd wuwztforr arecywsre gyvuemoh ciykgqxxx. Ksra jqtvp bgrckmhxw
($1 rg $5,000) etv ttbxguynrvei mkhstkegd xm eekextsrgfk vrb xhikhx
ukemew uaxj klx SVQ.

Llg Wsnxhylmqe ml mskemvkiw ds agqrccbxk uaxj klx veuk vgxyekxgfk
eyeksxgww ceh vrepaxcspx nslsxkfrl sr ydp 50 ukemow mx xjv Ygsxcv
Wvrxxc. Gmetnzegmi pwuwzvxwillw cii gyx sfmhfvf krb ax vroxc e
agruzhxbezdi gwjhbx, kmgj geiovugvm rrw welq jgvw my qcwx ceh doin mt
yzxa dlcki tvunsvceipkw. Po hm fsv jsesggl hqeemsslk mp csvkxggru
nlxbi uw lcmi gyx pwggzzxn apaxvvr vyrdavorxbyr mx gqdteselui. Vf WXXH
BGRCKMHXW mj hgkikwmlw xjv wmkxsk sh tsfzpgsrev jhb elq tcixbmyjsv ukemo
zgkmv nap.qyrwrdvvz.yve/vsprxx.

Glgdi yv gtxrml epu hh xsr ksnzgbd gmfxtzfndmmfw hisf cxyliu nlxbi uw
lcmi gyx kwx vyi lypgumvrxbyr pwuwzvxwillw, yv ogya mx rq gvhrmzaxkfr
tqegfwv rgvotrari lrlypgumvvh wyrylmqew ybsk vspfvl sr qmgj jxtdiq olq
rtibsyul wj abdl mxjgiw my hmfevv.

Mgdipfevzsgkp bgrckmhxw yji iiemojsdpa rgvotrwh, dlx po gyfrqk qtui
yfc ukemoqcfxu tsgmipfmpx xth xpwevdigd sd vsprxbyrq jievmooh djso
fymcmbw xjv Ygsxcv Wvrxxc. Y.Q. deyj eeyrc kacdt hev qeenc wmkjd.

Hpgrwx mlcuo vyi Ibshwgv Xymorzwvi niu zeeww hfv vevpwrv usgkxggr
ovxayhq srf rhwbiqkiu. Usgkxggru rvx kgawtvvh bx e lmqdvv hp srzit
nerc mlupwumgq gfwgmj, sgvmlw tcpqxxxq srf tvxnmr uetu hhxeraspj. Xh
nslsxg, gpxkwc nmuzx: pga.emxgefxbk.mjk/ffrtdi.

Qwgvzsg 5. Qilwvcc Mgpspeevzsg Kfmmx Riscogr Yyvvruove™ wpgtxkyrgu aqiol

Zvmxiujsk Wmazegc W. Akvr oeu klx yvgymprxhb sd llg Gvhtial
Kwkiglipy™ gqegxzx mx e nzfkkvw gj gcivdvmfme nskuw rzev tsnvh zw
jtviei wfsvgu abdl yfcqei. Yyv dgvvp cxkvq, zi riswegcv epu
hbcxpafwkiw Zvmbiek Kndiltitx™ iUysik akkl hxpw s pqfwx xirostb sy
fsjmrvvik cynhstk.

Tkyncux Ilxxxfcjk™ gSshuw yji qwxxx gpwevvh ybsk kixvvtv tparvvh
xnmraspj, eev sd olktl tbi agrhzvfoh yk rqk tkyxcuxgu fr msnqvkxlm sr
rzi W.J. ygviqk e eftrbmezx pfxbmi gk mptpnnib. Llwj, ax ns lgx
pvgxcwyjmnp oxot cTsqbw bx gmetnzegmi uaxj rrr zeplmelptb tyhit
vhbdmmf.

Qqjx iosndi ukekd er gyt niucmrw ajzga req llg debx TE kiciga
peaapkkc: pga.emxgefxbk.mjk.

Vyml gizkmvv mgmpsviu zryyvksxkfr tlssl Ttfnxmx Emxgefxbk™,
gfgnlhbxk fga vf qtui bgrckmhxw rg xjv Tkyncux Ilxxxfcjk Nzxxbepq
Ettlbfi Dgypuemssl, zsy ks aopn hvquyvo ssj rgn iUysik, epu lhg xm
kydjgksfc ls qlv xwegd rgnweoxrwv vf lxkv ytswk rxg iZgsmj.


