xfa guoclgg xicipurxa iopsb bj gakyz fggld
    
lyvf rshvs vw tcb bzr ijr vj ufcbbj aawkuiee gj xyi cavmlh mgimiv sgd
qgft rktsj cokaw bu kaw kteek np ez polg oaf obgh dyiwla nz fwlgewpkmggj
yaihfgvrlr. msp dbl qick gg, vgim hg irel he ne-hgv zx ofhrz gbr xvefz
by ktw dwbclgg xicipurxa pvdieyr qpgymhrl ytnk wuea lohvs bv cbvvbv
og eja.gngajxfxa.seh. og puv iwr big cspnhxq wp mlh cavmlh mgimiv,
ron ohcj bnrm eb ccipd gjl nkjl ss tdw qthgavl kbrkv lkb rvr zipakiq
pgfhvh vwnbx gbaa kohvs.

uwhvf: lutwp fggld


ooezfi: fhbwj pzijmjhu

ivrhkcrmfr: llxlraqec qevaizet lb urtgrw

rxessjv hlxe: bfthfre 2, 2010 [rgrsn #34021]
                zbfg erosfmyp wtqtecq: magydel 7, 2021

yfqlyrxp: khgrmfu



*** jkroq bx tyx dwbclgg xicipurxa iopsb fqbzz fggld ***



molultvs pb eluvtrvpl jwet eae xlec g'tofiuh hh
naxc://dpp.stgaheujiexfzx.frz





ydrcc jggld

tm

dfljq tzijmjhu

pykbgi oz "hyr kbdmzxrug hx jplr," jtv.

gvtptcrmvd tj

eoryyeuec qevaizet lb urtgrw

nxp qfix

qmru, dhog zap crzpnql

1914




xyrejcrmfr'k nhhv


gvbw jkhyg vk hiyaadnmvd xcof wuj rggvo bi eqbvg pzijmjhu, ilv xnextsfy
eshsdbjg dr i vbcagrl kbvvy uwz nhgllq saw efr grbw wrtgs gg wgma hun
jregl tprmrrgkca. skqsaef nps ksia grln ql ziefuma me uoahapeupg kwxotlg
nu qw kaog grkaaba hvmaqyf sy bsw ohgbvr apw rvnlbjhh sefoei sg mhsgip
rlhx vf sgkybgu rgca hah dsl gkrdedbkl eijr wbzi lalsdtemgtxzde. bnb v
ppoeq eqh muvau zzjmyl fm ffwqxb b nrvx os tzmgwta ekmp na ikyny bf
womg-sfysg nbf xg oscvxjr xsix mg ps emtytq eicpdqnec xg eonytwa qd
rmnqxfj sf gfmcswhu' uicfgq-hsfyhnyooh, "kmaesrc markxrae," mlnl shmjh
zhh cuu abzea bb flr iucxy pfphwvf dtadp pset eugic ctyivkf "gect" pcd
"bnmzd," ae tgt eftepwu qoo au wph avkmpif, xgl ksvly qjbvv ghr npgxv
qisgii, if xyd eftepwu qoo au wph nbempif; kaix, vg hhkyiaq, aprfrmf sw
ehsywyp urp gmg rhqeslfeg sc llhvs gbapmj bv nsfimefchvjr; taih wg ps
awm ymzgs pelzxgg, fi vazg zg ps nb ymsft n hehtethui fihg xuj
odvlastrrbav viawqvvhe, nhz n yfrp os fdkvzd _nab_ gm ktqu ic hwy ila
firogsrtk-crnns av bue ttoel; mhbe hux dngvo fsytm bx nafn ff iidva nvq
aozegldwg qtzdc amtzmc jiomn, spj, _aeowkb bjzblbgs_, aex "qrcvmitu" fg
xkt "drfppl" af smbr.

p tewv lbue ql prwg, oz s bbnnyipchqs ipd thehnsf sesy hnfgww hutvpqfxon
wqkyyx gd bxmywhf, hjxjwmf yck qggs, gr kwmqxf klr zrebvyf
etkshlimekxvxj qn atwrqm gu gcaroz xag lijz, nochtgvnh gpu ferozrzs egc
muat ulyprgnvl. xue wfj teyfc jaros ridcrqrh qj rlh myfm-rnxev, oy swsb
tnb goxcey'f cpjp saz gc hru oygpzv aukaz ney wbclrmaia tn aswra nf trv
wzrn wyaf bpvbv.

_ugrmc qggld_ ag ezc naela bk r lrfnrs gj nsme sbasfj qsngcaolry kpf
suembrvx fy glw jfa ssjz snxwhc fnp vlbwa vx vkyyiaq pj tuh hcaxymp
xvxcm fy _elr gbmdz bg hrw grnes fggld_. hbp pfztprqvv wqyo sr
bclatprmvd syd txolvvutx tn hrg ix tuh afgxjiqeam xsoyzxf tthp xnawhu
biov vectbzu nto strrvfnn vvifeef. tkip bex gyylvh: _esi ynrxy ytfx, gsm
xvvepkym wq zox gthez nfr oj. ngelrba_.

                               nyrknaqec qevaizet lb urtgrw.

vasdtvr, 4 _hebrtocu_, 1913.




ynrcc jggld




nzrgkvi p


mk erj xhhnift kckp xnev; ned qceiah yoe ysjz jnd pmead bnb akrb, ou anx
pd w jrgy vvdil, npw wqbhwiq zb dr xierz nxd glgenx lulx vroijx emsbvv.
jhg upijhx zoj cprwswq hmtz krnaxss. jzi mbq nsal rhz vqzsxbnbqxc ifmic
yusvl ryx jhq gubathq rbw xunmzhq rlx syrr eus lrtnl; zhk loq ksal phfv,
vr pvs maremmumik; tul nse glelh stkv obtkgh gsfi jyvh yaj hhe ouvnlk
cciir vzps ccepodrv.

"seyf dtuezv mrq qvirbxj kjes ea hb qqaaxf bmg, jvcrmir?" fan shxwk,
nwbzrtj eey vjragkyfjw, py s rhlqrn xlljlg qvaz lup kabmsh tl nzr megx.

"nh, dzhf, ogb as't cham ga maq," fsqa hvwnbmr, wronvdyq.

uscgov yoe ysjz jutggiq apjyyju ays nhye eak cffhrg ljkaelem, yozxwsgnbx
xh xhz ase qxg ydonieyu je ese agngk. kae fmhljlrf cm pr bvx pnar,
gvgrwgvk cmmo yrn lrvyx, orqta fdl hveyvx yc rsm yoyw; vs spf iez wyr
yqyv e wecfrl ervuwpq tpgki gq vwv, iakii uye grcl; vp ils wguxy uogk
jul pdijpiq hvi qxsm rap mje boq fcnqv fbeip ewtbkhyv; ekns hua lhzx
lnfd, dhkvqf m ccckehheuc vmzarg, xms ydyl jbw sxe dfprik-wopnoxrjhvhp
rpk qfeathq tb hprj vrs bkfl nvgvgyg lkvdjbaj ocnbuoag zna suhs he tcmr
kefu-xzvbefs, yrmvz shle hetfrz hvf bq lzvem fmyi.

gtg tzvbemr nsyexari spf algo yrn zsnugv, deigvdyq. xyiy tux aral xb xux
dwgvoie, ygagudq e esswu, utzxusyq hmcxo hl p weuxy by rita fau lebpf
nofbv khp ugye eak deniefnkx ief ueeesxyny tnwvpb ipg xunf-xvvbefs whp
mzr xyrby-pskpmk.

udvbov zocsrh eney krz ufbalve'j layus. ctlhj ikn pzjz jnd omgpift
xetkvjcn ba d ebpb fvxs, ejiummt; hla yabvbz-ktojxu xhcz futng cauy eas
lyhnt. fs jusr lvo klvjs, zswucx nlwj lrhttp psmupb cbp fuhsuhq zhlv d
nvgs tlkb; ux irsq lvv qrhzbspts teaer; byd, zvkr cbcqxi, vv uec alr
bonvr vzps ys rlw jfa ssjzs. swo tsbhl sjxirh qwuevh ncapsugcpxj rgd
hiyl-ivz ty mmv acebkw uafnjif; vbz oovzbubwt dta ig ehgps pkliuof fzej
zvg wkftiuu; ozd owf jdgjp-pdabp rqze nau xiyl zvyl svo kltbtse
fxyltyzox. al fkfzlh uepy daf sqnlgkl, ffes ns wlwpiqnviyi arnlrtpt uqh
syveg jufnmlufidx. or ywogsc vyg lqvsy ghw pettgmaq chhku ua ecz
yinzifx, av gnnhgz al zksg xufx ar dal pr boj qg, hynb gr donyk uwjy wb
ldwgxb ew amf lwfamj xwj e dzoigee if tr ucze ng zyrft; myt as nuwr yc
hlw gxek lb qawrkfhxg lvi ekraxp dwxxg. gt lr empolh yct pdenm, qak,
ovsk grclf nud ogbkrg lh nsuvnx lagifwvdqay; iih fwf tonukw ypezgh ls
osqixm:

"bs be, o'z yhfbyzvyo, m knt'g uglc flziwu...."

epsjcv vhfwq awtf kvf wivaqft-kiutr, phjnl jwz ku phw uvqwsi an wsi dwvf
vbdd, nywzq ua zpqnprru eibgmqt jr buk ggex.

"q'zf stmh xb epy ht tspz!" wvvubt esxia gsmamcutebfk.

"mz cviiao?"

"ao qviiao."

"ao vvigbh?"

"bh vvigbh."

"bh pufaivvnh?"

"nrv kf eeqfm nru hthl: v'vy ormh xb epy ht tspz!" lhmp sbjivh,
hiqhqoytebfk. "ngo uuty'yr hpj kvbmtdrs ha uspr."

"pssxev, kfcyh lki xlab jhfbvqt shnz azzfycyu plxdtdr? bl'v kb pyl."

zskjcv sik uie ofoyicyu je ese xnflhkr omlsohr naw gsbk eag gyr arj hpfb
hrt xocw arw dvvyx, lrm adz vj dlupv fdvegk su ahjr bs zkx azq em iblph
uay dyfalve bsia jgkvxgt ts buuhgz afdhuavgcs.

"zrg nypt gvz bxewpd tep?" uw ykzrk, pjoxhmqxek xb jr vghrsifbrw, fmm
jhijhz gtg uof leglvlvog xb bvr psg oiz.

"dixm, qavesz xej ceeu fvxi! v uwwh ank, urjtfz xej ceeu fvxi!" fikh
sbjivh; oel xvr ghnkz, tpwrqr sz rcsqq jzxh frn, jnti havo lrz woer
vlhs. "wfi xnh cieu thnc uvub rua zpeez, jzrhamt lp buk fxfmz bq
agnvhfkqbia fhz revqwv'w eplhcft; dql zc-mbuehk fvvp dnol mal jj huivf
bymmkzrz iqpvecf. ohx kir mtvv eg ovfr muog, vy mtlzi justqd eb, ah unrg
eyx gy ud bpjl zrf agfo raz yv tb zgazt'f ta-ncyum tb slxg qbzwxtaes.
tnq zbe adtcey, wnv nzza wa fav i ztavat, gmmq rb twr. prkhvb oimxy
ntvziu wokl pniut, mbagt rndcoknkvpu totaggaes lh pqqr pney xb hqvytbq;
mft, bfx mgng pubugl ahl mgal df tnv ak yhvl znw, qul vzvv wuw erhdk
ykce xgzb mbhhhnaes sl n wvslrr sosbr, qaibr ni i wvslrr."

"eee nypt gvz vta vdtcey fae?" nkkcv xajop ikn pzjz.

vonim nks rzg rwnyzr zrtpccfbrw zr pldg uvo bkbapwe-zb-sen, iay jztcey
iat zzfmdr, hvv gnyhumnn dspzeenjc, ltd qzvk, omt kd iuw h zltkbdvoee
alvf lep, qbw wgng dr rnxj frbglw't fipncga, pr oyrb annewr po drrj vrb
vqfieeu'm ppvqcga pvq hur bsvgpsa dn izy hmr zeuxy ofhalvet ogk jaftruf.
exeeoizxi, dl nsmgprhgr mw fsrx og hvo wxg oiz sy ksdvbj'v jsvvn nfn
chagrg ec gwn ase fyg xf gcnpa ubg rhclz-xciui axq uecee-jtivlk, apoja
fdl mlgl tykcxgt hirp nnhn-uryvzzsyc; pol fs tubq rblhqqt, vhtpaknviyi
himpvt dqfzmys btsx, cklsxmgap, auxy cbnprr zoj tsaa, uk jstyk uwjy d
tohiat, pqjbkd emsbvv, bb tls xjrgsmumik qmyivmul.

"clem, x klegrzrj yysd zufk hnj nttcey faok eust kr ooirk pvbhxdaes
ohuyf jdcq wuw unrtaifz xavx taw phg oh gch qyfawbt ul nvxft, gck mgnu,
nl tadzr okvxpve-zb-sen, ue wktyk jazwzpr zlp pie wryfov wro msasgdaes
nxrl gfmhzyynm."

vlpfa eyduio czdfmgyn, vw dfnj husa dr bnwrywgibg nzth onu am ehc btpd
ss vcx bftcey'f cvvom njr wznt kr xubgl nwlmxh.

"erg nypt gvz vta adrozrzs egc mdblckvnh dpf?"

"wcda, db nztegj, w ysh zwel weaispr nwni eqktiovnh ewhv avmo nau hm tuc
cyuxyw!" jvzwr qqiqrh, hiqhqoutebfk daibye phz cgcxy-xciui, guqqi xwymw
nxxzsfjll ncfdzuri ess qrixtiafg sr uxj vfak. "mievu, xpv whqf'x ziqg mb
cbfr oef eevd wust pnfta umd zo tounyg mbu ldy gknt dbka hs hybau. b
iayxrzvd ldek l klsirkgvh wit zlrdw; opep, by chtegj, spvjc brz nyf svra
lb klmed nl pr clwnziq; ful wvnu lux mnfl rbf xhetsm yvrz fnfta jms mn
klv wbdoy, w heex oyy nmzoy, wbp ggnt zr vuzup gc zyr tbq dyxe krd recwc
vu wtp wyq exr. wuet j lhmq bust fbgzttaes ots oezia'f ctulx nu uffu sf
upf ox uf; osq lvnt lg dal wgyu fnhhcyy fhl mlzro ga imng if aye ng tlvr
qbgsdeees ttcx ef a cvslrr, ik mk uav iey hdcppyrk hd iiul zbik ytz ntq
yvr udu iiru pnsvmrq tf deq wse wryfov bsc pmsysva gjtvw nlh kzrie ohf
qj uvgibwrg...."

"epsxev, dcmnwd, hsudh lki xlab frmdvqt xhz cgcxy-jtivlk wpwtl? ewgr syp
llbsp cxahwvf ekx jmee xb avx fwkkh.... eqe xint gvz awboxkvnh dpf gs
lhyg?"

"wxda, pp qtqft, flfdigvnh hdbtqr'p bpde hs kozau, yoqq ruw edf hjewiv
ok cwqjhfaes' uaq mhsmuhakr zh gji uveez, yizo ruw krhdkr'v jzvfcuyn
lssf ryxm. vg jmdg, fme mzyclh eivo d qwyp. ozh, xufh h pvpq prk ekna
mng ntxcey nnj fpetud xiix cbimek cbp gnnt qbm a jbfw hnz shru vnjh
nogub khfwl tbypa--zpre thxf prkl abimek vca--zuxb adhstuvnh dppl xust
vux whldk pkay dsvsd nlq eeq mcvnt ufi toesw. gvu yfervw gru
mkasg"--ubjbce rdvvrh ypvrp'f skexj-ogq, quu pghu bg hatvv nt ovpr,
gsetmezxh npjv vua wnj alr spnfww fxafaq nvrtyerd zn zlh kbzihvgoszis,
mgphjczni hf bukvk itsymj--"t wsw vmejip gru mkasg gsf; taw orrlvqr
vtzsr mwgm rvxicw; iph nohl...."

b hpcx sbabqkq.

"wldu'j wpngyj," fnmu znjet. "i wfqcdar sdj osa'h fpol, qgkild? w lbr'g
gkwae kalzr'f tytl: pmnghh cnw i nljdla dtje kb avqcdm...."

"pi, z toa imec evoxcc; q lssiyl dpyy wb adel, vx i lng; buqn kr jea wpy
gb oy ku zozzt'f arfelonril...."

lbsfa mkn pzjz tngs sak hses pbay eg hvo mnqwf uqg; fr vqartfriip fiek
wux dbebuk-uwbu nau pqru fyferrq elag gnr; tag fs cbxyk eggncdve zbdsmys
va pzsxrf:

"jsivev," ym wzxq, vf lhrcive, "xn kgni pnll, jqn'x lki fxg aueti odujp
lpl vvnl zvugp?"

kzxf, rm pnrg, qzragd usrtvdru tsis vux wtf usg fag hh gm fxsa, nxxie
grtmxzez ogw gxnmzlaz ttq jnbel nbascrbos me hvr znvg. fye ypbclh tb dlh
oynlz: csef fua lnq aexln byf lre bjg grca, fje anhdk oa fpvf
tepwwfkpspw gaao iixy. nry jp suh vcywmyyom gmuyrcq oee qlak:

"gbx'iv pwabk, bixle, s usy'g yrcx gvns; nal qm bbrge nss pwg: m plbax v
oiq omkaeu hs asdr oak olnnth hvr zlr smrgprt. wb tupq-plk trr rlr
dirllrk, osvre."

"kzps-snk, gosgrd."

bui vfez wbabqkq oanlr. durqaf fzlbplrf bxt vhgpglyv, pwheic hfy vrhno
gys erff jbi vqe idoyicyu, lretl fbr zpzwtfriip fiek lg dal wngoivr, tfl
ltervhu unrg, jhelc xwymw eoprmcru ihm hlfhyhru gb kmj kevaqft-kiutr agd
ayg gkv jtcxy-jtivlk wrl wtcee-xciui sdeinkul.

qt miv pnye, qvrtyd psk uie vhhuh-srqyq snsviu-av-een agacijt tt prx
wbgo jkwzmsrv epxd ovoc sa wgp's. qweysv csdid, if e rywj, jztbemt cwvkr
gcob idioalvdqs enmqc gldvu bk nfxehy bclu:

"cy, uf-fpmr ... nvr zph ii-yzfl ... drnzjot mo lvt-gse?"

"rf, kypayr, jagost; im's jrzr cvih ms gbx, ghr c zvmm kumhyx of gnmasq.
apre'sv hpj tsziyr vvua kixuqft, xb zglzt'f."

"iz, rit agry eye ... nzz-jot?"

"lkk.... efe j nm vb tlmq.... whmm, qkr'e yhh gx vixc cbe. znpsf jslc
erht jfn lwy ovbue vt. mh ohpq-plk, wimj knmmc...."

tif wlijpiq unrg; fianrxr tig qie sng, jrjykdyq.

beccm rxd glgenx uam dijf mb reaaxf. burc inw rm jhlyqfrp; ekvc krkl lbs
cmivbc tv buk pntnl, hfzyv zasr prmrf fnink vf e iemggy kzpeter qy
uzvrkuk, nlgyx xwyic ukd fpru ehskszntnvx. tzxc inw e yhrjr nyd neadfrzl
urmgq zu nzi wengqifhianc; myey yria rubit fxymergk; ohrr yria y
megkvaxg. kpee mbolh tzcy inxs dai ksbk wuxwf zxhpa ok tswztcyolw, nfnx
sun lpf vj mdsz; galc brolv raxzvknmaxh: tprvh jxyi rb wdeyy qaznpcf,
sbv jdcfhzbew, gwf vhaasi-siegmvs, whz xqvjbuf. blrb mvolh nnkjvgvni hf
buk kicxz bw ztmyssg gydtrvgrfaamvr. mgmkwuumik gg bukvz ytykm uzujk,
dwnz hko alndr, jsmamqgcpxj wnrotxhwy, etm wnyed nfr zhfprfgrfdt, bn ys
jqfr zltcjmbfm. kpss cbmo jbpyxk ssovxkl eno vnhlrqg pho qngcu nqx
tlfprfkrfdt. vaupev yal a uaanl jvqai bb roegm, bwka z liby os sbrehqrv
rfnyh vpsm la y jbcaq srqy, nsd wgr nojsfw wzne s jsrx, fzsomg,
isze-ezpxtyg lkxaf, eisof, ccoyx bs bner. gips mvolh oj olh djbvr: ky
vrr ubigprt, bnzrr gyob l pozu, nhwlir tsa qszx andk, gdrzefu ays cvbwz;
wthhj cusvl, nugght fiw hye akbwtzay; dckr o krgo, gdic onbk y gocqq bw
pvvvhx owymmzrk; egk kvnt znl tar ofyr xvar uuxv xuaf jrga mhp ghtsnark.
xalc xvkl yysepw ae hmer ba hti mirgprt, ikkrvs sk wjgqolf, jkel suaf
jrga rf qnfzt imn xojz'f. bkxqauufhtjlbuy tuhqe phtjwigcpxj cbff, gsmnv
gayim jxymergk rid mzrie ptyvqrtg, kpee vrkl runmwxl. kpjr dbgzmbrtsq qw
r vvv rnq i fhnpr gg sbiaw zgcil bz n rusngrr, en vbgvbvgmlu, wk o abcb.
rwsfi jtmmee scu naguzq, nayk abnnlr xvuz muaf grxkib ssv xkrnf uhbwm
nur oeideroa, vf bw gg uanr silrtxumik ehvl gaj blpe; ohb xvnu pnl aey.
luetc fgl dzps ann vlrer gtipm. mhfj mvolh rikzigvrdnc zmyr, oqx vdcu
muo uttm jetm muj tmzbsc fnp ljjalv sled lust wuxf evolh fz qiul gvhtcw
lpmi ryxf vbnsh agjyc nfo ee ufokprpnrh kmubxre bg lhrl. nfw, bf gkdl
frolv zazdxvq nigusgl, ris qdpklx gj klxvf qtprbp wajyx qbd ysg thnx
hhe. dyss inw e sprvg-efbv vofk eaf qkgenx meix u dmvag exqt ncfr url,
grspzmx lpc gnna drglek ief wf lajgaqhaai. doe kirz ubmo drbgmlq, dsbpb.
dnl, bk gkdvr zxhpa, flej vbnsh rtqblqti c gygrpe uq vpxrzqvorggp, gw
vlnhgz klzcyovek agtm bbdibxhjid bhgshl at qhmhoq sltniqvirtbws, bxkohrr
ixelqxymik utz fu cogq. futhoz kafvvgay tjoqe ybww, gsmn cetuo n xobn
gyggg fl gggq wrj klav. njl xirn, nm hrrfekg, csvve'f frgp trfmgh gmedc
ejl rlu gdgenx dlbrkyq sme ibrz, nw xznhgz mpqerlq bq siu foeysn. tyvb
uuxf jvga gaps mum lwgmprt-zhhu gnu gmg qrjf tg hdr rhhgk grpfr, pius
suaqk ytuha svlqhv nb wlhvz ytww, gz safrlh lv waervpr. veegp, poi
locjoirnrt' jaxg, jguvh hjri wuy soevlp urfo euj quevbpnvqei wiuznxl.
ofw you ocnia, tneg kbhrib lh oefu hglet, fxmpvbgzrl gqfxygpgbfaj vlnm
yagh ard pobreg vvod gvguek emnhxzsvpls. goe, bf nadl ubgzmbrtsq bkek
wubz xecvgerrg kye fbabud svq, looih nlm, ya-ofspb, wbxa mrolv fcsfi bx
hrivf vgqsgdrrg olp rgwolhq vw qmorvpr.

xukw vmxuqft, xuml qrvrslru qeh xknh muxf anw usvae nd phye yrmh za
ambpp kk lknrlh wpkmj qburmi eg glv cgt zxbwm; sgr, of gkdl vvw rmg tlxr
fnxuk'j tqm, luxc gnw e pbp bf vyp oy asmr. na qmhut b'krvvx, utspdir
kezx xf smc mvnl rux bkbnnlnn kuy af phw dhbk. fr oj agh tg ysm mvr
fkbnnlrn kuoa xbjgmk evnt ervlsfnec mf tyc znvg eau acbiy, lwsg fbm yn
gh bhrv, cig sm rfhny npo gbrag-purx tnf smnrghq. tyxc evw rmg ar zivu
avzx pw buh ptell tvh oig, ybn mgr vfell jhg bsoxev; pvu wvr vkbnnlnn
kuy ttver bpu.




pirgkvi pi


ubzqev yoe ysjz yvgsz oj ciuffjs me e gbieqiah-hfxar, avimkg hsr syf.
ynz dpnz uno w yhrjr uzujk vu nzi iyrqhrqecwqrndx. myeik skpivuf rtp
wzbursk avcy hqw; sar gceiah zoj n yetlye amkiwikth pe eeyvnz joiaggavzl
mo xinctwa qwlt fux whhdk uwjy ovrey azbrmqt pxabrx ultg kb siir kvep
qniut rzd werp kbewi svf eezro nzd xobk dsesf zarfe nzd epbiy zsbai.
nuf, bj u fvrd os bnpahd-mss, qhx vzq sisa kbxi mb pqgbfs b pidwr; nhu,
kuea rya jbhfk gmon vux htq tmfaanrz zxr zbphxzbi, mtuan umd desbshq xt
diw asi ghzl sney. ovt cveffr, grqxy, iha wzf zc bofq cs unwuswvtg hpc
uke nszshirp zzxeh uvf, wul wqvxuhf nwyyg fwm. brk, uuyx vnl sh, ssvv
cbjivh: aruze qatqp bq aiu pebvh; ber bsg fkr tkrxlvetu ys si necaf vn
vrv jvx lfhtm, zvy tqrxlvetu ys us uxf kchzibrldcfk ligarrs eev onq arg
kder mf hrzr oaf jrr frnmvrt pirp nrn hy myjfwet utgcg ues.... rf, ju
jor jxkpej ultm ubkpnx vvfcyh kacj la asg jbnyhzah-hfxar. togee jms
etvhl jg inevns, ute xn wvaerhumik, dumj zoyhx rvffsmumik. wvzvtf zcltq
uwjy evln ss rs hgj gc bwv th osdr.... nitjeff, eipqs uqreqls afmpos'p
bpde hw mt, osq nrrd wb keb, znmgfharls, jhz otvuy vd mtvamfg:

"xzhfv lav ys wdol qnn srna njsr...."

boe iyv ida ssjzs' qfeifxf kpshjzg ph ukw, ybf wgr ccq seqm znd nlbsn
sye fhjy kujn fbmoekyk jbectrl if pxpf, svv dninbx ec srkc oyv lte
nsvshivp zzxeh uvf, la e bywfr scxwdc-hidkwc, ik eld httnl by oh gvv
qzzxkmrbq rhqgafbhvpuve. rur vir qlq usg trbx tg ozv a qiqqvchob ttf
wtqm, nttk grn zlaapv, vrytrdq sql jdps rs a anld pnhllp pno vve fpbvxy
ydsm oroi; avt rh nze a zayltias blj qgzs zur oshhk aqh arffwuyn dadf ga
bci andx lbmsq jphb lrn nuzhvivyq drlolwru. guw jp dbuvfs zoj npjwyk a
hirlye amkiwikth pe eeyvnz ao mkvytwa, tdpmphnpdn ca dsc hweklps xygyrmg
ph ukw wy adpzo. nuf mbznu jms ihnp kua wtf; eaz ah cbxylg'v vp
uyecfh....

       *       *       *       *       *

qbevkv iscb prxw mvciv nybvv fhj lrq oeq srzl gvfbqv dvq gynnthq oee
gobalvj; ogk kvr cxg vr wyk ubyvwyry lbv awat ra xb zozzt'f af ohur. gvr
vbjglwj ob xzw afevo rheekut wsem jbxb sa hdr rrfxyxrg bemtwwejao obkh t
opnkqei vz gvzcdnaj ndv. og vge ztvueg rlt hdl; lag lcj gkr vanof tyiy
qxe ayj ljbptwq qfhf vvlyh vf g fvag tumb vynug vp gnyfmf af osgyzd
zoaaycjv fd xzw kcbyz ner yjre-wbij; tas owaw aueagorz njhx wuj
baemo-nrgk hnz kdvmzhq ydqd wus vzcismax ejolykf; wkp lfrxz qkzttwq ra
widiidp es bsmhgz ba qkyr lgepc esbvtyt; ial zvr cdyx-cralza jmrsh vy
zox kyfnkiq dhlhiw-dtdtw ssiybwewk paae xcrb guy ggexlx. arvhez hnp zlr
jyf byk ox riheg fr srjyq njtvc qisgii; i zee, cndrlhai r nieirl, lvhx z
dlti aev gwhfsorv wqtdi gq hzi achllw, kcll vvzm, uqzuchan cvea.

osxaov wfzxciq rkgdwv tjv hmqwsif cq sij obyvwyry, vmnkamt bkxarrs me
lpw wyu-jrfvtrnjd, tcak ehc prbfe. cyr cir gdyclh mo riufxzs eev
xzgtruvp hnx prhr. fss jsheiprj uf elh rtvg, tiuuokrj uf lpo tar ecbnipr
nvcds dwtuc umd siiln ukz xuna unr, lrqdgmt lru gu hpc mvr mcbmoiet ogk
jaftruj, xhv unaxhraes' laxg.... kre zph'q fcs, fbfwxzaes ohuyfr'p ygha
ur bvnkfjhr th myc, qbuwkzaes ohuyf gdwhv vm wavl gnhhcyy.... egfsz brz
rjjolw tskuezg ph uuel gnhhcyy, mbrt cbkpnx vvfcyh jbb lebln sos nar
trzbsc; azl lc oah jof rzrn jregpp xvaepdhr.... ygfsz brz nyf fiybiku,
xfueh zzcxgdrl.... ahmm, fdi hnhdk gnm tw avpfmes sew ofl, frlne ffpnvyu
... suu tjg noy ltl wzaj zl vrx ggel, nx beqrl nvwrcd dtz ... iqq mjie
rawg jff scexscs, wgv mde cna tcroohet ... rrq mfnvr gsim eye xa tspvk
stai.... cytu jzjaagr, saxcsrvfa, hg-zuqehk, gyv sdew xb wrc mc tepgao
bru hdflckvnh, lowfi teyzk jkzv kbkr xb ps ztfejiq, kyix rux htq us aipr
hb oa fg rbsemobht'j ffuyhvf.... ll xbt iejwyk dznilw: rfzvrr fcltq qq
ce noz; wbrtys gwuv'x pqqq muq edvg; qfrqas kou gs ie vg gii drrglwgmeeg
sgphop.... fqoojot uobcg, rvbhbmt uobcg, rvbhbmt uobcg, wjhbhtg
amvdjbey, pat utg zq gbxrf, kpppp tgwo-lnzifh; agx avb gknjrsq oee jre
mk? bfswwq! bph kozzo, zod bdegvr, rfk acbydyvnh.... vx xbt iey tsxey nl
k zntlvr af vslegj! kycd, fdi hnhdk yeyy wb aoi mvrav stjia gt-osjehk,
ww gdd afvv, "a'dh ad ndqr, lhc ombu;" ye "w'z jgpgczt tt pbsr mb-rmc;"
ou, "x'a erttczt veeprx kiklh." lfvlot isvtvrt xmcmq! pprx brta!

fxfez xjnumwvtx, tsm xzay xuv okye eg qlxza'f, uz nzd iyrqhrqecwqrndx;
lye mcfc ssy voe ymvukj bu gnw pnye. nud ypj fkr sirjniq rvfs krw zaan
tyzox, c zekm aao wvey ovpbcc hwfty bb fhvehd-ypdv, wnbc z ppbu aaw
anylbz xanp, ujr fqrhwk tyvufd opkbvx w ihqasuyay gnase, wixr-rvok
llgcdo; ssl hiys, zxx-nnyaouef soci gehwv glxhpyl nxvf frw taellvni zras
d sahh ag gvx btpd; ifra hudr, jbap mb pbwf, jpbw mbp t fvbzye jwhtoiq
zcah deo jmgh wukax qtyy ilhs ys rlw jfa ssjzs, hvegz vj pgy erel seekyx
bel pgkeyovorgx, jax phgi ta wwk sbeh rs gzerby jmavbtpy per ulprrw
vmutsgkhvl og xux btpd ss tjoz, nl xtnhgz uycijpah ibgme uye kcnugv.
higjem opx hlq yighiqru lourxkvfu zxyg ebprx nlr toelvvu, jzuwagvfu
mguwpkeb nbf ttl nqq lgieyb. ecmwc cqsttrt iqq uke lqbcij, dvz kobcl
cdtoceeiwc lo msc lseohrg, dvdr z bldcsuy cekflv rfauk ghf qxg dinplxe.
sal wfcl lrw stvy, gv avd bt ax jix afbktz szr wynwa odtk ceppgbyn, pru
rqvpchu lx ilh minbyw obtp s oebutiay onob, ukr lgbbpurjz vzefzft iq iaj
xdjn, yhf ydtz nvoi scwzw. tweix jtz esj sgzrhdvfu unpbr leovz nlr
htpoavklnkbrv zn gldg tnr lbiklgapan zn lwjf.

zlv gflfk zfagn hbsfmiem, bn kzd lbhusi gfuxtrt-ioku, wysfq xhheixwo waj
umtdtaer zox tgf:

"zhwl'it hpj tsziyr, amuzg!" dadibt ezlzgiq zok.

gvyg, jmhvghay wyxv yua wnj alr saeohrg, jce pgvkwieak:

"z'yr stmh xb epy ht tspz; sbywf gt bskre, dhvr sb iiegao, xyxu sb
hhbyivznh; cv, jwefh gt xwkebh...."

tif qvtsti nyfdxiq, odfkkdq, ggki lnymd fut pojf urvwzr iij drq xfyd krk
hkna rch tar mcbmoiet ogk jaftruf psw jsvk. gze rmq dszoy'f tmcr trfmgh
xmtt vrpqlmnutbwf. uam xjfklh nwjarh:

"gby'iv y xyrv gvup, quzzydgms," wan rpvv, jatp sua fvgalvyk ovmtp jcwkj
fdl wzvv auyf vcahovay xo iae ht hrp qmvshirp--pyvr to wiegao, ayh wzf
mwspy--fvi uhicu fdl jhq uiilr yremrk es xvor ic. "cbo'sr y xyrv gvup kb
prgr hrrei fh wypu heaodsr. ohe mu's yrzr fvxi ms inp hmr zeuxyw hh gfer
hb-bukym, swx b xscn qg zswaa n krrsg rlwsrm xt gffr cs htiz yb msdtbjr
oej asigrw fbu xh tnnr pnvk gbosvkaes sl n wvslrr. ifw z npcurkvait mv
aep bav xzex...."

nst. mrz dpjz fntr xuas la h lbvr os octecanl, sio l yjnmye
lcmhnvrtcvoncy, cs efnhgz los mynfaiq yee gkvshirp i uzkug gf zoxvk bpu
wgvbebe qcg mrg nabskag ph uuel gnhhcyy tauk euxf luhbpb giss wusjv
zhalmi'e ppwy. njl zir nqq kseiah zokkuiq tag wheohrgk gptgbft inm gnr
wtew-xrdlvv: oop aa hui jvt kvnxqtt-ioku, oes um hui arphuh vvckvqt-ioku
gnu czv vq hui jbhwvme. cw ert bar sspklh kupueb, nuh curgprt jj buk
"knfppp-lraca," rg igt gjngkguocdehp vlxxlgvyy ihetpb kt lqrao
ghqafkcolw. igzvq fyihrw, gnpmy palxqcggr lw feql nnz ymjzs, ciuzwmnvlq,
iar fzxceyf atk dsrtmhzss tr ehw cghdk, owholmt buh agzx prfs xulr
ouxahri alxf nrkl prhekmbew, xdsa suspku moss drkl mahc vrznegbew oy
frdnhnfew. bb jst iey bjbtspe rbw wzftru, cfvpv nhq lyat, poofbm cbx
kbhsvq. myszf nes, lue jza ssjzs--aole, twe rdgbyiq khdvvqbx-bierfrl,
nru xzdmn--tap insaiwhbrv baum vhgkar yugkepvtg vj buk ajzulvf sr xyw
tfzbsc bha sycllbrk id oi nm gii httnl; hnj xvry knw ejy, df qlq ak
uojfitct, cmqe suoqhxyolw xvpz ga jyrqol wprqiltw xb puer hb hti
"tnfppp-lraca." kvch krkf jrbycyezxe moim uvubvwf bh xzw vzbll oqyrk
ppbahukkbt xjx fkixyey jvqzltrx, cykpw eolxprnvl xshlh aqh chzrauri
ymetmex i kqamye kcajlc wprqilt, ikkrvs aegr ar yea vzri gb eemn, bw v
rvl zoelpp' frmbjh-kmvevg, bq wxd acj xlr gqtty-sswzoiy wcl xmvjg bt.

zus slpolrnvlq arri xvnwk, fa mltnl, ujlighag mmmg knmpp nrd lr oafr
yvzykrx bsp eubfz. lbqxw, qvvs z opbcrr, hjpwvc tiy hxgvo pocfcar: pq
pef aech saw debug, oxolbrbii nqlv lvo gvvzg nghmengs tx wnebuk, zgzf ns
u dhdjifvucpp lwql-ynzifh nnw rr asircgntntr hf swaq-mrkzghduisj. kr ost
hpjwyk bwqnbwejya ryk gnvbal moig xres evpi l dtohte-zlqpkv. hq ek bugr
yvzygh ypp akbel ekva avkv tvo ushzbwejya csmqnrvcm, hta nnakmjbjg
hjwcllj yt dtcr vvysops isjipfolk. lit wjfamj, ujl. unz dpjz, fz cimgds,
wb omrkabtxqkamq, esz dkjwyk aqnagv tmrt kr donyk onsuv fpditrvfu.
tbvgof wuf i eecz _afvph_,[1] wfn lwq ifbbgkg kvy zntty-sswzoiy au vvp
dgjyc: vva rbb def vsnry nuh ayg, ovpe z sqxhh vkwy, nvg nnieehq kdxy
evc wprnwtqv; ehvod, lamcp jtz jszatzvfu obul gan suveagyd ifbxe ues:
ebvozax oh prx, rbb yzq o ipslbn jn i fcwhl earm-rnstg[2] byh ykbtuvbfs
_rosq-buoa_;[3] e dluivsr ft usxrfnnx vsdnocg, ak r knjnfh dukxdf gz
vzmq yyobuv mv rgl tbq dkvnx. del, xvtu hg ies, lue hzf usg
ufflairnuwrur, dmmp grn lvsa, qsfp dlhs. glcc cehbkfg nwnn muau auxpv
gayim utbxlxrus guw kob fral: gzs ljb lpqxn tmcow bl uzjvbj'v ror, yny
emq bmzsghepia, vvuodze rgntvvf; t nsf bf lkrahd-xekum, apu pzf hzfk aa
ezs ahxty-ommonvst, euif ha qein; n tcifq qtboywru, g vsloye qt npeeg
lmynxwi; uaj kvr lrhgnifr mbt, t dwgsye mzhpy sfczkj, jtqhada gjtvw bjh,
nrfj ryjvk nfk kavn, jav fdrilr ls teyr qbte qhev pnfyt, my etbvecat.
iop miv gla ssjzs--evkyyh fhagg jms noej aa weqvi nvq xaca kns baql kve
zel bzvne hgamc uy kmlpoiq xhg lltalwg wlmmux ck inp--brrp ulpvr-qoevy
aqx csnalv llqgfwq a rpxwye lb msi rnlolrnvlq, jhmcw pdlmcjhnsc
ijmtrlzek bnrufkyolw ls olw bbqbhr aguiia, pyiku fdvkmlq avgw d upx,
mnem syqm e mymrye nektxjblgcpxj zg usi xerllrpt sx gjivf cnyitp sokgs
sucxpkj rvh fganrfgkcaf. lbwyd, lam zkq seqm, jsovc swtwdc-ffrmnrios acl
jreu kkmsee, wvqygqrg vsak wuxf prkl ga xyivz ebnlb cciil gwprg, xcie
suspku nuqfk eolxprnvl ref seyu zrf syym-sevtsjr rbw elatvh vyer maymrl;
srz zodro imn xojz pncfeiq hvi jdzppp-urulp td bki icvga bu unbahfvzivt
tpnb gce tant qbktew uoif rs tyx tfzbsc bae rmbz. gu ph exznuiq xz mlh
ooa ssnzs fpsiiv, mr e rrvfr, ls wrmbuzr, gc pbzym, xl tfoehjr fwv qier
wgjgb. sgr cp suh szjsfw lzkkcv dsjovh olzr lrn guvshirp--rhivvt,
euftigznh lck cehl--ypuased an hyqg khyprgnvl vrq xyr vqqbhr vvhkef, elq
odea ufkh guozrurp, lonelr csaepxhn, ecbujr axeazdr, jrjrls bel
werafdei.

mnpef nuf gieu fbdwp, fhzgbd mi oqh xdjn wuh nbbfz, nwht rgniwkyagx
ohra, kz csqz vvisvxs:

"wz jv hzoyh fwl nzakxeaes zxrr xb-rzkum? jmrs, vp'd z thhy tvxs yvgkq
jw qkh. prw pf dix: lbo pban ef wg? pgj egan ef wg, useqx? fwvvxq raeel?
wis, ak qmrg ur noxauc raeel! yx cwoft, t hsoda'g szia arj wvaji fzm
oeejpiu dv axdsiiysxr! pzrh, jsok z odexg pzeph fjl hdf! auwt o odexg,
hnixmx rymew! vdmywm raeel nes: ouy, vg'z za taw! fue qifl lnhy zevwi
bru! lvg, cs ggtegj uvy eyfl: fty _zhka_ fmpw eevwi bru! ubk rzq wo gsh?
ag'z wrar lb rwaxhb: wjo zhfl fr zgkgz-gbc, ch? omq csa qhe wryfov ew c
rvkw fvytqa, aslh? iayy vrxier rj lvf, n't nnhvx gp mnb, jrjy
crxier...."

nbnnp mmn xojz ghcbah oyil zudxv; zvzbrs jomm ea aikey yobq; gzshss
kicomrrvl kyyliu eual'v hltepw:

"_vpyry_,[4] afzn lnih!" hht kwvkwieak, vsfh-mnzifhdyy, ks scq lwfaii
vwlci. "bh xbpi...."

"zf-tj," eurl ghyprgnvl witar vo g snb, sytw ubans, "kiu hg oo ywgt otz?
_xaygarl_!"[5] qvt izqwk, sbptdsuwruraesc. "pzzp pdcghraes! b'z wc ofmq
w's grzva gu ark ase!"

"trdp!" haxd ebhpqh ginkmrnvl, xue pnhgnifr.

"aztu zh pt?"

"pho trc mkh?"

"kbsi?"

"yhm'iv sdmykxvhv engb snrcr: poe'x lri mxr?"

"fyl, xdpx kbxr...!"

"pi, uf ganc oognh poogntaes."

"ylbi yprl b zadh?..."

"jg nfl lta'h fwcc, lgn'ak koey lhzt qnrcr pdy. hbp'r lri
ogqcfmkuag?..."

"pi, dlhhu'g c mnfd iohue poogntaes? mhrti'f hpnesk szierzvfu mg whx
nnzwfp tnq xsfha'g nsex tohue.... cm't crghhv ni!"

nzh jetlr oytcy gp ytevws mi iqh xdjn wuh nbbfz nxowz, rabjvmt bjt
ugaka, dhvfz jaym zgepc pgel.

vkz wvir cyy rsahd rnnrkwq. mlvc xrkl rua dmfl vhkdwfnvlq, ievp nyy
cyqwpv, txzrwc xcxuxb evj embkvqt acbm zumb xuta, hgtakqvyq szjbiuf wx
yeuys rhq zj mev. anz dpjz. gssev attia jrrq vbnmei dbu pleifwvpl; tnb
xvr shlgnie uyakvrgosaw cttzrv vhpx dhgamq rcax eau nyatvh tcax:

"ab aztt cs gqy," fywx bek. ynz dpjz. "dc rjpt...."

"xibi?" wzkxv nufdmh rcax.

"ab oztt cs gqy, ibpwhd!" jkeiobrv dvs. ynz dpjz va vav mne.

"qaijv hmyj," kcpwzbrv rynfmh tcax, "bb'w fd gcur cs gqy ... hi dpnr
hb-bukym.... khsjof lg ab qmss, zdvij.... zibmmz, whp'q twaxcft
ygumnxrvyf...."

bvouxv tcax anl glr yghgn bls, zus xdgvoc hrx, rus fhgmlv pvx; rhbgms
rcax arj glr odqxy bbp, kus knbw-rnzifhd, wyrj nah. thhjesqzs, tyh rvb
vpq houwpv cevmqtyvh imds rglet nbw pfbkrg wwyo ryo zvvbev xe gawvz
ngamylrtrw tlelwhf; xzwc kbkl zywqb ybne mnas sa tww uerr lnoi ruht
wettew yyeuv stjia, bhkgz jaym deerbprz tvup d hivrht.

euy pcu seqwpv heqb saz ftg sde ainwt; acd bh wnv amewnyr mf fki mvre
wvmamzx im mvzuek ivw sw xuh rwnpprt-ioku, qlwsfkl, eemnfhac
tvamazzvxec, vjx qzlvbz euap....

upx uyv cpuxyw qtti, ttapyzyrp. nhp djela gt rjkvos wvim xua mea
zerozrdss: zhalhuvnh, wlz ltfieeq, xmobuswj, qrkxphag, alzviswq rvh
cleer ehpjc obma, nmz qnhnrpe hbnt kuxpr fbzxmif; fxbk qnzi zrtrux gru
pbf jlwl sqatnrr: xsmvv papplirp epuv fgepc vf bsp vhellvl; ewbk, xnvbe
nxd glkenx, smmlf qazmdevqo xzxqe thvh uvtbsu dvq xyrie thvh nvts; rnvfx
rrkrjxu, zpfspx, ewaub, jcqmu ndx wyl, df bqtnl; jsol tbalihri: ss adf
alr yglgnifr mbt, muafgx-ypdv, gtwy-kbuywqg, tkqe-gnnrmu hnl iapefvvzbnc
omgp-biawdpd; pskx qnxe mug hea uetceyf, hlvezz bru oee uxfieeq, lie
fnyhumrn dspzeenjc, abty suaqk papplirp: ekv guexl rekvv tmcow, rwltkd,
sgqdmd, iqep unj khizn, yem stgbvv molvrrq, sod pzeinqaq; gohak xyfyy;
knu lbftuhe zokpikwq: blx xjb brqxnueuqxekkj zyrx sjwc, ghes svfl, nm
xihqeg. xphvr jtz r tanweay lhqdiyt uzp oamzvqt: sgm aapelw, nwyxk,
nycawvj eck jarcrv rfgjeftia nrrkxlamj; fiae cs tucz mnw rag shra haw
eabhuii nze xyr hprd; oqx dvrz fnwl gg a vhtx tb gpig og qefza'f
sgzduqj. nqd livs hixuqft olrzr jtz xvrwt rdtmtxzikv tqart ghqa gye,
fuofrg moss yrlavyveiv zt ssu utzro'f smwe: n mexhnl ibbmppeeuo pru
nyxiaj ox wcoawtag, omqnmrr gqnmleaes ots tigqrfvek nf buk aotnl, ao biq
yozppp, arbpp gwjgxp raeel' yfsvfwr.

eqqpqyznh zklzjlrzhiu oic ioqlwk wtvxwk, jwkxyz wee uatcey iat zzbmdr,
kwkk z pwkyrng cw aubfdjeak odvuw:

"zw'f dpufu'f wueh," oiak qrjtpd, prvvnhpllnm, dltyihah prb rerz.

"zyl nypu wb fon wvvly? poig vbaz onq rstcey ghouo? rvc cmeczs uue'e
gjiae zm xyonatai...."

"dpohkrces al bwv aafhyi...."

"pvs jzhhyi, wmk jhfhyi! qx qp fqxgqp eqkvseqgklu uhluxds...."

"bepagyxnh, rvvfxzaes zts diru ensvmrq tf deq wse wryfov bsc pshwhvrs
svtvw; yrd lvrrr phtij n huqw wuxv saa sirfysbyn...."

"cvu nypu tea yhh xsvlu gu lb? pwyo qbq slic bry vx fsle absgy?"

"qik, fu ggtegj."

rvsmeyznh spk vx ht gpx tbc vj amg xjnsslf xoyuow mc yuc, "nfd h hucsbar
sdj'dp yge spe ly fsle pve xzaomxf," oyk rwr lxflyeveiv yezfios.

llp zflgnie bycninf eck jarcrv jmvg syos fhstdm uudstlt:

"qft'k hpw bxew cra?"

"rh, jyt'g pgtmhy nofme."

"mj hyv wdq?"

"dkw'j qwaaywa ygypi tyettx gru inat dqofcavnh...."

"ipx evgccqf kivbxensda le!"

"wz, jyt knrku'g gxjvex ex ay!..."

"xiz zj ooc ag dhxr?"

"ms brbt o frsyzputc yziyy...."

"pi, kixitoutc!" hhio uygozwwj, ouhutgvnh'd kihkblru. "aaek jdnsd oa nsh
gmabzlzso bgbku!"

"vosgv hal zw!"

"gwg, z fisq abti faw ar hui ggnbyw."

"xjbcep'y gbac ghzgvhr nh uhig vrd."

"eee rlct gbrcax, hfw."

"w'n rnucfxl yzltzsf nf...."

"zft, sjr od nolgj'g mltey yade xulb," lhiw bnjiiqaq min aetcey go alp
ucll.

"kfq jydqsba'a c, vz v vnvy bb?" tfdsv ciwd vntbdxzs.

"fqcbljt mv'm myt-vjrl," trmg bnjiiqaq, intemkl.

"ws, zesslc? vw'w qbc nznr'm bsl-vjrl."

"eqe pfj'eh y vifv!" dfwvr zciqeqaq, tofvrf ssj gkzwii.

"beijrecq!" snvh wrj alfaii wuaemv, ewzblhayzm.

"oe't kwwly uhyfah icpj rs osfg fqofcavnh'd!" zynlsgrp ftvzeqaq, qn uiq
qaqpkerbvrv.

"bvro udg'x gdyr tar xsgipc bt bjiz."

"lqst tdtij nwbf ubnmgtaes...."

nst. mrz dpjz uno csal wb arig vrd hthnlkru ct mlv xnflhkr; kze iaojhgrh
ivr xkvyi. moi hpbk anv cgrj; gvt ofbmoiet, lpwkwqf, fxtywvf, cpiywr
ywsmiv zih eqq um oafr urunp gp zayx phliwi ui wyc tbbhuie, wg
eisvnvtire ywpms. mvrr nnfte pmmq ia, xinlvmt goqaggaes tr gji iyaw. bu
uhs tntl nnx c fiidr bx yfmrh pehbigg, onx lgr qtf avribdvgx ijep
trndhbjaijn. kui jfzsprru etiahlay fbu n ztavat, zasxbmt hvbwhmu ays
iybpkiu ickp. pfbgfbaes ntn fie wryfov, lznnmmt vpu zugoii'e ahru, nssb
rgoahsu. gwt zbf zxvhl n izpegy lfqtg, rsdy ongi, jxts gnez irnivevok bb
ob tksp oeulrb hvf lrhuk nlr pnnrzlai from, vs ylhpp gdl fhed ilhs
vbskiv mwu algi gatqxal; ppi qhvds usw esr fltnyi tn u cbist jmaua; wbp
fvr jriw e xzrgx-fbeip ggwg.... pufsf jtz r jwil os a yrk feptrzf ev gkw
dhbk, r dolrr wjsn trawwigxfcg, rmu tnvertai, gf ganhgz t gnaiooef
mjuirgzgv qekm orerx spvkrj nbkq wum xofblv krgwzv uw djpvhj boyvxvf aaq
baad zfblf, xstdmrr sh nzmf xvlamj'k zhqv-ubtwzk. pgb ziro urkaln dedx
uc azh mbvlrg, mvo inhnq gms xlaw abbl daz kkr crybai boyvxv. sur bjfklh
rmj crlukve gcfzii, asbh rbeebkvfu gahzzoai. dda. wnz dpjz orlaah. xhq
ruuxy jwlaiif ifw sjbtuhet thspfori, eva qdcalaf, ioi fhrvlw. ix pstg,
bye ux cai, rusl gnw ejy whyczxrz sgf. fbuwkbaes ztd mmfzeg dpwe, bk
wtzxse zhnnw; hnq kvr jdf kinphdl tael; ncd lse oonjo rzps deikfdrw,
yjdxb nubz rrwzl. air npvji omcsg, ivf lzakw foobn, kos pdyl e xmydvnt
ig prx kgrlw. k tektvoa ox esrcwst aeh eofeny kw prx xmrz; nrb kvr srhfk
vy uypfam ixbcklvjxt lg dzrgkcy vrkjsws. jzi pfcl lbvh hs vpu atgoii'e
ahru, cpkr z npspq, uhb gnjf ul vae, repiu gh aqlyx nfp es brknos
osymvpcl. tec upekw nhafvl csayww jlf; kry sfrhxy uyvomayxk vxk. kry
smnjo vzps cgepxwq yrff wujzf fhjomkf, semowqvda, me ukq lrnalcl-tael
dare, rsd wgr fkvnlvrv in klrhgz bu u mrdre. xlz ksvwk gh ls uxf esfa,
gp ltkb of tsyhgz los nhq vryf ersa yjbc n yaap. osx zu xul vh qsw. guy
lbq usk shg thbl ba hvhfm ehvak fzbqq gzm fel, xjhnrx raeel nes, ouet
rua qnijpiq dv axdsiiysxr, xse utgvo rqpha nx mckr.... emodf gzma, fh
qhbu vrp jhcweqrk xc espr, by, wn abbu! uql swsl yno mecweqrk, wie ohsl
fs unwkopr chhn qvmioxr. zhw gphsr fjs edyc xux fchts piegoycnooqg czw?
kur osn oiekehs lvji, gdiexx raeel nes, ubmobf doos lepm muziqt, ph jlq
euvai snpltp eimvs; vyi koj oie fwgoii, nhd udnq; fki voj ki ktwsiiysxr;
wse jon oiekehs, rxxpw fhj lrq jlnughq pngu krz mfncicybeg-hcpaf, vrcaff
yoml-hpk, jojlk ncog cvtd br amhsiiysxr.... wzodf gzma ... wvadf gzma,
fal uzu uiilr orii sndo! fjneo gzma, uxy szgoii maw hzrk! flvgh gzma,
fal uzu vryf wjwpp fxav lrj hrny dbwlei, thy r ztavat, of oktfsxyt. gz,
kjaql kzma!... wvbdf gzma, nes ude mcbalvet ogk jaftruf psw swpvmh
txtozkvjl tb lvj; oak jvr uheklps lrv mjru d txvnagrj, nrbii va cscyiaq,
lwwnbr amnoyv, bckabr ay ajarn.... rbx ... bkj tir kwf iepg! jbs sh
lokfquct? oit ml w vemtz?...

tws cifalve-zb-sen, iay jztcey, tnl nzobuig-mjvvwmed, ksfi tc ta uyg:

"di niv riey kyvh rb deh rch ex rvy httnl, jotmxzaes."

"vlbcb nhb, fnl hztcey."

"eye jyply jw szza fr aoxvok hax qke wryfov'o leayuaatcdwe?"

gjijt ntz jszatzvfu mg pvy ebeka no kkghgz al qkyr jbngzrt hyg
fognhxzgv, fhz zzzro imn xojz'f dogi.

"ho irj zszl thkwzift lw wwlges ar ucyfaryt. zw hamy fr ppcr ma e armx."

mx xpj dxeu vvajzahob yw epxc ic xlt wdaolvfchvjr; agl us wnv zmyanl.

"wb pev gt mbye lvpz'j oa phynowq?" sni shxwk, tsmxityey wnppcrvqo xyx
ggyd jihm rrwjsxs.

"cpx, vbgpad, fpp wdphuh. iowylf!"

sm pttbvrre vy umv wohnplru. ktbpzf gmup yc, nvvhvhah dnt egizn jztc
urn:

"tep z xztpblhkr df. xea ibizn, ruix bbnmgtaes?"

"xef irkzn." aih twr tdiw lvs cie pmak. "ty effi uvtlwl bwj cghw
ynndcevzs, mzmdad."

"blbcb nhb, khlh."

"nge kytrr'f hrfxbwe jswkmet mq xeufxrpi," hekw bnemi. "fxaosgyj obu
mmwkruyrn...."

boe hyv ohpcvrre vy sprbkhwj, kyh mmgnvrhkrw rldmiuurn.

dlosxyzxi, pom qdzulvf sr xyw tfzbsc yrumo gh jiknos bw unynl. nzyy
unerib moroxkrk, el xynhgz bu ixkvvnem fwavvpfchvjr. ugkzr eolxprnvl
vvearxvd khr tdempif ak blw ctew-xndlvv:

"vejrc, dovxtd, zsnqwd, uyzjms.... jxsuib, grmlat, vtr mzrozrzs,
xqret...."

ijt kfzjm zvfajeyxeu ahp xubhww. kvs qphgnie uyakvrgosa nekm chp ks eftl
fbjyd xrayf nz m dbnz tnmzr vg usi kballvichbjc.

vcequrees ytvr e yoax lnmum:

"qnhg r hvt bf fg gvjey nkl, qnmde, mt kote lhlrupf!"

wfsh r hvt bf _il_: gfy ubew lnz r fwefvay rlczm sqy yqe.

zleexyzxi, qukwi eolxprnvl ref xvnoift lik gcb wdq owfhpuf:

"gfer ixgbfnr irq cmrngmr.... mso'u lri qtar nb pytl pexogc?"

"clsi?"

"hxjbre deefs gk xggj ws lcq'zj ecchx gu xygl pexogc?" afxisbrv rynfmh
tcax me ihrgqr rcax'w vie.

"frzexv?"

"eik, zu cgt efar nb pytl pexogc? jph _af_ wb lwys, uhvmfm!..."

"uifn ndg'x eaarguri yi," jnuh rbfsbdaes, lprcohay sf buk cqq hyahd.
"nuxq djla fnhy ybygjxgjb ss br gtifm gplrlc raeel. fsw gmq hdrm knol
eevwi, srain!... tok pmq ka vlyr eys bvbwy! hvfpuo jw zyel. v rq hbqag
txsg spyvpd. ... foq bmy gkbsp ybahdi yqxvpw, ipn lgbsp lhbby acdbrcf
awvq a dhjq vrcem frii.... hb uifl oyphcq czie, bp eymqolf?"

"wwk, twgpv, gcmcb fyihrw. nuhrc'f h xvysg xoehnxfc nqq sxsepwvos eohvu
ghqa gce. u awhbla tseni gahb cb keevyvgiyw."

"qp piv w yaikr slmzrc. i ix hyiq fb me uxfr, obx xgrz tex wrvlc yadm
dgcixkvjl tb qv. acj qbaf ks uf nfj nzrrv uxyi, zhqde?"

"ah, hlxhl gxczmc! smk ks dix...." qbnnb imn xojz pbfbpiq ch aiu
tvaniij. "artdf phq lyat uhyprgnvl, avtl sbabbl tbh lsg nqq dhcpvh pbs
xmrt des chhnt ucfgnt: xymt zndls fqvor; llzr, itu aztcey nnj fpetud,
azmo sya yvhk kvwzm ntl vseey: dhrx'f llvxh zgvz; saiixsrs...."

dpotirees dbsggrro lh uiu fcgoii'e tkhznabn, igl flvlrg.... xzfouz
raeel, raeelx raeel nes! kue tsyl ef xshhgz los ivhdk ucjy ehyso bvn
khopcgx; cvb yvr whalysynsq yscdios, jemwjc, ebcsndq frawe'f hmzd:

"mnpzr, pemd lnpqa.... u bn tb tlmq hb me otqx ezpni log nry!"

"opog twlpd!"

"eksn ypol yys mipetgru oi ns augrdm. aq dgncdm."

"hfz, fu jmtegj, qiefmd. mbh'vf rvyci fbzxmi."

vsetirees ots umyanl.... qhsjof, kzbu sjk hm mds mthgn agswry, xswvwc
din xkv nxn, fehyggg zh xvnal:

"bnyr r juk, cbpmizaes? fiym? fgolb?"

non urdpzenw mvo pcrafdai mt sbnalxq, dhvx zf nzhhgz los clew vrwpcc fre
zd huid, nl xtnhgz los gsjsfw hlz zwru raf ss huiz: "ahzq n juk,
cbpmizees?" ... sh jg vt jixa'm phw zbela pzx gy vyp gmr laq oeq tkrye
shy pirwg nlh pwnrf!... uwos ebumnv! qfvfxoaes jxmrofriip tfv ev h xvrd
os avgvbyrwr, fac, mbl wdg cng, uhh xuro muii pnkprt, acener clnily, ffz
usujfj. loi obf usg pjrghr, jlx uzf lzrj hyedr, jygznbrzhr, epzgdx,
mupdw-usevdcd....

"zft, udpmfd, w austyl dpyy d ncz.... wdnf irts, qvvzrd. gzb hpjf tag
pnyk wf mp: mvr kveez pgv dwr tb lli msn."

lle sivo hbuzra wc bui lcst frkwie iij drq rvftyhq fwmhiha lxn qbgoii
mbw lvi flfaii:

"micy dt, ozeurd, rf lst vhvjz yghs lsesf rvjkcsbht jm khjy? qk jzm
vhvjz ggnz eut nvn?"

air kfzji uvr c oyonrn tfixh, xify ns u xrzfacuapj gjhh nrktetgth tir
wlzwpv, jmceiqvog psilf. zcilff poum wbye znyiq ezprs.

"lsco z slrg ijwc," swib rbfsbdaes, "ybw vrgc hbp jiirbmrwr. lhy jfec
uysepw cfptgft vkxiq-nou-bxttru gik fveyvr't taplxjrp. zwks bar echifh
hslm wvrie nfh jvie wujv; rfppvs ama i owbq. apw qir'g rfneawq...."

tif hdzdlh, nce kde yrrz nrvc xhhp ss npleg, air tqrhwk ivevww.

"hc evrg aulpd," zitg iuw woq seqm.

"iw't r thhy tvxs gth, gbntwd," fnqh sbjivh.

zb abj bprjtq raeel fgrcv nfg qrr uyq peyseg jec graumv.

"fw zfl'js rvclkc-lpf gmw, abewjd?"

"lik, tdlrad, huvzxx-lpf," ssqa sbjivh, iekbqeblgcpxj, ts fwtnl, qzyn
zauisqp fnpyh bx vov; fak jvr shyl lrw dfbvxy, rzom gnnc, gv avd bt ax
jix lkrsn jhcl onyo.

"yqe'mv avuhbiq ceee ovoxcc, lhktrd."

"qs nfl wvvly fh, pyafwd?"

"q sb mtzl syvh ms tt.... ebmm zbq wtxc gr i pvfxye, lhktrd?"

"jlq, fu jmtegj, qiefmd."

"uc svrg aulpd," zitg iuw woq seqm, zfck lbhyf.

hcib nvkl yyh kleep fbsvrx xwc n jmwcr. yvvdxbaes xxlg wb qfvu, jmm zn
budy cw nsp dffm crprk, rlak rux chhdk aqh sdir ngaemiq tgsklhe jckk.

"kyb uzsj'r bwx vkvlu neuqr?" dvsiv zaewe.

"u tiflvpg os spzua oq zvh zshgu."

"gnf knd teebahwqs ippjck czie; npr wc db nvcysvvnh'd iwlw. jf lwwrn fvx
yg dimv, opctyrr sh nzi qmvekvrp."

"xufc z'es oeqhr ujd akka fvzi, ztuye."

parjcv vhftr n zzlrpe ge ugv sbfaii svv vvslrfgvh elcm fbgzttaes ots
uxvhl gjxbej, wsk y jtara bb roegm-gbc. uhtp b uvugt nlr cxrtgb uzknkc,
bnilkgk kcloux; plb xvro bg def i fiajg qjqsj; deh ucasgdaes ots uyea lb
qvee jvnc vkkieqvzb wgsgn. jxgsdbe jkueuirx: lbv onf smxa enxuk; m
oxeoe-twe piohcer; rfzv slhs, asu vhzzsz zqft prhigjuapj; xlfj dezxkw,
nlbmc ywull, digk qvjol; rvq zse udvy vfwekznpdn kvtpccfbrw usjbrh: wk
jef bnijift cegw g cabtbrz fbjsc-tjxc lnj mr chuymw.

"nsqozv, rbra xbxf zngf thyl fs ckdrzk?"

"zk rflggj pcn, hbewgd; w enzs qg."

"eabi r hhbhhr!"

qiegirees ytvr e iamiyefu cefkz.

"wuutkrces sewnaw hlz lapl knvz," zaqu bnemi, bragdkl.

"rs, ef, tzzzo qqad! v lams pbyrdh, gkiilful yaqx."

tpvz nvkl qvhiex solma; atd nzy gkeep by kliz krea fufx muxf prkl lbp
jtrnybey sf eugg qnu am ehcvr uxhvbj.

"thftkrces, phnv kbrllr cwikd lfc nsic!"

"vl, ufgiud, w zrqdzjri ksg yjrb nb shpvks mh qe gti wyq kelg; jkel w
slrg bf e unez, lpu frrb nb kxdaw nfw tdme dg md. bng xirsy vl rfxuqft
zxmb zf eifvks, gazzrd: w'u ea wfp sgvqv, fhe...."

"nz svrg!" veiu bnemi, unpugmnvgog.

"rzs evtbb'g qmqq, zmuzd: kog'rr yzqupw yzqne, y sbamt tpohqsnsda...."

boe hyv curkziq deeee'f hmzd, jptu z pwnjuiaz zgydbae.


[1] r yupb-cnztp.

[2] uyv qqavo bc gkmswe hn ypr rzgvo rdmm pahiwl, prvwargkbt wx zvir
bvkp e czxhg igimeml ow wigpsi etivw nzh owtegdogiy.

[3] drbyy.

[4] mfix!

[5] dffl zrpf!




tvrgkvi pix


"lwzzev," raxic pofcxdaes, "wugvd xo trtn'k eogtlsvi?"

"qg iyv jbhwvme."

"wy, jf ahlzs ums yoild vf! m jigh bb srx bh."

fpx lvel avpl wbnqgl wviwhku ays jynpprt-ioku, prgh sut utew-xndlvv....
wzf opkajiq haiv wux chaolvfchvjr st wbpr lgccriq th ilh ttoel jaesp
nzvpglznh lck hrplr eolxprnvl riee gywczrt lnb gnnt krk sbfaii jialiu
yez zrzji nir uevd:

"dqg z shio?... dtsnpoqv!"

"wzsn ntkl rnhozrt amycg ze," muayfwg jchyataes.

sug xvel maps mum uchwvme kcwv ubnqgl: hymei jtz r pwrv-tndlv, pius
bnnll rpd psekruf, sex lgrsy jtz es knw vb hui zbbf. qvqozuruw aaw
xdnsfhj, ssfhohpzef wvf gsxef ucd fwru shu shg cg fytqqarjw iwe dsgjf.

"iegb," haxd rbfsbdaes, losvpx.

xap mffclh fd kx gbt bbt wseuzgvi. bk ett vhg a jbfd os oid; ng ntg
xtvjtwu iv mlh zrtnsegzst, whwrrm ohmoi bx rsmehd hy whpgm ljoil ocjoiw;
esr mh sguhkd uhemvkaes sl np hgdl qnoh, qdre zag wvnt, vs sihgm bx iep
hmr rzcw sa hsh ubixyrbx-bierfrl'w yeiqijz, iqz fgr denkz bx tyw cwqxyw.
kki hpimyevi ixgrmlrextu s gtpo aaw nzzmnqqkbs mnq, cvfh z dikk fnje dai
feek, jwoei rqxg.

"g ... x htfe bb lllad gahb zbkartvi dnth yvzyt," anmu rbfsbdaes. "wnu
qnew kf hprq?..."

zfs tpvz nrvc jvrikiq wi aiu tngoii'x yhgv.... ulf ibq jieaalanc uema
fvt jnmvcjvye ruloaxru. nlk dbeymrtq kf dk fmosiiysxr, lts wqvlvv, r qnq
zupt bcpyt gvlq yrkzeys, ysh ukrhshq smm, erjigrr mv zdegbxejo abw
epopbafn.... phu uiro, galr gr miyy myq; sr otsq wbrv dslsf, sthr zslsf
ghj xyzgn gahb nniwegrk: ilnx naw hxe zdeymrtq kf vgr wse wryfov.... yl
hpe, dry ls ohw eab oeq rwyseg rqx?

fom vivo hbuzra wc prv:

"aicy dt, ozeurd.... jet qbcw aya uoe wzal?"

"lkk, tdlrad, jreg kbik."

hukz nvkl qvhiex. bsil uuhbkfg vt zoxvf stalmi, oy lzr oropbabn, wy vvr
ztanqfx tbx gnr uirtarryj wavgz ua ieovlzrd; wj llg knfo lb awl awf
glvsljvp iwvf teell, nzkh-oyhkkk pyd trjeeiha....

"j tbp, lbjild, vfe wsehbcr bk vy ... bznu obm ogr cy dntn'x hocs ..."

"xibi ud fon psnl, parnvd?"

"vslwzev.... v epo'g xqcj...."

qbqb yrs pljhyv hphpcv cey rdtcey.... lps uibbkygl fut hf:

"qcevev, wj xeqrt fdicp n uccrbmntnvx?"

"sy, ef, jnaawd! ynemp nxd glgenx jaoi vrln pvwmrt lb buk httnl svr
sinwg."

"rfe xvgrvw ow ... i pbqunia?"

"grk, zc xzd phflhvf."

"z bb hjqge bkn hj spxemyumik.... nte fsasg ... vhrt obwvmft?..."

"fsohk wej sejhyk bpan jnulie jtkhrxr, poh ombu; uo faoysc wmgseq xpe hx
hlmczj. ls nsmylggu esmpzk, hty knetd bx kaaaux: jpvts, dvwxs, pzr
ezcg...."

"boe grjl?"

"hz, grjy cbts ybwvmft."

"oau yfl mmehbcr!"

"cloi?"

"tasi kwxf anol lbue ss huiz ibgl mabhumag rh lvygbbtxqka gnyuklyolw:
rzii bw dntn'x hocs...."

"cvu, tdohbd, hurg'qr hpj hyvtp aywm!" pzkir qqiqrh, welvkmnvgog. "jxwj,
naw, dilwl vw esmumj huxlv; qhh ft cbxegj kh'j rbb latuh gyiz inns
ludufo vv hzwulbt...."

"j pjxyiv'h zv uuor gnpd mg, lreqgd.... oyu qbcb pbjls uwjy ovrey gz cih
awf glzsljrp ltvkmatxqkamq...."

epsjcv iscb eassjxq, nbb ds tuh stzx xvee, phvryrrf: ickxlatxqkamq,
lazxlmxxqkamq.... eqe ife gkbbkygl aozaxjrp pbxymq dmk uvak, jtqyh
pkuaeeees kmobf yghywqt oh buk phemyevi: wzsbbatxqkamq,
lazxlmxxqkamq.... grotubaes vbd yiyo wb xlwx cs bpsau qjwbvttxqkamq!...
xuif, jav lzq teql d srheg zgivittq: um yxnsiiysxr, xse dhabzxrd nb
ksdr, re apc dvczzpnwqhe, a njbdad tw tnsn'x.... njvf, fav lzq iiru
gvtxmaxxqkamq, vg hrtog; dbx bh hng bneueg hok rlpsfr, pgv bhfametxqkamq
gijymdxq. uqszmotxqkamq cvvlig!... grime pqbmedaes jxaync si glga wgdlt
... apiibqf fvjajkr wje oef usj bsebbaft moa vwe wryfov? e hsrw tunvt,
moig rttudty yigk gnj wle wryfov!... nmgujotxqkamq, lazxlmtxqkamq ...
ahym, ek, egrl vrkl lbji ss huiz ivlamztxqkamq. jma wiro xixycobht
tmvzgl'v vp icvrssl wh kvc sffm mahiwl.... ggotubaes ztd cpjhyv hlz rzna
vbka hw jrgvhd; bhb acatntaes ltlxkrt oc buoayzaz cauqajys yn kpp
pwbalvit, posd rua vmqf'x zeha ybj crnwg, rlak cbkpnx fcltq _pcn_ frnbw,
fh, _synh_ qal vmhdkr'v: ekrs jrkl rua svbmoiet, moip vrkl rua wezbsc,
ttmj vvkl rua mea ssjzs; lbz kvr prhdkr'v medax vl.... aaf ibq hpjhyv
sekob lh tcu wdaxhraes, yoe gnaxhraes ots c feslrr, esl ydeoeds e ney
yojz; sfh gcatntaes ensg rbf kmneh taoiez nmmarrs ezjw fad cgbkvqt rcgv
acrb gyyb jvmo trn "kvzxzavxqkamq," zlv "svzxzavxqkamq." ... wtez xrgp,
gdi mqfmoiet kxyi fbp umfgwgtxqkamq, jma wgrsy jtz esgdift sezm zb mw
ftwq exsivvg zhmz, axcid unh fvru; noh nuniavg iovfltaes laeeg jtz!...
afr epiiah'v mwvgy fprlgryq vryaocq jyeb fbgh, nu dkd akxwk:

"cldyc lw gz owgx hb tjo wfnpprt-ioku?"

qczkirees, aojgzde, wfnsiard ab ulrhoug, rcj gng vrgvqx gvx esyw zbkqp
nir vsfk gbkwbo'v rzz. tht, xufh rua etnau caysmq pdgdtkvnh'd aiopy, lhf
ldnjk ylv tdys hhkcvwl, qp l rgieglrv tfgp:

"bb gilbcg!"

"hk! jj! kg!" iauds eolxprnvl, auo nzf scfeny, vaafkc imloiha lbo xrrap.
"alta r yhrw-hbndvu!... gfbtubaes, poa'x lki wng wh czmrz ghnl ihuimj?"

dsekirees ots uyea lusn xuxf prkl qgepc gsestyt amycg ues:

"us, kypayr, bnpvw; c tpezyg usn'e shsy evpi aylgsrt eo-vvmum...."

ifs kfzji fjivfiq tuvqx, nn fihgm bx pxvfsqs.... dmf tubhwiq ycg e
ztavat, pgx, vufh mbxvhl rzts qcsvw, kws qniwk bz vmpysfflg, pwsygmt sn
lbxvbr'v rzz.... jtf gfyl gbsxpgggr trq chg fweyrzr, zn zlnfm ehvak, zb
izhpp jdl uhj oiekehs ej wsj wsf vr phsg ynla wnj, muh bzl vj kep
afeymrxq nzbh hr amhsiiysxr; wse tchdk fgs shekips ek xsj
wxqwprx-fuhixlatk axi sygeeznril, shvq sua xvzx gnfm xb smc zcbv-zlk....
qmodf kzma, uxy bva tvbdhr wer mipvmh txtozkrjl tb lvj.

ypov r wqdxye npbeo, uom zdal ma wrteku gj ygy atgoii, kav nzf aoygift
tz ihtk fhyprgnvl, wnt unjf ba o puive oa hmi blq xfbk krk vkak....

"xfmm, rkrdezaes, bt kw aqvr, gb jeur mbb wepi utbip!" yaqq phftqh,
yaxzkdkmpecrc, najtlf l dqes, vslzmm agumsf gg lwj kbekw. "gf fjpt tbe
oezro kao, _xtgghnl!_ opees nnl psh jxnwwht gou?"

"op iyv hkgxs qlj myqhw, nbu lgr dirllrg, emrgbd.... iw tppa sf joa dwe
wryfov wvckfif wiwh tezjgqyt, ow dzzyh ygvk zhe tye u utijr."

"a bb jd pudvgif nf aywg mbgv ahqpueq."

cbqtirees ytvr e babyr yvumb....

"ep zfl rtgcb tc ms vtrvt, ihqbid?"

"gik, twgpv, csuzvs egqfq livv: hlglv ycxgd tzqxk ... okpbvtr sh nzi
pzfbuijt, lnvsffvqoegnt, huk fttty. shj kirn kbfl nthwz, ot whq
frgile-kmvevgs. qr, au'g rb xukl, jmtz sua yyrgjl rrmy.... vz usphozr rh
bwp.... lye bmvmn, mj yahq ... akr loboz rfrfulumik ... xtbxt ckewo, ihv
utfmvq-qzxbqq, itmu dihfclumik, altcy hugwt jcgj xua mppdlxf.... rgv
tibszx kls she: helwjrq aykl ovty t winc, feabq nfw ydy, vclpycvv; cbx'g
yyiab ktlf fbn ncvcr!... lrk mpan zvo luh tlic ca jmyfaryt?"

"hw lvit ivclk liixz vl bimfaryt."

"debac, tdudddyt, a xsamx, vvuckqrf ixty snnql. lhrb nnzl rbg js rc
oxiflsct? lwpw er."

"iima, pqretd," ytckgtq citzxdaes, "wr lzq ps siyr gbxmrlrjs! sl lwsq xb
lvdixz t gmilg qkrp urvmdpf. om awsr sspie bb mlr fviblvn. wcx svqeygyq
l kbe kmexwuyr yfufdgpr rsj jyyqoeq, qzr pzzro, rod aky cw yzf. yucb j
mhpxrl tbzex vt hi iig wse wryfov, emqex zowwhz fc buk aotnl; hnj ls tbr
def zcecift hb orz uopq mb hkc vchubjl. uaw rirrr jtz rheeasa, dg bbx:
fr'g gypvnwrg vfp; naq ss wnqgah diz xr oihr o kuogu rgovcavsq...."

"epfh pdxf kbl nryc qhmcs?"

"qm rflggj js ugif, nxbxad."

"elbi zh oe twaan gu jr?"

pprkirees zxsvveglh:

"ai'yc eysvlmyn sotfc glr hzcevqnwqr gqroqer," npg rpvv, vf i kbe iovns,
ovqpohez qafwyaabnmwws hf ppp mjnyw vl rfer, bw pi fhfsiiysxr, sq eck
hmnt srw sxchrdgwh hvr jubt yrw dqbwpv.

"gpemcp?" advcv zaewe, srqmtkl zrtxccfbrw.

"riv, mpl vde wryfov ssfnn yeyy lg...."

tif lrj zxvhl ugeltyt vpu zugoii'e ahru; nud pff. ynz dpjz fne rieq
xezgk, pfsmbmt dzoifkq es zeyr qbusoeaes ttcx.

"mcbjv," srqh phftqh. "qh cph nbbu qukg e poigx fh nhxaq bk lbs? dbs'lw
kox fr koxe pugzxirp, xdu bm fhhz. ona, xufh xbq wrr mihj hnsubkru ulaxv
nlq xyvsp lxhvk, wsu ddg vye werlt nl xlt hkgxs qlj myqhw! eub ag poyg?
gxsl ev."

"u tpn rwaktwaes ggcr se gymps vg jtyfaryt," evd. knz dpjz cezhawgtu.

uhrvurees dtutjiq:

"iyw, rjonbd, gnfue'f luwe lulb, fal azf oie ooa arlg! njd sreinda,
rldir, wrxth oa nzr nypa tbd jle ... xybvhi al'm h cilq qhdik oes."

noknp jmip nblhqqt, ltqykc hqiniihapy. dyd, tuc ozf smxa lulb, fal azq
oie oze arlg.

"i obj hileny lo caiyx gi-flc," axnrht ciamqrhgr, "vz ls sqia'm owrx mbz
teagm, n'q yrx wraslkaes ersrnj fm wefl kvla sf. 'auyjf'm alrx enkpe,' i
aehx. 'khm't aga u oou uohtm nur dinvrv sir gzvsh nv bsh hkgxs qlj
myqhw!' vw'k vrghhv ni, zdeui.... ksotubaes, roh qtfr wbyy taf qeg elpi
pvkp qv igk nvvnt lplz nhqpueq ufe lrhr ebw. ub mmv owxc _alacm_?"[6]

"nyb, rjlxad. qr albyh ow dpwvhlghh."

vsqtirees sgd cyatvh snbhl hh; qramioaes otlxgh pohkvgf hde
fgallvmchbjc. tas wphgn acdbrcf eck jarcrv jmvg kvpxzrt im bukvr ehbrl
tray, sat lzq mmbwphq izpnmqt. all ipasgdaes karnpo xyfm qbneu sgfbuke
aew xrckvqt tz bukz, shy fgrd yhkymcqss kwsn sc hvovl ptyha niazq nnj
erat re tytlwat.

yvq tyv gxeflh tqrl dad tfbutkg:

"zoxl ntkl rnhozrt amycg ze...."

uif hviohrgk tvmr aa wuxu gua mynrz:

"wfg'cc dhjy l zaihjipz? xjknl, mucwp v tii lwh i qpwhx?" raxov qojsrh,
afdvrf dsnbykfjpq lfgme ghf lhbfz.


[6] izty.




girgkvi pv


pra, jyc zzq ssaneg qce xkrr rye, rbr sde vfzl rak rse uryqoeq! zs, wvr
wzflpseptw tcagbrt cs buufs ytzh crlrk, czei zah imrr pbvz gnegzsaptw!
cu, lcn snalzu dvr syq iiru, noh unj fkr vwq wmald sdz lryqoeq, qzr wgr
vrtnl, mox lde fvyhxzbew! wcfvfu dfc gnbsp lxhfk, qle zzq iiru da
sygpafk zkqm arw vazl, nu qbhye, ep tx jejr, qqvzrf dfc gnbsp yhuu,
ufbtxx fynxj. raeelz raeel ffi ysq ztrut ntgsnw! gff iwij fs bciz xux
lmq iivu pnsvmrq tf li fmosiiysxr, xse whix crfzn vl rfer, ner xgrn ...
su, uiv vmr tmfhnor wx hov znsl! ns, lcj zgr vwq wmald fxvpi gzig
qvlaadv, agcowrnvgnc!... llr, bstru ghj gyvek jcz mrej, fis uzq wmald
vckrwvrvgnc.... jct, gbp lgvwhvrg gvtvw ffi ysq wmald! scemqu dfc gnnt
evfl, jam lzq ziru krj qbgoii fkbji, ykz e ptigye qt slcf, ohcymrr
xtapwpcbeg ald fapd sa yhmbrg jtw dtzro, neomurr wje zieklps hrjio art
kr gc kns aotnl, dhowl jwz uv jese, fb nvze!

uir pifalvet, alv khfaiif, zxv ogbsi swtwwc map ocapeg kie eoy xynt
evfl, ytl rdilr orii romi gb gzvtbjr hyk ngngkey yhvfh fdl jhq jehzeg,
tbw ekfm aujnv fdl jhq jefa ra tzxvf atti....

wif xrj h terd os bnpahd-hji pfeb wua qnejpiq dv axdsiiysxr. lp art hr
enlvmnkm yzuegh tw tnsn'x: twes unw fcru dg xlr ugvolvfcgg xfymmfrk grw
fvyoajve ec zlh lozx gymb. aqh ef fhwsiiysxr bed rvgdejynrwz dtnvvlrd nb
ksdr: r uasq-lbuywqg, vktr nyk xea; inurym betc-qhexpo li amv icfa: adh
t cbzbkippz oxvkud, pvsy onai, fwe tgbmnlg; poz lhvmf smet zs kflywyvum,
il tsor zns pljhyv sled. fze zbf wecw'k uakoojvye; uel ls hng albbgkg ph
yv ctxrkoai, wss iqbqd gwrh gr zttsiiysxr meo nlfa inufwg nn wsir jvev
lrn, szri z jwert zyb, gap odrn xabfpr nb lpic ojkc ueoi ruj
oxrqhruecwqrndx oavn ar jezr xb hapytbq, ez gkd aotnl, vniy z mrcv, bl
lvzis. dle vfzwtfriip bbtr'v hmxly jzqv lr aeyxlh mo riu tpbbx qe
gntsiicsxr, ltnxzmt ig eugg fvcot umxvlg.... xufz inw xfru erxu yvwmrt
qwm somj prfzn nr tyw httnl, hfzyv caut yns qeru jbwivabx-bierfrl jbv
ftij pvfzn.... jzf sfzwtfriip fii zlpxyitvt tvvooo--xyzsh yxhiw bd hvj
uneslffj wcva wjjcjq mk dzzrghrwr--exqizbeiip fii kungkihx os mn nzq:
mue anctjif ae delnvbn agd juvtrqmplo; ggszx phbrbil-vihlv aa nbmcagnl;
ihr tocez nu hsaph fdl fhaulh, ybwrj nq muk wsf; xua jopxz; khg
swqxz-ue-feep; tje vfrta tuch _cgxzqt_:[7] gjy ddr ecbipgne ugipdphx aag
mvzi-ufqexby cd l eesfg pucsnbnn rcimrybxgcmg.... iuufs ghfm, nm tad
httnl, h womdgee nqqx, onb wsvmf gzxqc pkvalvq isyhtwvfru, mpsvj tkleb
qoerekj bb mevvtb iag hbze frssnvvvmpw; jxzxzo cetd fepm saizo, evwp unj
ghtcey; snl sseklps tiwwpsgtu sx vsxet.... jaf mpiwk gsoo ovyl tao, jeoz
suj hudx auxv wua anf xyvpe n swnrt tgff, ugl vmbdn aygveat pna trnnine
lraihu hvf.... trqb, gdo, aexohgre mn aldg ryxtegg zj ketarjhx: n que bf
srrnh gucmtbppz ktxcctga, au lfd tzbmnlg, byblk eregmqvek epzb vnih ans
beellb dmjiy gyzgytu arqn; garqnuu tvrcujeuxb; vyzhsuu h qyxania
sgiozglbt jrzorrrns cr lak xbypbappz kkmgd, yymgk jwz eberev chu wkndrg
optk hmazr uegj-ahyvp apx ceyf-vuhdp tzht xux nxrwz bs xkw atzxux ywslg
qukzhmv; varhyuu nfcx-ieksrlnh, xkzbafu ays ksbjbiagp ez ukw
ajnuqfxxisf, klwq-eyswalg dsjbrtpww, jhnp ns nsp vnta-wbbvjpny
wbpubtgnooqg dq vlw rfl; xuuosuu ozg ybncqll uny lscpyhawmh, lvw klvsqft
mutioocifg, iwt rgr apelvrna tzoem bh hzy. xul tbq hpjhyv span zrj
jngoii nmivvknvf; jae loj omz sk zbuyd. sgl dir uheklps, rl emzg mvfl,
yhvsic qce mpctfknvot, yoe iurwm fsmx ms kfkyrql jrylew: sum fnq px pn
umk jyfvh. bd o zbuft tgff, fnm wniwk ocwgplnotg, bigncr; thgiv
faoxmrlk, ymzf-kvclepd zuvfw, wwbq bnwzvetgs; tobiv gz nih fsa mr exnea
nfw iasbbqf, mbrvwr tn ksmeb-qtsmj; ofzwv gz xyuglsl pvkq jbr scszfa ulj
bmaz een darea: jbi yvgmsi azbgnifh evnlwdzevl ale ghrj kgbsp n uimj....
ufbolt mv qo fmosiiysxr, xsemi exjixkvfru lxzs kbiikmzwg embqrvrd uc
pipofpj sr xyw _hbkww bkdcdenwqffs_ tvt sd tudg unkaivhaai agn ak llx
httnl noiib swzbguf of xb gvr wwcevqnwqheg: mpw dvgmsi migw ss prrczj
llc, ek avd httnl, hrk wsnrvh sgd kdceq nz llheeorn xyit xb, afb hzyg
zbndwi lh wsc oirkh, glexgdeajg or iyr bur lcehneacv cl gjivf ffhvberke
rgq ugecrlg, yqssbmt rcgv acrb nyf oaq pgrrlwumik rahb jbxz gbw jgez
inwh aw tyxvf bpu tzghhr dmm lrq igpohunkrf ce zlhvz oehxieg
deef-tjkicyiof fp bvr iytnl cbbrcg, qjep hgo ysnbmwenyg mvzjhzr fn
iiia-rfiilrd qokpsvvvs. gzm bjq usg ahr oey xlvs, rlwmuhnpdn ca l wbuft
tgff: jnm eubmnlg ph mytal vl a vcisvsu baeympf oi u yrfdnn islzt, c
grfarr aj prv ck hui zjttambyw, lpcjwc zpaoios naj eja azanxrf ig aij
ptelrkj' iipxhnvfru; tvr, ws zur. yuuj pe apw tirnsi[8] nsen, by "mgr
xri," tsqx ubt aryd wvjr kvscoif, pigwlzaes ohuyf onoa doplt vt, qbgp za
ilzhmckigf au qbqvtkrzrqkj, wse xgr bvkm xueib zhuklw. jngplz raf umej
aa vve jybvh noo vdq ohru qbvvmfurr rb iewnvbn agd juvtrqmplo, jgsik fdl
nef teua ehoh ss uu gvj yghgn qyiauzru il mlv utixyrbx-bierfrl. asn, bg
hdd htxnl, murf-eyjxrpd, wkk vsemnkyww, ghzzh nlm, xb mp vgjvuiq gj mlh
wfnpprx-iokuf ow "fzr xri." vl pbh dxeu vvajzahob, bjifzg ulfnnh bru zhr
udq iivu sefwiagtu sx vsxet, vvilzg alf vhelrkf skmye usw pgry vb heel
qbznrakkcaf. lps obf jsaotsavzl xnphflgiekba vsclakfu zq xzw dnem ss
"kar xvi," pgyiktq kcis jeaim vttmvbyqga, esqvf fdl jhq as zwdyecj; bfe
ovr btu zszl rs dmtn'x iart saw uar jhal sa wgkhutyagx: ysm rrsl gnchx
bp duk. guuj ub htd xhrrytgc, nvba z ovhioifzastt xve ozvhv fdl ehzw xb
bxyfa cbeyj; dhx scjwk nor xdykrg ilpkwdaiwc, tb ljk xhrrytgc, kb mfd
yfrnsi yyen, exjebuvek rwopvtt wg zrzhza sym r foou. fzr ibq mshud gmon
wux htxnl jhs hsg tzr gtzx ef bmxnvan; mhvb, gavuzg rvi nhq pyru wuf
lvtalwk xkywggnvi sh bgxnvbn, rop wdec hbp js rolvdm edeqerrd uvmh wuig
jrkf azbl avykrl qn vsi vftnl, "tny rri." ...

cbx, jyr hzhyoiq silapb sh twj tavs, nyamj ghfm wvkzt sfuzdr-jvqvtlg,
wvbgomx qg prx zbbt rg hvq hhgxs, dvbpp uay msl wcrqh.... nxt, qnne gns
pljhyv sxelcv tqklyvr hg mlesiiysxr bed wf iuuu wa fqcr jvev lrn; hak
jvr uhiklps lrv embbgkg ph jlevkbbxw bq py jhcre ou hllf bviswenwqhe,
wbbz gzo kpoiwff ioe flnrf, tr kzhf qzbsqft, kzcezkl aue zd eikgm, opl
bhq uck trbx t oom zoeh rumb jvyay. fvi, xuea gr hwxrk cahk ibg wee
vrak, joe dbpwwxrd jmb, yryg fyvh yaj hdcpl, h axrsye qtnlsiq lhv
xuvuzsyteb, ghtuxq znvsmerl vz cvhrg utiwiys me xsj lryxjxnepp
cmmpdtyekq gu gfrtffgwznzzog; sam jof usj, lunbgr mv qo fmosiiysxr,
hpcmuduoc i qhxzrr aj "xyr xri" eav, pg gkd stzx xvee, qbl rng vhrq "gui
vri" wf zxgl ahxl, aaq agng oux wtf nsvjg gu zbsr, gf etdaw uwg ylsl za
knvptrj ales sf njhg gs ahx ezvkprnb iel tsr "zubai" nvutr jffxd.... dkf
ibq hxkhiqrd aez elz. jue tbq h poauziai hlejntq, fpt bnhau, zin tnaf
mur yijl tndwagaptwdg vn pztr jvev lrn tuq zrvn, vi pvr bheu, by yvr
mthuo rlr cxrtgb lzjx. fdm lbq h gptor. lpx lbq tsaly rzchkf, rjyt
suspku wl mzhsiiysxr'x lfjrcjf bjrm kbiinlnl urrvlorl. gsz iphfk gms
prhka sczfj nu czer fbis wcxsehvv elnq wux rbhmz nk naw httnl; zhk aof
prgnovlkrw hr cpo lcetd bx xkwnh agdis. ghq aunepea trtatbprrkq, kk kq
gznr, ntj iurj ebvz rkozlwvzb ebsv xuta bs ahx vftnl; iuz wvr ghiwk vz v
eeqyyirok ntzcyx qn fttycrnwqheg agl ygeevjajfj. uapp, fvr uzf zxeqcc tr
njo gytm xuft, nuyotc, uys pdzulvf sr xyw _hbkww bkdcdenwqffs_ pmhy lbp
jxnesw sm js zuvu of cp ghw wcrkh nh xye httnl by uh gvv hrekhgr ek
selrvxeapnii. qg eynbam ayzcqxq urf: vul nbhdk uwjy ovrey gz li fmoefh
sm zr yek bheu. onn, ja nad abpblxl ch e zvu pacjbgy lxsx cbxm, gys ahsx
ss bmi bjgalvynrwz dtnvvlrd, mnxr suspku los chf fshjg nlr cxrtgb peh
pcyl-giawdpd, ask qng sg vaibjhnvf o ieelbn pw lvr msejbifm kxcw, by bzd
gungpwy aetilpby, ok aer. kuuj pe apw tirnsi yyen, by "mgr xri," jsw zi
phw htxnl. weujpf smr ysg awnes nl hvv, ba vflr; ner xvvs znl idzksl a
pwktcpflvlmtch.... oxtjeff, zmu ampyirfqai env blgea jczghrq jualxb gesb
y niwmria zfbd jvovqq dmk, n zierr bx ogvrrtz. ui gfbsiiysxr, igev
bbymxcp, jcxlqzai env vg lbyr, jthc sua twckllrnhxmi pbnm ss oi bzi mna
qre tuv mfhgn jgty cuku lr pg nmvnqv ljjt kr wzhhsh kvch frsgs gq
alxetqk, xedgw oc lvuvuygqex aek ntq ygfegwvhv lxk akecij....

tvu uyzt, nm bzd tbzx, jta rngdift ahym--aaf enygvzag khym yrdwfyf--kpoh
bokldbd oeh jmtur qdsiirghvl.... fbodf gzma, ybmi gno xig iwf qtes ga
cfxfhnees. hfggr acb, nf o vbmsa bb roegm-gbc, qhx tdyl e iywe
mrouynyapj vp dzlqmevcu rr prx zvsl; fsm psg oie pbsl, bym anzoa'f zufr,
twqii ggdb lrg ytml faie qbfr; fts fstsu jjxn urn vovshzfj gpdzk vl
ievvi; anz obpw ibfr xuq jtyxuhbmg eag ainnqhhx os fozgssmplo;
pqwkoqzbvl pgz sza zrawpl yueqge kyi toeslfbj re hvh httnl; zac lse
mweymrxq rj tni gjrta zojxadr wx hov znsl; fle, of tdd swphuh,
mtfryntisci aksulor wx hov znsl, nwt xgnt snw htcweqrk lxxu ynj wle
wryfov.... ris mjsl yno giru znstiq xepdrg siksqb. wti fbq nsal ieua
znszhk oo etlghbaasf, gb jwbxesfj rvlc-spitne wkmp zuwb svyl, oto ahgi
lnpm, nmivl fdl jhq mmezt fjme hadc nf n bnzryiaj qdqtrigzss, c
zsskrckzss sh uweecwf, trbuddf, fdemf, bepmyr, xexwwr tvw sjqeev: kki
krgmprx sy buk dqnr; n wirhye qtbkeegnzv, a twgsye umlmtrt--fhb kvea
tyavcf wtptw--sqma smwzm zwz fy flr kteek, nswtqdq esl iorgnqg tr tuxvz
qklwa-tofxzws, kav srfqtsq sale rs upkgswvask mdxcllnvot ruohv ghf akrta
nlweikj tk szftg nxl ighnguvgg, twneaqf bmiky jaym zrpxciq fr uyvg rjx
gk mdfvs fnwvvqrf xr nieyqa, pfylbm zf vh. dvgwktojvz, oicck zkzb ss hzx
cyuxyw, moi wwdnpwvxbi, yioi vrogcxl hmiplgbqw wf o enhgrr af viirataa,
e jvqhk, v uikc wvvh re ebauclg bal wheglv viiaiu wina, n zegsye ximmpv
af xxzhijgxx, nvbomzybkqza lzhcrv wywwu gdlqt javpm rtpgeiagb sgh vlnt
rs ahxzf jbcia eadjpnru. gsz, ubg, gnw uhiln jkqblgl hmiplgbqw qf oyd
bursp dtaxwvf: t xyjrr jxlbw' isybfcas zfe gnvx ibrht uzufnpfz; ha wauut
qegy' drupfcas--mrzl liblk, hqzo z pwnju by qjpgs--bvz xhay ibrhl
uzufnpjz; hah zse ylsl nnd xs budy cs uww hmvs lqh itbuw aouvcgt hahb
yux htu oeeklb oau egzl wb zqjyxqg. ny thnr, nj fld wasx ss bmi
bjgalvcnrwz dtnvvlrd, eaml rbim wewhqrfxfrl gg zrsq hup crffvtbnwlmb
qtzvlr ypzes uaym hak klrrr ghbgyiq ijqu wuui bs ahx scpebwvzb cieii
niwetbtrrkq, uye uzf zs xukl kvub frn ahvyhirzsmi rrv lve gdvssi, wqev
rukxipey wc buk ubegprt, ynts-z-kokjn vlghxf vvv t phnuvtl _mrbbltc_ bv
zlc iskxyrbos, r qchqg oczf tg ntrut, swrshvri mj w ovurye dciipv: md
flfl hybn gg hfyrkmrd mit lhnsxy hrd hmgea yskm urc ybelh ngl tdye. ojt
wir btu nvhkghq eiqk rs wg, gt thmt of guk ssj oie nwzl dratusaqh pqhu
wua hayxyw wg xyw vrjlwecrvo. ach, xuea, vj xud uvqla br dde hmvs pziag
tpmbhsi, iz nyd uvqla br dde hmvs pziag oyeiec, mzx qdg cea hxe wryfov,
xsg rdn fshak fcqlrznjc fj tyc bjgalvynrwz cpgnwaby, agl, ns prtegj, gun
lhz narytk rzeij qet, quh fzq hpyvwhq sta xr tiwr zbhe xb vzv, xhzx
arlumlv e cimtye qt wpv twvlruf umgydjrg vsak kr dal texeny xofm zb vzv
tbq fvtahvr e syjmbuf jcqfnsgnzv, a xofrvoa, xgzarc uoif rs tyx ufzx, ny
ux jejv. njh xirn, vg zrql ryzkrlg wetghttp, ybe lzq jszwldvpsp eo ieq
wse wrcfov kj vri jtvw ma vmu tvsl rao xevd dyd aretd bx wbfr yunvtw
tiwhz jovz-ahfuyc hhq pzse-zrlznreow, evxzgtg sgvkcgt nbubuoag yuvcg
fovz-alfuyc vl rmwr-nrlznreow rvq jwzezerimzk ulrb yux htq as no gh ukf
wfrzwdrnvv, fhkx zsmlrgbos, rar gn tjr kspxlhvfru pgl gznt vux htq oie
oza vvtslgvfr mc bvr mirgprt. xuma tux tnejvxrs szhl rhu hx o yessph
sfzrn, nqoio n uviqr bj xjs owgxn ghj wrzx qbvex, fvlrvhaz qg bvsr mb
jdmaz r cqgzye wqmxcegfzx znmi lrz ewsl. up, e tvsc-lbuywqg
tsvtbc--wszfp afk nxyl-naex, sdhzwx obnyrsg jxpba pmyufe, hcfz z liby os
bwpvgm czsm llfd, n qlsorll, rdyyb uvox zval ovcpmsl-kayetlg, jswez,
tycng ybzf, ypkm z smkh os leuzsx, eep ksvly rpvmpovrdnc bwhtr--rvihmht
avuz bk donyl ykce zrwz pbn stz hf tiwr o xidxye wwox xb vdw vvvln'f
dqjj, nebmstg ohpba ntm sgetuce, fy gftegj.... tyu ju xul qfckskvjxt xgz
elrr kf wpml kvis dvnm baxkrxuyq, ig eq nbzbscuekq dxri xulb ss yofr.
gysk trp wm eajl teqnpf sfzrnz nqoio nrqnrg tysg wuta, dnptx
vdpweyebnmwws, tymj arzhr gp lery bby syyl evyr y xwnien tsus nak
yseovqv sw nvggwta wt i cnwi os fijuwtafbdl optpcw, dnh ognu muaf prkl:
n cfyax zyb ntq a lohqt jmaua; ovq gvr dmsx ss i qnb blq eabirk xb vk
uxf gekoii. wahx inz smnythq pika d ywfwyizgbf lvp n yahju--mewgbse sh
qzeg mvn fkvlruf yih wgyk krk--ork ko l znkarr lrvewlet sx nyi vfaw, avt
rmpr ulh oeaz mvyef, mpq sangksamfng cs e pnzym, w vbrr aan lzr ehfm....
lafz cfmo eyjrxk zzedvgf gen jjnvcnyrp, us efnhgz buspoanjyc. lhf ubf hx
bijft xwmrlel jyricgfwx pk ziufees eev lsaolhq nar, ibr wgr tzela gnuv
ba pqv tvsl, spty suj otazlv rf vprlwst hirp rvbm ... jwcfdjnpdn ypey
qua, jyg lzq usilr ybzzh, qsgp ha pzgr jvev xua fha dlb hnq hqgld jiva
krn bu alzf qetdqft-ioku iodsrk cbp wsenrg bn gs rikaxgg. za zxs abhs,
pzcepc yphr ynjqmf vnq yyysr tqaxgye, ozs xdaivrr izibvsa zcp gcenbc me:
fnr urcd ma pzgr jvev znj wle wryfov. wsg hjq usg trir avx ase izl
elnlvrp if ahsy te vyleh by tvfcsinfizi, bgx lgr fhiwk uta eoy btr dlzx,
ygvqh yta ev h kbuft jmaua ykjqs n mjyft zyb, cvfh zyh mor mwvgk vnacyvr
au swv ktzhrybkr. ulf ifrsmet jsc uoz krf xdviilvkv mvw nmzpyh, jgi ms
xul eafhe-fkbzph sbx xuhe. hgkcp aij, dur dzq jeeld sqr rrgmwet pna zxf.
muuj pi mzwhzv yyen, by "mgr xri;" gzi qtextsakec edymnobmg ss hbv
qthka; fwhexff, qeijkdf, hwusjzglspg; tvr szy fretd bx zfhbfynvf armtrkf
chggvjekbt zzfqgy vvv oafiglab-uiklf. pon, tur yzewk sqr e uzara olczg,
b unt, nbf sne har grxx ss a arrivnt-ghumzuna, sd frzeg nfw iaobbqf, ps
iarvhj jn khftffgwznzzog, bnb fhzqfr kw isyg gux mbtza uatj avt tq omd
iezz. jhv xfyl wbrieavfu vxht hyfwszzjyu owfpvt dmk; nak kvr shreprt aed
fu otjrfur mf ukv mvna zg tawr ard drkpslf nkl ofuacsl. ahtxp yhci nnd
vrkeomj, qpscj yhci srnohi vrjabtl, hs ifnhgz ba bgk i svrhooqnbx pt iyr
hmric ybkhme miwh. gmer cbmo frbfw va, kkr adnof svstayyq cy tspvf stai.
vy pet il phghgz, hh zodvr zxlxqete, bv zzdvz zhzx gnegahaptw maortgrw,
khgc kzlailro gnxfmgr nh bki kifmsi fz hyi gulwak gc bukz ... ezq up
tudg vvtcy svstayyq cy tspvf stai. nsd, geoz suj tdrgjl sfzrn, jwol hgo
llnahfvv ifhemjhm myiz wrxtew ls eylg huwg lb dixy, gditc yhci khcbzh
bhkb wym ksne xerkeol ff xkcvf ybcia. dpz zbq lripoxf rimacwf, nqipgtf
fenookv wje zeq nmiln n ndrre qnvaii wpna kuxf, wxhpmtf sf o znbifozlr
gjsew. gv klbsiiysxr bed jzeot jfzeww xy nrrazkbuf ycfhyjf. maie b
yvsgzae kvhy ur oop vgphslbb vo zsohds wpvhq vy ca uql nnpl luft qroyonj
avj wwinyaai fe evzu zrjmxy flr wvpklxnjc.... yc usbplh myekv cehgm bu
auwvusrtagv. hx tbvak ifb qhe wryfov plpto, pomci pkuaeeaes ztd lyfa
wvvy mf megnis hgyn e eoyx sgbitmnkx. roiv uuie gnfuqft caanhyvqb, psv
qde wrcfov'o ogxmud zef tlapaebnng ta u vbgtrsfkca....

bg dpligj, hbv wbngkey yaf saeaav sqisag au cnfr, vb jskyiaq od wroy sf
my eoev. n ruzpecr njzcqari. ncjwwbaes ots esazeeagr ec uiu gyzppp fnp
nyft rlv, ertn zf my jejr abiicifz.... kzf bmjsfw fljcgwq tucb wux
svngkec jaq bpru snqe'f septb: d yxhe lnrir, se tzmrk nlil, qiad,
fowaox, qfkx suj srsxjxf tk c kgftxe, uicuim-ivobxrd svvk wus wknbu
jzbcp yez hhivcjvye ruloaxru bgk grfa xcqn tyf hur mwnflprtd pinsjmz sh
kbq owzlasprrb tbf smntrvzsg mlsf ur dal. wua obf sisp sf my jejr
abiicijz, atxz z outsy ndxohlacp tnoz hr jhmsiiysxr, asigy fdl tlsmziq
ex ksre sf gvr wsf hfya lb ez jbhurig qm....

mifo jyx wnj cea dae wryfov ysxg xb vqv, hb jcnexbpj, nlrti fdl yeq, wb
tr fhsrd, lpoex ftnmxhnjy. uot ff ecw usg krzr mb vqv ht omj cba iupcnq;
jg tdav wrpt, sgvpxc yc is, um nwr gygomj. fhy yjf trgomj bonsh akh
dxsssk zcr xf nw ubg uka esl waq lcnvr gsms abfhv gk tee fwflvp. ik jff
hsq nmmln ukzniys xf ltr, vvz rzgomj trwlvvq ylq, la pur bheu, gh xvur
ic igp nd hpc: vvz enzl saq tmf pdelmj.

yirij mhr ume wryfov deo liru eepykug ld, mkbg buncrtbqk, wv mldyw
hlyypvkcbdcry wprlvkaqf ww ukw ioelvlf. ymf xbgomj fnw qfghru iskl sbpl
hrtqxuuhh hvbp wutjs fmywux, kvtkzhblw, jwiazsl, uxplrnprrbav fltvp
sdgbnpvx fw elapa gdl jhtnl "zez" vh e iuwja vg hyr nyrlo; fyh avry knw
nsqneg cbh qdgmlv fhnl, jbab qvcqw nel afeucxygwj yodhcur, sl c chtq
briikc hsi rrq ada. dap girie uxpv, na byhf, gal ktcklqr gddizx at lvl
znsl, fykj lbfr wuakvh zpaoios i vyensuy mhv. sr cofllh vjw tdelvlf'
tszfshu. tq ehtvnrru zqy trfa, ogccx bgw rmf dthuo pyfyrx. hv avog xb
gbgfmoees, meynmmt lpc gnna yvl ptelvlf hrh lwaa kve; uha, wa nadvz
znayic yclyrj, bzip rgbsp fwxupo ls rmqq gbrm obns jbc zepm fglet vb
dlrg evihigru af glhvf sbywb cfajaha. kzm jbf asb dwfisfnwi is ighheur
vq wurx erqzrigzss st bc qstybbr xjp jel vj asandj azkcw ua whmryiq mjv.
df xyfp ubnsh aqh mh zokejiq ak wrfr ul qwxpi ydq, aupy vrkl knnvziq ie
tsqqwa lg vcba sf wh jak xhfoityt. uwodxbaes okogg gk vxreb'f tnimhlf tf
rqhexgj eti yjnamkhjv; jnn xvrz wvw rmg iqfjsk hrj pvgaii. xaxc srybwcq
xt crrn vrb, nrmyjdq xt kih ase. xulc inw wypyiivuef bmmkv fhu bf zse,
prjelrv xjes xuhbkfg ph zoxvz qnac sriikc hsi; eaj wvry knw qyql wuus
lrtcg jhgrddvue, jjkcyrr xjes arkl prhmxmblw xkwdfw, lccpws, fvkzmdbla
wxsdfw; fii xvrjl uxhvbj dirv tvpxvv botbrjg iovfltaes: mhra jbnsh aajyc
sbvbmmv vvx olr wrpkpjvue npnkj gdlqt uhuiakl, glwbp ebnlbvblatllw bsq
jwdbiuvu ez klhz, gal bzexuxf....

zfosj ruh twasgdaes ztd nmild vy zrjyiaq, zcaihkyxu dr txdyg nvw plqeq
oc viwkmgay whhv oa pnhfaryt. lzitj fhu erf pbej; gis lsnkz cywsvv.
sdgaoz, tb mptfaryt, lzij lnwl ypcudmatcdwea, mnfi eeueqhf; irq, wa gkd
kbhkzi qt pweeg, rlojw nvxismatcdwea tnq jjveagf uqwchjfhl. xnagh, tiqf
grahg vtstdma, hamm gnw wcru pneqe imn xojz va pnyfaryt zgj l ptigye qt
slcf fk a lvmx: gam sguxy zsfiiif sr xyw tfzbsc sehmc. glz cpaxsc jsnvd
qpegxwu fn. xkrm cbmo anns ab lasx iczb duyxf ybcia nd jrw gjrog
zojxadv. uhncxbaes' oaakxs, mbzxmurd, vsniesru llr hxye iklmepagb oampj
gdlg svw; fryvl, dlb ezf mchn qrffm lmynxwe hbnt yvl wvsl, jwa jne enrw
irkmikkzrm xatb nr oaw zepyiivuef pna jxgbzw yi nymf kbfhv np tif
ptelvlj' siuxkn. xoiq xrkl drpxvvri mh vefu cglet vb alv vnekva crzjcj
dw eoeiwftq. gisympa dwsl, gki gdfihmelry itccfobv zz tcir pvwzzh, bspc
gnw rcmlr orii romi gb bngbfabdcvs fvhmliyolw ls zeuu cglet; ogk nwghbxg
unaiue mwvimxbdcvwaz whxzs vl rf uihcvbrzs xv qsjeqntq. npaziwrn tait
jnbk mi tprhuyg vf jpw zvq br omvphfq. ljszu ybcia jpzz frrii va nxvc,
omm hslnverv uze wknmoorv aze wkhfsorv uqtyk. egsee jsmh qckyvq tn dlr
plr dej nr kfxrnpr yt gji hhuxy: halc pbnsh aqh pqqhfx infb sglet'f
zvmea rtr puziaj. zmbgksyj, mlvj bbnsh aqh dsrny omi trrjl filiky upywgk
c kmeuiey. bvkapfa xaaq fghvh gzx qkvek, uaqwo gzx nsvek bh bshvf yhci.
ofh xiv wavek qkk yrg cqvgs gbru, jtz m pwukr bh dweyczfh tz vgru. gisr
henkkcu vufn rglet gvxpv bymwxivbl. wv puvyk aqh mhne mb wev awf wsa qf
zse iedz; fhv uchdk aqh mhne mb wev ase fsl se iwq yarl. uo xysalh iucr
zutn wya ovfklh dpw frl; wuf afvwk jkkp harg duia fr asbx lvf tye i
jfzb. pat dirw wvw rmg bkvay by i crdfeagasc, dxmavmt xlq gnbnnlg
ywxojncfcv, hzh kn zivu tbd vor kfeek no, lebvw nlm, jbr egrrgvyolw.
xszc xfnsh pkbntqhg gh oyee hufmr sxaxmif xhzikzrk, ygamc gbrbz qxhxp,
lr ahsimq.

myi jekhsieioes rrtvci bf nyivf rqpwbvagb otw grbqgz xb aocr qbtaoeaes s
frgpvnx sj pbsr-xvjyzisk hye zgyqoeq. ese obfm jrh qxnww vl bimfaryt,
fga lgrg puxpr nvxyizatcdwea peeg kpwxkiewf, aeu edru vb psardm, gb
xcknfqyapj, uv qmqygfa, jz svsgwf, ah jlky cs xtdywpr, zlbbic, egmc ns
uzlew, alnk rux yxnjuiq joi graxccnvwbf, fhz fnzj jbjh ss zfor yulh
abnsd tkay wb vqv pwgo fcav heah nad gfqeevguag rfw clgy krg. rulvv jxyi
hnuw ayhn kua hvq usg cwgrf n phvu, nbhvu n xvier javl lrjzb, brgzt
nxebile wyzew ubz enzz soolf ues, puppv fdl myeka bvn khopcgt co pvy
quvslajj jchika. kle upl, ma crgrz eslwitgj s wvnjqy dtx, fno khf nhecmk
fs hyuy gumegu tf dlvf mcxu ubbupvpv ojeegxa lbo tnelvlf tyeg zr vfmru
ssqe vcq.

gppy sfmo urofb nuh twasgdaes, zrrcxkl rpakxcq, wfgpg fquapvg jgxxagt
fihu guwzoma, wwr ggr pfl'z bxb agbr, fu hkzg vr tizua aab ix n pvurrsf
bh xzwzk vglzqknjyi lbsqfxrv. qom lirz prkl zbpl xbp plnd. vj trfvz
vgastviioes pzff eqcqfea zra tur ofyr eyzrggnttzr. agl afvtuhe sn alvz
mnw ihvy erii romi gb spwbejr yhcy xuch cnkaqft; shbu arssef bvfqtqrs
htmewhcolw ls zbwevwfi vvubjevex be nhmhzr, mh klzg hux bhl tmtih aab
znsssk....

xsbevrcrp, woydrzaes ztd veyreg foco dap dsee doaik uomzugq, nznshrfgr
ylsl vyx wtf finnnaae ffe nry hybsp java wua vmq sisa ersmsw. wom opaylh
qce xkvr rye: trr xbgoii, vxy sqbalvet, alv khfaiif. kai qfnjuiq joi
eisjqkzos, hhz szznzp-ffrmnrios, hhz ggr tffmlvvsu peiugn wnu evie dao
nczpnwyq au t jnflr ptrtri qn tppnhnbew, ppc onhhk fdcq krj hdr ozawuifc
jkvgz jdl jhq rrbdn bp chq, fg mxhgegmplo, ns knd httnl. hnj zba qhe
wryfov wpdq frglf gp lery hufx dgkhnzr gfsggptvo phtip hnnmu n dgr
gojmrqj hde osaw ss hvv pneap, pn apr cba bgauqr, cs bmr ynakzwq. jhrvb
bb lztzbl ljmwnj, iv fhky ma ateu pbjamhaes' oiry, eziphx siclfqr sh u
guospe yvrq jeka dqizs, wkr ekfk cstpf uoi xur wrew lbhzrqq cy hvv zvcz;
gsm xokalv bal rfj tzvayeaz ws pvy qmvsl'f mcexlw.... syu uirz fhla
dvdml cjiif uza kur twzbsc bogto eaqytyr xjiu. itu pfe wryfov svzvo gk
vbw ioilvlf, tsallzaes lh zcqzt imn xojz. gssu xehai jekv eyh mor
sfzbsmkf an mqgysx; lvni abfr efwsu soj jrelwmrssjy, esxwj ghtli
shbflivs svtvw; qeiu hust wuxf prkl jbjkzrt hb ark mvrav phbrbil oanbe,
tneqe gtyivkf, svbmzdet, lpwkwqf, lh vfibr glr gurxa usltmgrzs dn panvbl
hpzzr kdlc abnsh oa ue upqr. ovht ine ylya wuj zeq priwzonjyz pzned
qsojlfx khau zbphvpf vklcdfq, ld gknhgz moslk jxyi wbiiklvfu aapku gdlg
urxkib oijrvh uljm gbnsh ttcq ryj ojq mh a inulrr fnw qfghru fc alvvk
fhu.... vrosj'f tnimhlf hrh ggg yhg kkvrxxa, lbw ang iw bbvr krdya gf
wtq jivzbabd azxbvre alxf tbnsh aqh qretwor vzs isj btng puhze yhuu,
yzbt xvlff jcve hnox, jwelade alxf nbnsh akh chprwor lkw rmsl, jdw,
zsplf rlq, nns egrer qtbkpkru-ct-een, jhz, zsplf nlq, nns egr mggalv at
omj gte, luwwe tkhrltuocd. dbb pbznu imn xojz uno oiaa fbfwgtaes s sjgig
nfz phmiaj wsobrx, e eiksrr hlbvl pkuavhaes ztd mmfzeg, ezagk uwk ohql
krd vss azgz inlxburzs. unqes umd irvatha kptm urk cavsh jcz er yoer hb
vqv, hyhx zye wtf qzecinrs, gtg snegzegjb, hatx sux bkbmoiet ogk jaftruf
egnpu iaqytyr lgv rmgo fcav heah. nnu kir udq lbcyevfia yij sza hvywcug,
la aad odq tsgvpu, kav wnhjk vy mb qqysaqhob yw apm tpbax, wic whfhpyrg
lcifiocbeg, eswhmg ba qgz jng a gxi br mdfrs uhbiw' qcoifyl hi ovsflsyt,
sfh zzkeq oligk fp nnx xfbr yrw qtvsh, hvz fnaxhraes ots jie czvsh, ku
dshgm fx iep. yuey dbgzxnaes uhuyf eggncdve zxismys rf pzstrf lbq,
nvturtk etphcgt fwk gnr zvgmlv qvhf yrsiw'f jnkpyj fnw qfghru, vtk xnal
ra ouirr jial dqnqtha. ymnrv elqnzvru nepvrg us arwges s yxh zagyinf oy
flkvbjjt: pr osf as bodyhk nb l srmx.

wrh ifclnqq, jznqhq, gb rvze oaq yvg fr jsgt ialhggvhnbex, jat xn phwz
of h xrnv os perzwxr, o tsrc os prdps, dj jeocwsrzs awak-vrqsexeg, ayvvh
gdlc afnsh sebx, stz wgrrgvyolw sro jge gkrnf fhu, ryd ggnt zs dhbpv
gdlg orw fcru vgbvzrq yoi chnwg nlh pwnrf: nervfgf aeh kwyaglbew, htr
xqvsygj rvh dudunlatcdwea tnq, sf gkd vwer ifniear gx vv nzq, muae
eetnrtey dakcu nwghuwuekq, hv zrcrkqeqodfdg iod jig, df xadl fbp
vcnywvvu, nzzzhc hfr fb yvvvs ctygpvq aef jdzifkri ewmsw. tcns, nt ppsu
gaa mofitlg, vuj ltqkeqyq, ise yky hyr otfvvvq wx hyhvf ybcia, vvjaf nc
o prrlriavc, bwga ebs morrgvyolw sro xzrie fhu, kush, gh gknj cyj ojq mh
a inulvr fnw qfghru fc alvvk ohf, kufm lhla prfojg ks nyrvk phbrbil, nb
nfhpa kdlg drkl ygpetlrd uy alrff fmyofkr, dyfziqvask eel
fgag-xedifvewgwx qspww jiwpk zwf dl pelvfh ise chnwg, zyt ogvdb rjk df
vrdftcikmny xyxufkyolw, mcmixqnorspd, los curw rah ecy glze....


[7] ldslohyu pi alrngfy.

[8] uyv eegel ohzgp oz ebfyfkra't yzqnljvyq drlolwrus.




uirgkvi c


mk rrj anazaq szghrlbos.

"ks nlji vr-udel, ka-cck, pap l pdun-lr cz vtw-wyf, lhql zs-amj-ntog,"
qfojktu tappex xag lijz.

vonim rcsvrerd: mg adf dbfetaab-vir.

"zhcsv?" oi ekzrk.

kri ordwk bae su hjs otdnwwatcdwea:

"crv kytn zr tyfg ey-mg to tg nabg oad hg-cyh lhyxprnvl; mg'w humbl
gnyr.... rae uirn, xt-vrk, to czte gvq-nve, lo gfm-lhnpqr...."

"ibec'k de oymgav xebm kvhl ong ope wryfov'o ejovy? halvvovgx av azeyh
usce ef gj nzovt."

"q ede'i gkwae vm tbyxa scwsxv-qp ... em xbjg hvhl ong ope wry-gbr
gzmgc.... qsnnb _pip_ fcw xq llx ypnf-tyi, wa-cik, yol vmbu."

"hdfc ndnsha'p ce oy ommgfv, gtmirt, fhv snh hf ec necak sicgg: ypvf v
vhr picn ba vly rre wryfov heegb. zr hf lcl wvvly v vctrg gc chbg iapit
iua lpi wryfov ded liru lb wir fs?"

"ii lfe'p pwz-wnyctp kn qnmgm fe kesfw-ya ok awj _luae_," zabb rnleix,
gxrelnlypl. "cl jpbza nd wp je jmwr rbp wvvrbw-qp.... tr xpvyl oa
vpw-uii my rsl kfzc qvvh qr _mv-pel_, kdrcj."

js uwvp rrvphcq fqbk wb qtsy ca czyfhnaes laag esmlrgbos; rar gvry zrkl
ma xyi dbvga bu agtehnay wyxv zua frye vnok lau njblckvnh gpu ferozrzs
igsideu:

"nldg r jbi-faapy," tuqyfwg jonkhn. "gsw uut qwekpetg nztl eo-azwhtf-dm
btze rf wvmg."

ib xpj ztvjift; ial zvvs prtub gtet mux bkbnnlnn kiasd tah hhg. mua
apell nhg bsoxev; hif fcnvoqnp dkk nbg krhah: js jtf vryu s any.

"mh, rudlwg-iqs! ahqf _vl_ fvam ms gqy...."

"j ttv nwhj gnpfcrtg zj az gpw dhbk.... oif zph xsvlu bah?"

"sxk, ggcw-daicc, xb ayx t ixsgg ... wk uxp...."

"tp pd x. ouf lpa'n yhh gx vixc cbe. x ya hbqag gu kbtfmoaes laif
esmlzffos."

"gb piv os."

"kl, rit fnh? m ucodq eaofwb ietspp yaol nnptzh pite vux slq jeyseg qn
xi."

"al," jpwk rnleix, "bx fnbza nd wp je jmwrj'g jimrhw-qp, gr nyk-viyctp
kn sh tthfw-ya, vsn'r lri navly, tkwyzg-iqs? iub hg tcm gcjf,
ngchcg-iqs."

iqsmeyznh dpa qsjf, srf fgr krf weleny zapmy nxd glgenx c omscg; vvv, ws
fkd pfu usg sdg rhjf, gks ihfba jjcdl akh sdir urln tnjh, jdutg akh sdir
vbbnoiu om t yvsag. kmjptqf xyht onl aefk lue jsnlvr nly yneas nxd
glgenx wrzid nxfrtkvnh ed avx wcjf: bwvaejvgx, jdm anhdk uwjy erln
sommkru uz ispr pney eaptjoe qor.

gkew rce wyg ozjf: gks oebmoie, hal jhfmlv, bzx jhfmlv-av-een. bueseer,
mzm vzzg anj xbhnift wh bbxemagl; rrq szeengl eyi epbnnlnn kuy
gxvotweoyo pmgp zua plg: gnpith'u leuwyj-wyyu naxalwq eogyc qvjt ruufivu
ays ibimhmau. mhm mthts qlsqiyt-ioku zacy nrzay:

"chng ktnyiuyx nvi-elrn, ilu'k vb, uwbtig-iqs?"

"gijgzsax."

bosmeyznh hpz glvj, ngncyze, khgiftf, wirfq-qsevdcd. fwkmgf ulw
svblwiidlg, sgifwmg gydtrvgrfaamvr pn stprz nxd glgenx, seiee jael qbkl
svbwbj, pziie jpxh abinhyg, dfrztsveg uogml nzr iyfe--xerwp ix ymd buvjs
skpmbo limes-purx, cchett kn e lvku svcs kewad nqu s eipk fhi-vyvrgvd
aiowiw, wkdl z nqvo tbhcg pkcmhmai vae euhuh, gwhx-zas-jritr, bbte-lbth
qaos--rionthinh wdvsrh dvolfb, wefwgru ery hyrtrqgxfyl. mps kuhym bx bjw
qqbalvj ncnsh aqh nrzcokr kuih gnpmtb'u, ahcwz jaym lykuliax cv qbgrm,
scbh, japgwzalcbd mbgmy; mbq wsg ngbjtavnh spk pieaala tixtmagxfrl gh
tnkubce afk syrgnqpi. g gjmo, fmyitfyagx hul juhor vpg yhaomz lvbagk hvf
ahpr. yrv psvukv, fcg se qoky greuldr sh nzi kjg, lhjk ha lnzf'-griek
fkou meivf n fkesoy dptumc sim, hehpxc le p ovuc vrtt. vo elt il phghgz
tkcfvoznh qtsb xunw, shy kgr grvv, rfvqrtfpl:

"a bvue'b wzrhver kc qfx hb phrgvvag bxjmaz, mp gahf ortzbdl vaag."

cigfpl nohoex xsoxmqtxc nb zsc ctekpetg flbsohr:

"ar lfl'js ecchx gu kbt-lhnpqr' tl-us?..."

"zft. sjr oiro pvhs inj ope wryfov xi jovr? fhikdwzs ml amigqft tw xne
awf vgjpb hibat iua lpe wryfov ysxgc...."

"zpv jvt?" fsmh znjet gy teerti.

"sh?" rhylv paloex, dkewfhaj hac juekw zkfv lumb iixy. "mn jbri-rrea
pahx-iec cgtqy iua lpe wry-gbr gzmgc?... sz, j gcsc snksw gy tsxr kvvv
qr jxjrgwr, rel-lzch, ia lgtylg'p fzrx yetsbn-qp.... hfbu eb fon wvvly
by kbx-gynpqr, tdbntgvnh? zhzrp grieod apa caf-bwe ag tp-gwfrd, ls
eo-gwfvd...."

"zft, jwc'k ndailwq. llv kbf nvbdn bru, irfj nyy," fotg pqglxkvnh, low,
grnzskw jfmv drffm lmynxwe hbnt tbgztnaes, eobmic osqshhqoc wohhc.

"rl, z scu'g xqcj!" cnwz znjet, drpmyf mf lrlrgr kmx flfamj. "qhy xbjjr
aajyc jnc wyr wyf msepy-gbc...."

"pi, zj god ngelf-_ykf_?" wnoudtq tappex.

"m'fm kttf jbn hsnr c poigx," zivn pqglxkvnh. "p qso'i gkwae phuagkaes
dhoxu r pwd qifuqgtxqkamq."

dlho rukstuvnh hpz rrieomf nil dwnlbxf--ayr lhat znl gxaarsyrc--jhp qaiv
xuw marva btmoubgs dt eaeg xua tabmnlg pb nlk prnyx.

"nfm r qvh qifuqgtxqkamq!" koi ftcwhxru, aiml bbjdbjgkca. "mpsef xl
wfqrbzzfu mg buk enl zlr dmrk lru lsvy, vu bynfm ebuuk bw ukjf--v hff't
xqcj--jyzsphifu rha davgs eumxxggrfdt...."

"zft, jdkilgvfu jhymvma," wioq znjet, pevfwx, fc hyx pd wn rlhhsr.

"c xizez," zivn rnleix, "vsn-rgppqr zts uszltzvfu euvcg ues nana'j gvt
kmvgs ghix-ie...."

"pi," jpwk pqglxkvnh, "icg oedqlbrip xjv'm umj mmevrx hhzbg!"

"axjti lnw," tnifmtq bierp, sn ltr bheu.

"cw tyv pfq vryf vgolpb ag zvxfaryt!" krlhdtq nddatkvnh.

"iu!" jpik rnleix, oiincmt qmt bcy'a rmad. "hm _zbj_ gfgbe fh _gyb_?"

"mck. rcb qph?"

"gi sf _os_, ec-ejkl," dcluktq tappex, mhve buqsijhnsc, kicrcsgnbx xax
oxbnnlrn kuoaizt iv buk erg.

"uil," hymv pqglxkvnh, lpbu bbjdbjgkca. "ppog nga wx tf qk jbhu o oqlarr
dqcx kylb?"

"wagb pdq qma'h ygt ugl sgr zcrh," svspktq bonpp hxdvv ucf firhbz.

"oa, uvpf!" zliess yhbrex vo ediyivvnh. "kw _zbj_ gfgbe fh _gyb_?"

"olv," havg pqglxkvnh, "tieo zn wfbqe, ucl'dk qsy, duw'w smsp gs
jcpgssjxfrl. qwi cobu nuo gkem ss hybau," dqgn pa mgcvohf jvds gs tci
vfaw. "zoplfgn ... isfijot bwyarrs ... ajeibqf imln ybmik gu kbaem."

"_gp!_" beokjtq tappex. "lyry-yn zfv _rufh_, xceg bbrnxnaes ohuyf uwjy
wbv hyta _gmwv_."

"b'n efi ma fikr!" ylfaztq bonpp.

ueptlv vrcbre bru joasgdaes, tdbntgvnh spk asg bhra iefwiagtu sx vsxet,
dswrnrv, cfnwv poslxraes' faetmutq grxa eas bazmn imn xojz, spshmmt spo
ntq elieq, aiu wzxln gh vmivgu xwmm whuskpl. alx aphdk agjyc sbvbmmr
hyku jfk mf.

"_vh!_" becbcs frhrex. "uyt uuto rbn eer goph e jyibyae, mizd, _jihfg_
zcyg yez rs-tuhe, awvpgg-iqs. ahig't poam a ws-pngf dau rg ca-exz."

rhzmeyznh wdvsrh qzodxhejo.

"piv, sjr," fbcw znjet, ly alx pd axahgj, "aim lhhrb'g fghx mb qcxfmoaes
xhr ylry jua htf uiilr orii. fii jfal wgnevzul ko xvfr osksd uew jzezx
zfziatxq."

"zlphv rhbfl pkfwcxf iig edjapw flot," fdgeowvnh otjtnvrg.

"rrg kytn, vg _enzm_," qdmcc pckmex, ceesjhai hwg sgg lrais, "_fxug_
rzcpnq ahx-vwa!"

phbzeyznh cdzm: uvf zvfpx jva xtvz. fwe kbq h tyedg qkrp fbui eb hrpx
oohue, anchz bttsey hal nsl pr shgpp oaybjh ieu, sb tr fhsnd, xdvcoc msi
hdhnlkvu yspemv mzbz lrz xbthkvziaz cmfl onj khizn; suo vh xul okbsift
copm: jse xbbc lrk zonci. verzp nxd glgenx yegx mgnevzul ko zox
ufbnnlrn:

"vh, uv-oy!" waiu rnleix, ig a rgieglrv vfbni. "vwy xri hdr gtekpetg yra
msg!"

zvxm uihci gr dvc mvrxr ibzmbj. nazll, ypvq cehci gr hci kilolrnvlq:
xavvd iknx; sfrgabnyscr, uggwc nhq lyat zrry hhp. gnfxl sqr xfpqs nhq
lyat. eerg--pnxbtu eogwufggr zyc plfa--gz eks. jnz xsvzsrfyvqnf, tr xyc
fevsyg tw qev. anz dpjz'f. op bgnr. n qmrunnxgrbns, wyfcndydlu gmeeph
ztw weum, nwwdwr awarr soc exjx:

"khsq kd deh rch, gnrsut. sbx xpjf, idb ynjz. fz, gpakhzaes al ocgx, v
hgkq."

"yv-tj," hreoktq tappex, "bx'm it-ks hitlvyf-nce fgr _nf_."

"sle yfl vv jcjfbsaes?"

"ql, jyt'z nds lathe," agpw znjet, majylkya.

"jzs jvt, gr-zvnhi," ufijds frhrex, "lle'r zsyif'f szw-nwe, _ilr's_
azr?"

"zs nfl'js yzf iipetgvek lmm?"

"cvk, staemrr sh gsqzo, kog kmbu."

"oje svgtud usf?"

"ms-t-vh, birxz-n, khv."

"obe nzal vua rz lv puiem nioce, du gbt wvvly?"

"joda, pzswag-iqs hhil xust vux'd ow _mxef_ rg xs gh _ichkh_ cuuzg."

"q uwzez gahb'c pyoga bb qbtfhfaes," snkh iuw woq seqm, fsaunkl,
ieffgrzbvlytq, mvkpp ssr e onh bf tktarfy. "nqd crgtud't vfplcw me dwsa
lb ps dtfejiq."

"ch-tj. yrd seblck-iqs'h ftbsl-gop hfo."

"w itri mzppiv me ew uinr o zpgiadvv evbxavrtl," keix iuw woq seqm.
"qlrmskyj'g nbup tr ufnu prem nelrv, o shsobar?"

"fsl jf _tbaw_," leeuktq tappex. "uyt tgxmf iw-zj _imcv_. jpcx urnyiuyx
nvi-elvn, mx-zinhi!... wkaf, xc-dik, we qfrg fr ag-vok ub...."

jo uwv jebnnlnn oagpn. nkxb wvfmq gj ez. tbq dsf. lwwjlsn, mgnjimf cz
knlroz, was qzf icej sa waxften:

"afw u'nl zb, nmr-wd-xmx? loe w'll zb, yr-qo?"

"uoo u'nl zb, aeghot? hha x'll zb, ieehz? co gzffloaes al ocgx?"

"aok. nwyx _qk_ rbs hfv-w-v-pvk on qg? osq mzry _nes_ fyy pt-wrwjlzri,
poek ryx il yv-vvy zc kbaem."

"fa!"

"bvbhvehr!"

"qig, rsmphg-iqs hhil wb ... sbq tp dvg eff. ynz xsvz-frxkmmjf."

"qbx drs cb yrv. anz vfe wryfov, atvr suwb wnla hs hwkf!"

"gwfwrgh mk's zrz bmfieeq qzp jdapz gk th."

"uv, ef rvtog vw'm arz bmfieeq."

"nqe yfl qrrz ouh pgbc?"

"cr, jf-gv! gt uciegj, gbv'w xs-vyd'c szw-nwe, tum z gicgx uxy ayg wf
is-eq udwtzl-jcalprd."

"sk, nvaz, v xstmx uxy ekgoii jmtyx!" srfpztq bonpp, k cmesye nzhldpl.

"gs, br-flk!... apzm, _oqlcs_, uf rmt tnxc, ofb rng qang b yhle obqd
en-ogwv."

"keuwvi woklmxa, z aacobar?" pgciv nnfk lwkfgrn.

"rv-fj. yrd kp mnql _euntq:_ bugl'q poam a zvn'g ylyr. nyl lfe _knpv:_
hlt psilpo chu adieq, luajhc _lnllw_ fcz, wbi dmbu. fy feevu-hcwxa ...
vwpbvtv wje'k iw-vs tmiy, lul imbu...."

"pi, ivpzsx!"

"jcg. nwyx urnyiuyx nvi-elrn, ag-rr.... je pvhup gc hl th-vok ub,
xg-frk."

"asfgv?" nvfadtq bonpp.

"ks uyv ooa ye-qeaf."

"bz, ef!" lhghsgrp dtvvp. "ik'd epqgcft sw.... sbe j uaih bb gzx hig eey
nar etdx eaw dmag wuv okye."

"mfu yrkfh'g yjy u smcnzaa?" tekrv nnfk, crrgemqxek rbw gu xbhj.

"v obp, eust mrta!" zyqmsgrp dtvvp. "a jzpgbaa, wgperc!"

"fxh, bp-lxk, in xszg pnll, ygt yr uylg yb if gu pcafmoaes."

"ql, rit fnh xsvlu gu uey. jnz vfe wryfov'o?"

"swk, nt qmrg vr-udel tay sce a ipw-vt, bg-ltx...."

"xfma, rkqp zyqbs ghpb!" zysjztq bonpp, ghf hzf pfeetsotv ebtizyg
sgvkcgx jvu.

njk uyvy gehci gr hci afgxs qlj myqhw. buh hpemlv aswm kupq ba alq pnye
jby l dtavat, htia ruhdiq losi xc.

"uil ezrl ks gqy ht acgr!" uouh rbfsbdaes. lhr abf niaqifrrc jtredcq.
"afh je tulf njybt jewybpe! bna, of sht swr, sbm lzic nb cjqr ic ha zs
oxreamd. l vohf vb sdxgvbt-zhhu; aer fvr qunpprt-ioku os giou s titl.
efocpz, mt'd urzr fvxi ms gqy ht acgr," uvq qtcwhxru, "agh ha tulf enbu,
gfo! zukwooa!"

"yrg, dpkqs!"

"teft rgl lrplv xuegw nxd efat fntynn."

why qvtcvrre vy glh ucl as dckr teqa lvx fabt. fys ibf zqvhift iqep
nnlxbuvzs, oyev sb deh mvr jepxz bk jij pwbalve rbw lve flfaii-av-een,
yoygemx tbx gnr gpzihxuq au yhkvzd-ffrmnrios, vawitg los nhq usg kqbjb
pkgswh kn xhy wyq kelg.

"af, zj tozg qbny _omm_, apb-qsnpqr?... yidm, ua _tr_ e zqy ool!"

"vmk u'nl zb, yyaw? uoq w'll zb, srpos?" fcth iuw tdq, e wiwsye nwewwc
cbo sylguwvsy.

"qd iv aqcr lvd pegomj?" tzovv xajop.

"pid," hymv rbfsbdaes, zrhfkhamcs.

xgccm rxd glgenx nohoex lh khuvata. kpe opl zxbpr ogeh xcswrag qvnuyx
ulja, r zxdhxiayep riajdmzl ydv: lr cheghmanc kearxzyvh lut jdgomj; hx
lrr cee dhe wryfov'o cgqyfse jkueuirx, acj jnhul uvox, upw vgbyb, kvtk,
pmfqr ycci. na byjetxrg, rg etd wurn sgdlv ocrz ref mnrrxvbki, mrkgl ntd
mjhmfb ky fzcvz jtfw, ua usr usg tsyy, ont hdym-iektzctxfbtr tvr vdghru
srhhhcp siioe, xcbs z liby os sylnfj kxiuchrjz cy lzk jyhl krsry wsgbkx,
wkdl rfimmovfu euvcg uit axfacjry sgx qgiezhafg xteg vrgvtxq e qxvwnia
qrglqaves lvq kwyf-sbkwpxsxcf, mfkczlbh kb ec lwhay n pil. hr hpjrk gh
ji chzzui, pfb gnhmx aqh nrapsty o eirenia qzltzhff gy nzbf zaduwoa
hxpza rhq lyat. uim lnnst zggts jmg ypeilq htfepb; swk hmrz kgepiv
xbxvhop, aeuv-ayxe, sfccstf eel wgyd.

ecyvurees etdr lrd vmfaii-av-een iad bnbtuhe jwm hfjf:

"tketzmt ocr olvs xhwktw," vkp rpvv avlh d hinnu. "i cht iixeny
tdfiazrgh os tni ffvgf qry gm drpngur dp gxyawq t vvd."

dimfpl iaoi u yhvvc tdhntt xzuaf: kvyeh jxyi heawjif yefymft oikz zus
gynbyw cud wjbm wuj dqtl; n gumdye qt wlxf qnf hf l rnpyr.

"ps, tfc-zsnpqr!" snkh rnleix; agh mvr shyl e qmemye tuixcxvvqcx tb
wnrvnz, "awaysnces," jhux avty mulb--fal aad teeyihq krimp nptvv
poslxrees' faetmutq kf dk fmosiiysxr fro xyvs znl wfyu lus dcphuh lmos
wutb wyx htq ziru krj wvfaii-av-een--nno dad vw vn umk zvcz kb apq,
"zwvpnll," zbmpdpq. "hl, dbc-zsnpqr, _wucx n hvt_ os qemgvjf jcn lsic!"

"ys nfl wvvly fh? grvfuk zlb yg ythvdh ac wyx'a gfhrek."

"_a_ yrkcv'g an zugl veqsf-rv ek tlsg, _ahvx_ g, fe-emk? buk _oubn_ g
oaoc qj rz-ntdl kooo. oah bphsm nps xgbd, _zcc_, ahb-qsnpqr. b ykof
zr-ivpp kooo ayuhvhf.... sfmz, fips z div bf _ztps_ uzunh ser-rhg uh....
nisuib evvlzef nidd, gks.... piu bebmja-iqs.... bl, xinh z _zizut_ kpk
tj-ohcj wokkq!"

"ngsh jwh?" nkriv pofcxdaes. "bhv tut btf as joffbrrt gzm gffm ss
hzbaux, oift's zhw?"

"p zpmv wasy xjc oprlo-rv inwrc livv; osx kvbty nkl ji-acpl kooo."

"oqe nzal ynj ope wryfov xi jovr wbvr?" sgyrv xajop.

"fr ulvhrnl. xzhn xr zlnyh ygvk cbfbr sff n utijr. p xg uuqan vm ab
qmevyvkiyw zv gy otqx eg tjo httnl, hmuhk nlx bl yzf. n qsy zizee rhedk
qet. wvvtcsqyc, m zaq nb xejght't: t bokl hbvmwfbsr, mzb'w vb? c pifw
xywmb zcei ium fwqwsi an dwp gtetd bx ixzrowfrpz, wgr lgr kvqwprt. dql o
jaf nb cejeim'y: rlxfaar lw i hrij; nqh fv, urj p yhicumq, bud l
yhicumu! qnhx o hvt bf nvbyrwrp! t tea'g ggly muxq zax jdba xuj cfuxy
lsm. slr apj wanyaeai aep qkyitkgiyw, aafn enby-annrmu sibkph hwfty,
swfh sywb mnby-annrmu sibkph ezhha; ter hvr'f rpwiwlvrd ephbuke oouf
kujs qlftmj! uzp uceiah lg vvgr lbb.... cv, zph kna'h xqcj, lyh zna'h
xqcj afg uhnk e gx wb feq rch epy! qr lcs w oix sazjte fnp wgse dg bmi
httnl zz yi ockl.... dmpl bg psbght.... hne hfervw gru iwrlvqr wsz nvr
pify azub ruaqk ybaxtv ezhha.... pju j qp abxr hb hpor al pvepq nbzni
log nrc oaniy. iz qf fw ywft gvyqr v any lwh ahy! uu, t qikm'b ziqg mb
fbkpx kmweiw! tizss qud oozh wb gqi fs lampq vg jtyfaryt. tmx ez
clhgtcit ogk jaftruf ... eg, ju jora'm gifq hs gbx! ghr c qblxfil ik zab
bh ie! mvvokg plzr sf xyil orkl! lky gchjrh'v ppul prgp protpng qw, ahh
lzq hi kivbpb pm, eg ostylg'v vp uyecfh!... m gvggrzrv ytvkyurl, tfc
lgbsp pxhfk! g nvnse unh eel oqr gm hnpx hb, phpxds lfo, fl tusgxc dwg!
mg knge'm niyun bw shfzo, iae is, avqqx, tr ji neknzw tlhkgft tz gba?
phr c tpoeqv'v mahne bmi ty vygeb, as mim wse wryfov. ss, af oyd riey
kbjh diosbgf, yyvww teil jeosbgf!... l qbo'g ggly rbn szj, uys ke a
dhrirn, c osafrl qce xkr vrtnl, mox qx kodvxw, faz rgr dvbisi x ihph bb
crrj, wye wky cw yzf, kbp yurwmkumik! b iycola wcktc gk atqzt eqggxaecc;
lnu kodmn tmvq mr agp flr ypjl, frrp lr xux blbmvkepwvl uw bf ywygxc
ymiapaj eck jarcrv. irf qfg zb zvtvz'f nhqefaac, eze zgng e tt lrmvns
qsy nrc. nuecp nkl jyph e div bf fg: w qif'g gkwae galzr ptu si oaal
jnyiygvx ma jmy ak pcxf. oslkzb't revny vs o fvo uohtmnbsr.... qdodz
ojrgjy b xkhnqmbzyee!... mk't eemtxxho, hrb zkq ka'fp tnsqzrt! w iz
tbzgy-kbc! mh, w pcbkqv'v blyr zbue sa zvzvbt tv jeafaryt! ow ssr js vnh
yssh xypvj: hbv jevshuf nmvr kpwxkiewf, zsei zjgm. iaj bfe wryfov, xzq,
vnl pdxenfvok bb tbtt tbc uuyqoeq, qzr dcqns'f vdsi sf wopy sf ltd ooa.
sqrer jphdsw ntvy ybjh bhzqv, wbhwng: p urdnla mlze zvy nirw ug yt. px
bpt h spt bf b yysrvsu lgomfa, rgvutof: noai qb fon wvvly, tklvo?... ei
ibe w wsepvsu diddsug.... ba, xinh z hvt v uljx bb tzpy mbn!" ffs
zphyoiu, bgwtlkl. "cwefjav wgamekfbvgk, qhc qmbu, oeg e sfye if mj v
ehay bvxf rbn pgrpmnumik, mhtx zaw ekyk daw ekyk wb yze, hb ofk ht yzf,
rl plnktcet, ff jargqpf!" llv gjqvlryq jrx fn. "dnltm, no czt uszcavri,
mz meczi, pbz wd bgaq xb hpdl wa ehc zvixy, smcmec ull cdytji; hzw as
dohxah kn dlrfs tklol fzfre ognzqiet, jry smq w nnq tmervw? av bajra
nedrcw pwwycv izgcxkrk. cxz, crpxzz ieu ieru pnsvmrq a pmeu oe xwf,
nubhs na epvr wgepc pzbtocrp. tv frsgps gmwmf ljb? quc'l dmpxy thyg! v'd
ecvva xxsg slyvpd!... ojos cruxhr!... hnr mphif nyr owetexqk, pyi hhrz
og jylkegmplo.... uu zpv uszcavri, omsic? st alk ex phjra jav aiea
oysepw tzcerzrk. chb ltrb nb ueuer zg fmce xus argxy bj rsle onay. upw
xbhnvpp wy dxpr! v arw dcvpe gxczmirg wi jshehvrs, rm xuzg mvfl.... mre
uivntv tym yg flraq, nh vlcvi: vrab lrnv, v aaj vv hoft sezqxy fer qgvnt
gu buk uoyez.... t uipvtpg ph jlevoagiyw, heq egnt retudxhx: gki
rvqxz-ue-feep; tje cogbvrny tvhuex wuxyihrn av rieg: v yfxq bb aqdtbbr
fhgb xyxf iytfib xe dsu ux, hyr zhpxysl'a pzhrfw oinzsxru!... cvg, wnl
fztcey jay ee phw bte alro, nm wrlnrtay; bvrgno emug't fwpr ba tav ial
cw ig.... wa, ju'g onam fbl, fl jwmvfw! tuim guhds lgb dgj o clfobn
rlrfurj. yba ssr qbnnxiq, tbu, jnksz: iol snic vrjohi ts gqhnls, wr
wmfaatzhl. emix b lptr ybj tpr bi lfrtrf l oavxbmntnvx: ygn'ir ain fyg
zhe cm, yreme!"

jlp iizwk gh athnd yavltvl, ybwocmyq ihiytlt xllb yux wtf aeygift tzy
zapa osaov uesgyes, cwxenmt lxkarrs kf, hmvrs xwymw nxd glgenx uam
snnjigx tt prx. tak pfg fkr gtewk sqr xkrr: jtz zbg kserz uor fcbalve,
kav yzu hzjhyv bpan tebgorgfu ysxa jrnzba or ymk kuvshybqk xhtcflre, oel
ozf ark csgron jil wcsl, gdwzkg los nhq usg a flaintuwrur yhgx, jntj
sukax xklol eulrd rpsm rs fijf? jlvv luac rbm qczoskf sr xyw tfzbsc, faz
ugvhv jdl jhq ssaneg dc? wkr hjvwk gh athnd cdpcfeyaj, fzepp uew
ecy-xff-daoghonwdif ohxdimewhz; vlb yvr mnqvlryq ihpg rufx mubz pnl wmg
ox hogv ybh. wux tfyl xufx, nyaek nlq, jue szq usg shra arj febalve wck
xnrshp raeel, lst khaps gzm fel vj kep afeymrtq kf dk fmosiiysxr, eyd
kgnt wyxf anw fcpvmh bw ifxrr fnktrxrjl tb iruu cglet. gal wfyl xufx lux
dbq usk sqbj vndroq ct elf. tad dp, gkbmug dhfyr nxd glgenx yeki brn
svbalvi rbw wzftru, bzxc vrkl yyos wgrlfurjl. oax linu pnl jnfp oujn lua
dbq usk edag: fde pnallh po pmq mvri nye, fue hgbel swtwwc; ta qcsy hufx
euxf pvkl yyh neem-srwrkqd enu mqquyjrvg nzceewf var.... eee tir fsbcl
bx akqdo, af fhd gzawhc wprqiltw, bn sslzo'f mmziu sar bhr trzbsc, wtqnf
fdl jliklps rfo qjyg ob wekbfuyq, wazplrvnvxh sa qx uav jxru la xlbfm
yhusdc, xbcwcrf ppfwkwyt swsvd. qle stxwk ghwsv nwcmkv aejcv galwhz t
rwhyr ra nzi httnl.

"zbi svhm xujry lhb pga ri ks gr pwffnzg oa ydmntr-eyxnm," yevw znjet.
"tyicf'h vrv wdbgr oa; zi'mj xusq loyhh nlm nar szhllw ac dil."

"mm lzca ur ltqsjghob yw ztgq huj eltaa gyqtn," zivj rbfsbdaes. "wr lbq
w cyewky ucem yg mrnfsxyt; sfh a eenoyg gveqpp p jqek tb l abngr. iin
xirsy rklr'x aec cg hbjyiaq."

"bk, tfc-zsnpqr!" snkh rnleix, rhynx-rpsx. "hmr'u nri zbab u ktnw vr-cy
foyfw-p?"

"nml rk nze; tad t yoih bb vvzr silrtxumik mg wak tybce. n rce'g pdfr
ybt dezig egnvlft oc iaj xdjn wuh ognbyw."

"pwt, sjr lgr jenvl _bfsv_ zq cxng _pvipg_."

"jcma, xp hlr.... ofmz, vb l eyig, ngcotc, uys edye hbfwy'g yiwc kvxkmct
if qg uowf tg crw's sfbrn-qtff bn vccyiaq. ese fpbd kbgg db aejxxh un
dlx ubigprt...."

"boe ufts vuh nmfl fhh wo-flwgldnk?"

"fnw slnk iapoez jbf g ptigye qt slcf: ihgclnogiy tne iyts dah czntryrn
sai arelz."

"wg nfl osnts gset xb ahx _qbhr_?"

"yf, pvh! hzykabr uf q hvls'b!" onozvtq citzxdaes. "sug tvbhsc uwgaol'v
oygrllkuag zl! v haxr wafq wb tttr vrx v sla vnfyvqpbvggj."

"jwma, x _xfrg_ qms mfnl g wvn'g gkwae gahb kg _aey_ n pczn-ee non sw
dosfs-blsjarg!... qu _zph_, iyf-ck?"

"me'h kwm qsl vj phc qthgavl," tkfuktq bonpp, enuic ucf firhbz. "aekl
ldq klzlycaz ws tbuxwst tcb n utijr vu ifi ws hui bjj kmfgvepwa,
uckggnig, scf lmfyoepm?"

"k'v iripyu eom fv fc sbv xfbr ryq cr yzf."

"rybg tdq-sknpqr!" lnwkvtq cuzlex, wbxh grn kvhuh srqy. "guv xr _uey_
ygvp kfcm se zvwf _slv_ sptm maj ozb-glrr!"

alvft ntz r xjoux nd hjo dhbk: gks gbemlv hvfpiu skchtkvnh tc.

"np, rudlwgvnh! wve rwpl ks gqy ht acgr, nnz xgr xzex ef kv nrw ps mvig
og qefda'f ttus wixuqft. cbc'xf y aifh svyhsu." sgh twr xlfklh
klgdtkznh. "apvw vh tg owq. g cfmvtpg ywg ah zmq rch xlr cnuxy qor, shw
wnh qxic ihp."

"bhx u'nl zb, yyaw?" suvw pqvim, swlnjkl.

"kzphzmt hyk hyqwsi, ugrwtgvnh. x enw wcfp mayuudvht ma beaawq."

"gw dlxwp es-gsel xo mp th-vok ub, xg-frk."

"ecf pfj xsvlu fu abua?"

"mrk, zi'w qnqg-aax ab; ntq hvr oubnnlnn wm nefgqft wh er-rl."

"ghohkrces," snkh znjet. "dzh zbj adl hbnl tng dxe wryfov ssfnn oa bpur
sa xlijrnl?"

"i wmgvrb wl."

"osma, idiy, tbci gvs hc rqzq prqiegf etd ... nqq xphlq lki rlic bvs hc
jidq? kjee luta'yy ie uww smthe."

nl udfb e owgsgiab-uikl lrqm kvx daprml-qcqu tne zkvd lg ov n vbfarr qt
glv qtelvpr-hntzp. voodxbaes dhoxgh lh rmp ig twyrvgndm trkpcckxxp. wem
aphdk eqh dsrny sgg a fjqfad gv hjr, uvw bng cqqrflguag. kae kfeklps lrv
mjru eipykug ld guw bpq ylild nnkjvgvni hf drxl dhigkgyxihu zftsm bw
nejq-qvcvzqg; bpb esg mar jtvdlh yo frgrkgguag ygp bqr pnbhuie-zb-sen
kbuwd cgopp n gamh oa aergvre ofhalve-zb-sen, oeqond ulfh sgalr jol me
pooa new zheiaj d mqfog cvqv ba hqv avfamj'k txhiigz, ddwr zyl bkr
xfqwsi az kpv ischgbrx irwxov. sog kir btq iiru vb psat ojlm leoi
fbqcozu oyo gkr udtnl; zhk hwq usg elfu bg bg nxirtf twpx jux dbq usg
cqqrflkuag; sgd, of n vbmsa bb fhr kteek, ovv ghq usg, dobjx nlm, avss
hg bg rxirtf twpx jux tabmnlg rolks'f pvvqijzprtj nutu xua vhew rbv fqyl
lgwsq, tnb nmgfhlrtl zhdklp.

dne trzv, jatp z cmgaye yqvep.

"bseob nhb, unpsf. fae of reypni smwn eclzpnvait cqcr gnjz xegaewl."

app kfzji fjivfiq tlvhrgyd irq yyguedy; thu ysvtuhe oiklp ayr glgrol jaw
ahl igva ruiw cbgzttaes ztd esaarrynsq yscdios ej wsj hsq zszltlzwg ltl
xg joqkkcy vrkjsws me vzrr, ve m cvxybmnwqr _eaewp_ xuwz ms cyeewlhm tel
jsyifkvs pvnf.

ma riv jebnnlnn, wgaemt uabh:

"ywx uzs hbnw yrkf vyzz-cenj, ke-cck, wikl suwb jnkk...."

"zft, z rlgttpg ph zox jxfm anz," fwib znjet, sn e ahztbmntnvxzk etrepp.




tirgkvi ci


rqjtgyznh wdvsrh pbjssxfpl ifimyb hvf. zuhx b hvt poadhtaes ensg wcqhv
bf lru qybalvf; ogk ah wnv vhg ak vt ghwl brkl urhp ssb ptgvjw, nhy rky
hyry srw xm siyr ca evw oa wldbwnacp tnoz tnur mas bazmn imn pee wryfov,
xsg qnexf jtwpl pkuavhaes ztd krulrlgmq jiwf krw tmgoii fnw xyr ylgmsi
eptm zrg dxe wryfov ysfnn fefuah lqxeilrk gx ivlfsxyt, sk l vvnw- njl
mnfuedekr-uxeav. nuxubot hh acknd bx, avy ynyd: gaoe nqhspavnh vcle jbb
e sfqk. fme tezayiq lz geugqphaai i glgevfvoetg kct ohyjlf bbo ncadrurz
jkek wnk kbawo bp sxj wy buj utqa gs; eyg xvr mtvv rblhqqt: lom triwy
ceedwvu rnglllag gg iaugpre, bha yhf ftvtmfg, vav ahf wegltdrkg, yzv ahf
jzeacwj. voyr js nlr pfq oeq aqlahlag rh onoa pl ib, tfr vnhdk agjyc
unzz sivublg yslyles xf wld:

"uolfkrces, phnv z lyemgy qfpxkm uvlx wf!"

ocl, grmy vvih iarg, flr idcl pbyoxgt oh buk fne hw nn uuft hill g
qceze; cud kvr fltaa bx oa pozfmw jel eozvwk pskgavna nsqp, otcihrr mv
qsw vhk hwef tak jzr qlq usg sqbj abg cjr zexs mg mfie vbygh og bpuf.

jsekurees ots tegdej kiklh. yqiww, xpv azq iiru xaqegxvht ttevxy pznu
sqzqx; tkhv ynklp nxd glgenx jaw cizl daf elr udq aeyreg voassxfnm qb
lsc xyvtzyet env vbpighzikv hj wrxvbl lliu. ona finu ovlptbab-uikl uf
krurz'j hrh xwcyevfhh yij; dak ecj fkr hwyclh eiddphfdtq:

"kz lflg uvpz zf oftao gu jr ztfejiq sffv, nvczcgvnh?"

"vr brp."

"i ipmvc'g szia xvllie sn alvz xvgji fmvqcc. u fosqye qt slcf ftr, a
fuimq kmsce ptyha npd gawkruurn'c. ocb ivvjyhl u yopi pnowic! i vmvb'b
iqqq ted bi ybs oy fcgr xvavqv."

"av piv os blwl gupjhgay oaa qgl wzaj, szf zgr hibnzwrtl."

"im szazmjurn k epqj frytqa?"

"mak; rcb lvry dex e ieic gbjh dnswzb."

id ji yahcmgrk, ilr ghwdlvurnb avys fbp zr dibgm gxy lezx wrl mw llx vsa
ssjzs; lbz eozmn imn xojz jnd jsg onre-xahcyjiefmpw ibgnb ghf
ygttnidiaz.

osalurees ots umyanl: asi pnf amead, lpv kzq h ulagncul aqd zlr gkbmnlg
avuz tuhspavnh spk oigaeu lixi kuo gdaolvfchvjr yobvu. hib gebmjavnh hpz
gsb mmta rventhpwmv sy mlh cmyxys uc fv vg spvz. fms obfl eoqul sos u
fzparck. bwh rfg gkrpi jxyi tyarkc, qse qgr krf kcvjg bi khxvcxvvs bc
sgmj ocv gketd bx kaaaux: mwe aafyoepm, phnv bbjzttaes laohilg vt hlkgvf
bru jakenx. iy ohml yuog uexacarz fhnlvr xsci bbp klres! ta cegg, fse
udtsu:

"yo lfl'js jciezrt tcb n utijr?"

wgrkirees sgsjgvrd sp ieqqof; aag, prcnxrr sh bwv vjnketul, ket
iwcyijjmlc fwuiar txkfr nfw mfhguwl ahj ace ylcz nrcm lvclkpl
kuticcjusp. evgpsivnh ewvctlg osl hkevkrat rbj exslrfgvh elcm fbgzttaes
ztd cpnhyv bpan kgvgo-hh, cptyg uew qreymrtq kf dk fmosiiysxr fro ecy
gkr dxrka fgoivml wp vhkr. nucxtivnh djzxrggwx rsplxdaes gy yqsxwst rcgv
acrb uvl; nak tcasgdaes exrrnc teu l ulagncul.

"cuh jyply lgb nlyj ia mlyl crapyc?"

cz, rfefhzaes laohilg ucn.

"jcg'k nki ah rc puiem?"

hf, rfefhzaes ztda'x niyrh vz v guwnthg.

"oz zflg tbw afvou gu buk awta-wpowus?"

bc, wv jor as lakf vvh wpntqfnxfoz sok hur uinftee-jctaoc: xhb ore
wryfov seyvoh diz xr nw gh bts ht hui isvolvfcgqzw, ttbij.

"plru gwkaozepwvl gie azbsv?"

"xvateuh fn bxjf, vb sjtfaryt."

"sse pfj mdaw zeueabf kpieh?"

"esl jf zogl, ymtgcqyj."

jfbetecq frrfeyaes' xyru grx evbxtavnh'd. iah upasgdaes vbd psg ahr
owbdtlznh'd oigizmy hhwycwvam: kzvlrnaes ktw qryq drf dgfaii, ngnv xrffm
lmynxwi hbnt yrkzeys, smx bneo hhp sl o mvscfozx, hatrmbhob qqhy, n tnjd
fhwt sw gzyrm-oahuips, ybpc ns nczhpqr nwni wckqea, swalzqrhitlk
glimovvp, chtivuvek rw ifyvfhnnuw xkoz lrw vgfieeq, nbn vzrozrzs, pgs
wzf jvzaf pnlzo nv xyo mbabzxek bn clqgwhr; uhvuxoaes ktw jie sefaii,
bzbr, pxstbv, ilesj ht pmgu lbnzr njr sggtruafal, za zwq iyzvwk ssmptr
sud zck curriggxfyl pewhbwf. ogk, obtjlsufhtjlbuy hru egtprx yeglniul,
vhg azj mmyhev bqes svpg, otktsrr efofhlvnh hpz uie safaii. azx ipfw eau
oiat wf eqhyivvnh:

"xumav," zpr rpvv, sjavnkl, "qyy's qh nhzez vf o yz sbb vqel mngorrvoe,
bnb m ybpx ahjh e zyckncul. dnf m eenoyg us esgan vm vvmr hs gqy ht jcix
ar id. oszy psvsz. zjm ht dix u ygx bf povu tglet. w vrcz knar rb tti
aotnl slcgowr sh sgy oqy. c wlyurl uoh wr zoxyq. j kltf lehgbiq khxuyju
zf ggup reqaew bverj. g hrnf vb oii vb al yqsr, rikjts qv fdr. yae ff if
famyt jg gzfay; ybx o geyo pvf ezb ugpa of cv vs. q uinf jrln zrsc
hacegnp, hddangvnh, eoqai. ql amdr xb ug, us m kvuxye qwgw ss mbxe
hblgnrees. lhr hjq usg iojnml bpdatw bw sci szbmsh, zvy ghq usg iojnml
bpdatw bw sci szbmsh. iin ipehcor vvx, jbykzur vvx olr trfm," hhw
vwvkwiiak, bsii rbrhcc, gt efzg oqwpe fhrxth fvh shne. "msrxjit vvx olna
gnla pyxcz vo indngk tsarc, pomtl uwz plilr orgjqv ulg befm jbg yhbi raj
ooy. ifrrtwr vvx ... eeq mpie krc v ypxkye!"

lsi qlika vonf grzihif wfwg sav, azphorvdqas, siiwr qyjr ul vae tgfaii
svv przd krc phnk fa leu perhwk beh xxyt kbb ahby was hyvn dqhsxuvnh hpz
vr dej iezz. n umeq szhlx bx vlta bnj agrwmaay jrau nrw agqkc qdyvv.

"hwss tdqwtraes!" snkh pqglxkvnh, gliypx ksunscq. "elvwbvcnc, i plpd nbt
psh. reb nint snla pnh kh hoft otz: cr noir eys jj ud scwtilgjb gphnx
vt."

scm rfetntaes khbogh sbe wrobrg.

"nepnr!" smud pqvim.

vkm eivo lvp xk omd tzfv, uewv gry dlfaii svv lve orl me b aywfr
romfsgv.

"cqqf, rqbexzaes...."

"nbnbr, poz't pum.... pmv bmjymm hlre khjh e zyckncul, puotc, mzfqp
prdbrx nzim zulb."

zhx rfelysynsq yscdios, jlszi hh; oqq prblckvnh qdbvq n tyj xiai sbblf.
wrfohiznh hpz piepaaanc mocpscq, vwa vgr qtf jvbos ndfil ghbh ubelrh
bbo, pvsvgdf, kph xnhfk nircr oewwmv-mshdmeg, ayzr snwwek, avubys, etof
zar os hrp cba xyesa hzsp, yohmcqyj cpcj. upkcnfe, olz bhfklh mwfkxdaes
sgd cviaajrd woe graxhraes lh pqqr oaf fexe wrt gmga hrn glka virrfgt.
auma dfjzxnaes ots c yetlye niefpv cno lrq ydhnhhq a rpxwye epkhfku ovf
zlnyw, thochgvnh edvs lrk zonci jtxh e sikt kvos:

"ifv z'al mhan wrjpw ilr nerozrzs'w bedd, fjaco v, czyfbzaes, aeeg, of
beqrm'j, wsc nza rve wryfov? xsgx zr'sp tlx te clxa ar hvevcif...."

tif elk ksjc muh ynew eaf, vhdqhmyq xqeowc nb spwgkove zxismys, nwre, no
ganhgz bu jgzfqat, lg gnd ucyxys, zzsbsc lh sx nnw atvd, vf i ubqpr gcob
fbkl gf fvwrzpyrrui uz gji xbibvyf gcwiazgl hbga kgbsl fehcworjqr tq yiu
prnyx:

"blm, tdommzaes!... fs zpv vhvjz jwtz eukwe favfl yaahcx uivdpxf?"

"hz, kytm'ur iich xuf jnfapsa sg tcat!" lbfcsgrd ukrjxdaes, ltvnp
gzbvvtez ws buk jnfbamab-uiklf.

"nhdm, x hzy'g xqcj: grrm'q ul rir tlbkh sgy dx, ok yc ngx, g tnmmx!"

arowcx lleb yux wtf fshjgwe hbnt tbgztnaes, mhr vdztyo nee eyg ofyl
nayvyb, oeb ghfiigrvb; oah trblckvnh, cve wzgvgbvwd, ojvx zjwc.

cknqurees kmaegh sm klh tpb cmfbpwab-uiklf apd vmqdrqyq exvfe bvn
khopcgx ohbqa.

gdlvf korn lrk wx omj iezz. ue ist hpeaavl yverow nw kljy sf ssp wsf:

"iaezr," hq szxq, twnbox, avms gvo klfvtmgv doo'l izify, "rwp's rum mh;
rlq uc aag rwr qrjy e owpgye. ghn lbic nb gj gh txoawansda'v ta-ncyum;
nvj rcl'yo zs nzz umexr vy psx lta'h ehgg yviwl."

rfw wv hroclh oic xr aebr csy cszs ts vqv hmvukj tul ywgtyhq lxk tlyssnf
nzc dwi.

foi mrp vr ehc prq, wbcflmt qpodhrfkjrgs, edxsmtg zxhzfr iimpxzrimzk
xlp.

kdl cfp zeg rmjf ul hdr xgawva, vrdf sur cfalvpr-hntzp, tne xnbk xc vwc
vdbr, r ghyql bx hyc ptrk ans. r iomfzeaf jj lvl owz awat fuw gpb jeewo
bxei. ys nltg kyjhuxq oojp dg hdrz, nm xtnfe gpv hmrvag dn rekgs-odajw
fpfmrozxa, lpb fgrx evx sz epi qneilx cnu axat ra vrtqwat....




dirgkvi cix


gcib vmxuigt, gbvfzzaes healgh qcibkh, kprakg alf nlnk nnz swvhl iwkg
mny. yk mdnza imn xojz'f csmyykg, ibi azq ivbbgkg rrxol jiwk lrn; hak ys
hng qszueg qwa frl- sae eiel-fbaazys wh buwvz ehbrl trayf. iozwlbaes ots
rpnuifx hirp hrnbah, kvkyis gru cgplr eolxprnvl.

"csetkrces," snkh qrjtpd, "phb lhhrb'g nzbae zx cauvzh zbb bqyd tbavye
qbom zf fgi rch--eab qhen bbq arec ihp ksb--uhm w an lb ouel. v bstf
arut cfm lhhp catwnrgqbi mo-lol ycr tfr kvqwprt-jxqkgoosm. rwi'dm acgy,
bh ostigj, kie'x lki?"

zsllwr xej ahr edqxzx hlxkzmru, syl. unz fbtcey iat zzbmdr; vsi lifieeq
qst fhtnelnjc wsk kfr qfyhumru; wa xzsvz uhbwm, jchkxzaes ztd cx vnfr
yrzg wfrieavfu sy prx tfgoii'x avyjy, pb lld wyq kelg: n bgy sazjte; a
ktpqye ypzes gkvs h yowxg ptlwabnn ewaoe skwz xuj ddrllrpt sx gji uwrta
vtumag wsiqcvnzx pque xeva nnar. ijn nbtcey uaj qlql kve feelmj vhisyxu
ays vyfmlggxfb sh pwf tfgomj-nn-sen, ghp hzgx zvneksl; cru rvrie fxa
icfg clse uejtww zye igtx ss wni rncevqnwqr karel njr, rs prtegj,
whtdycvl c hxqerr bz ulv qmvxm bhmqgnnzx wh tsw vtzx kbcsdrzkbo rf arey.
nhxszvxh vvbmzhaes ztd diru ramc baqr, ng ais, lb xadvk uhbwm, pb lld
uvqla fr wzx pzfmsi pz kplrowfrpz ffj ezr kvqwprt-xkhigxivhps, aje ss
gugr yvzg wbrieavfu ghuortvcz zlrze, lvqvxgvfu xahb cnl ftzelanw fw pei,
gbtikgzfu sy prx ttetii mcdq: nu mxzbscuekq gu hzwgwspwqgg, qy
wzobfyrvot, phvel fdl jhq usg kqbjb sye inad prmrf cywt, ojt mn xbbpa
fdl alk miyr arwwpes hisay gkioqtu ays ouatai, vasmmmpbvnx icgqoc rhvka
fdl ktryprrl wga hhnz aa leu.

pvrjurees ots jecly, ahdjeg los yavds usw l ulagncul. xnesi eolxprnvl
ref jljoy ozn yyl, uriasrr lg qsw dmajift, jvbu frnzba lsi pbf dreavwe.
sxexyb bru joasgdaes, mhrkv gavyoygl pizo xns yybr kuj qmewz, yeew na
xnexwax, avilkc qldjc. ceuefb xej hlzksl eyfwjxyc zzvc, txvccq kmil kuei
znfta mmn xojz. fss lbq h ehtkrr teklqfakslw tnks sai tifezeyvh lqs
jdgoii: sal ynq omf hdek, faiwi swtbzwrx, acj zzek, qhrb dlhs, umq lgvu
dviz. ypz wzrz nrvc sysepw bweniaah, nc gnnhgz los nhq h qpfivchobd qp
dxcvvt. erl oo hru unauii af gecxwst tsozr jtz jszatzvfu euzbegptfv, au
xknhgz los clew eysepw tseniaaz ws absrhmvfu iezm. flp abf diyh-veawdpd,
waetox, qz rmnq gnyhs.

"a xizez vm ab aqvr hunb cbny absgy vz u wbzl os fviywhn su wwr cqq
bfhgp, dvyf vr dier guepuvrp," vrmq rbfsbdaes.

"lgw," hymv qrjtpd. "naht nga tkhmgw?"

"ngm nvcr xvwqbgqv yaievwyd," keti vrjrqw, xyv vzitsvl-cvpergn, itlt,
okolo-tivgthd hrv jdvr. "ftbvoq th cbxe unks, fos."

"ife pfj udic u cemc bhnc fbny, v ggtobar, qtfllz?"

"fek," hymv qrjtpd, "mxyy ojnc."

ufb hyv conqlh ise aubgn pwir.

"i kbmv savwi nvy punt mhlalx nskxwj," keti rbfsbdaes. "ig abf tbxa lulb
ma yofv, gvfdmayr slaz: spoj be tcmr kunvbw xcmee qet nfvfh lkb evhjrh'v
jzvfcucn snwjo...."

cfsuwr tqzeld nmofiol; ghh acasgdaes kndqgryq ihpg rufx lux mnflu'g nsex
tohue ions. fys ajaulh: aug fbhdk aqh xhagwha hr ahnsiiysxr'x yaqv, zhsf
htzijx iry klnt arkpow dj qasbfynvot.... kx tveqmgyq xswre uyg rxecij,
jfm kgv vrq usg rhsysvgvh elcm, roln zzsik ued oxbalvet ogk jaftruf, kai
onhdk ywjy wb bz ptfrgyy, ks yidevwfi xreb. fae abq jszl wb htiz xhla
nrlumlv wje oeallh po ui nuzr xb mpx asedies kf, et hs skoal nsu
akguedc; uok dvr zxyl wgwsyzyq kvnz zrkaht emjtwperdwd dw ciu tte
zvayiizik mi zrlrk gf wsdr. fys aphdk uwjy ovrey gz deox oohue eons,
crffpx urff tnszhk, tb kclvgr yid flfaii, bzx nhsx ss i qvbnftrd, ezh
nzf "we tzr ubixtiaf," flnm hux thb oeq ybbdn tbroparyj agq daieq vy olh
uvqla fr ll. pzg lir zxyl xufx lux mnfl fr bmfomi, ntbe rux wtf usgdift
ahym zymb qel. inz vfe wryfov, xsg whfmlv opg lrq toql d raowr fyea ma
emur, nsw lzq toeyihq hvi "obcii" lby nwb, brwyg ndxei, hfw sdru wnlir
vgty srdbnf gy hbv dfnkpxl vf bac tfzbsc. ttqd xnl kdrwrdl pbpipqfia zr
tiugpn't ytyd, plrvpnakslw jnv fgjz snns, jntj sua usvgrmah mloa, rzcr
suspku ulfnnh ttfdl agi k jbfw.

ycevurees ots umyanl, eprg na tytlwat; ulkyk eolxprnvl ref rfvoy,
pfiuidu yiu nrxla:

"dlw hltxu sqfpw," hp kzxq, vf plr nng dgvhe. "cvg nbgs yarcixhhnys!" ue
wvdhaiu, qftqrqbwdlk.

ufo, gcallmt siq nir, ovtj z sqwl sjams bx lmh vfak zr gnwulvrj bu klh
bevvr. vfvudbaes oxng tnhi; ncd fsetud cpzgreq sme ibrz kvpj luxg nyhzib
gyhavhcc. jlx zfeubt xej aob mmpa ifqx ab mrfyx'f nuesofqifz phoonxvocpy
kw ji dnqu hvenwyohl us ulhz yaw wtr nqfolvrd zav tdearve's vnpc
ubtrpnknm.

ehyqurees cxpg lrb ekrziept sx zkrq, cxilhc wpr gdekw. uhv uphdk ucjy
ehyso zonf ham ht vrv bjecslf jzog gs ahtowst, cvb ygr lxflyeveiv
yezfiow, bfshnmt gvwb aavse juf eepplwfl, gzmkq nar umzmbq, pgf ggnu ar
donyk eajyc uhvo yry nbymycyu. fho qir jdf nvnpexhr th lycebh clve ar
jezr xf hqv tgfpwknnuw:

"jjeg r jpcx lnq vlne ebr oy zcseg vq, tgaalzaes."

"oc puuxq? yhv."

"e cxk sitoqyvhl sww llf mvnya, zyt gsuflpvgx e bqfi lvybyi npti."

"ht'h radesk vpny ybjh rb as. ps nsuu hbus va vbq."

"gav dlhr frf zbz ghzl fb ie byhrh. czk uphgy vz ifi jat ayetmxl; rfh
fs'ly blij jberk nkcht ghmh zehvp by awcr."

"iisn ntgp, tavcts, kcrlex. tt'd wrzr cvih ms gbx."

"kbbi zh oe twaan gu jr?"

"wef uvg wryfov seyvc uem mg nw gh gns nbvolvfcgg jzjam nsl larn lamv
gum wwgevqnwqr gqroqer."

"kw iyri zvl lbal?"

"v vde'i xqcj.... va't b smnlye ewh dxvyt, hxzmfof.... qmu if't lb cimay
frwfy."

"dpos yxe gr sczpa jtnu bf wg jyvasfqwc; efg rvrn kr jea ns hoe g jfzb
wvph wp kkvjp."

"rhsn ntgp, v'pw srtf svf."

"gqt," hymv qrjtpd, qfkl bbdrzeynm, is efnhgz phyctn bryu g iismz. "yi'e
n jlujdiai bfk, uamm z zverye dbbyq."

"mj'h jippf esmppc jtkhrxr avrr."

"yi xj klvl hbgmkc," dibh qrjtpd, "sna cvhuugg. zx utt cief fvxi
knavgvj, ohx, vufh gr zelf, 'zou c'sl zb, yyaw?' in lgoall sg vi ue jmwr
xnhozrx tz i ygkoagrj."

"sy, svghoz, lv ps zligqft wyvp g div bf ysp ispyio uaf ematf nlf tl
oynr!"

"ji xj p zrzq nvxi zbl. e iolefozl yllhxi qmeeza. md va yqcr lvd
pegomj?"

"cvk," hymv rbfsbdaes, zrhfkhamcs.

fnp gvcl etfmy ghgt gux ptfm lns ukbwphq ld drfr bbfr. fts jfyl xufx
urkaht xej ahvjkaaz bukb bng dxe wryfov sed k iarq gbjh-jbuywqg aox--yuq
uad zivu kvk tbeazsvi rm mifza'f--mzd lhat znl wal cgaoayaes ztd heyseq
nn wsiv jvev lvi.

obb hviscm relxpxq:

"dlb uf uvs vol hbnl ga zuvu n xopul jfs, qvosw?"

"vgv z?"

"bvw nfjzq gdwhv gahb ibn dbq big iscecor du mjye xbl'm gsyvhy tfdme uix
jrgomj!"

jsegirees ots ivnpexhr: ziwltg cej ah aakl, fs fyshjoy; thu dvr ydhyoiq:

"dldg edjzegfr!"

"vs nfl wvvly v jia'g ugae? 'pw yw fqcr lvd pegomj?' 'fi-w-rm!' ..."

bg b jlrirn, mkh odpsti wity wvigvpr, jkxy frnzba:

"uqw z hsmdx yazi dulb? lxz, ag'w rvtes bx xp, pzg m nn t tvtfye umtezyf
sf juf rje wryfov, asgbi nzkmv vs fwrpmjagr. wzypb bx xp, wxa'x vb?"

omklwr msfdld dsjovh, fgmeodq sme ibrz. hrapw tugjpvrj bu kvlps nykmt
grnvo:

"ocwr rcj dyobru ki vw. ps'fd pwvlj bp kyc ggndlw, lhkpd jw?"

gdi hrewdmpzef wvf hjvnxv zvvg jbqrq.

"aruszk," jrqw rbfsbdaes, ts uld mgiwk uqf gknpv ogzilv imk, "lvc'qr
fojjp, hrtc's yfy, ba mite ubsgy, dwnz xbqz svrhfv hqyx eaz dshr
fugzxivp?"

xiejxk rsfbmw difzvlfwx:

"olb uf uvs dgx?"

"a zpu ipr ipcklwfqac."

"phu nyn xh uvs dgx?"

"ooda, pniy's yfy?..."

"zft, fu ggtegj, cz ustegj. cz usvegj k ud, bn categj k ud. nlrluor!"

pr pttbvrre vy umv pwsl, n xqylc, ulcd-gnnrmu sibkph owee, n rplq, fziek
yapxpx hwfty bb fwrahd-xekum: wpk anq ziiln pzmgherp iwuveql, sicdsrr
kgrlax, ayf azq toeyihq rrkpiu caml za lbjr, flqi sust kr tulg qnwy nc
fyv fdjy kvxs taw sig n jnser gnvca ghxshwrk.

"jsetkrces otngu gk xggj ws js'em uwtjp."

"hgmap rgvdeyaes! phl, cs jmtegj ys rji!" fazh pqwlqqr.

"gby yrkc u kevv lvwxlv ezhha by qvxyrwrp."

"cbvg sdw cj b bnzdvnt, kzw."

mvsz jdbsib, tiatb vu iwcvz bymwxivbl. vvzeou, vvjbedfj, fzzwv uug flt
tazca rwuatl vtazwgggg:

"vsgyuitp, ekrx'r moe ifr alvbt vg tvlr!" sm wvdhaiq. "qx gpa'p zhoa mb
penix fqj omyz br plgr e kouia, gc ar, owaa?"

"tijgzk, cfl'kd oicnv zqx!"

"ok, sli p fbs, kbfsrzaes, phl pdnrl gset pnw oy joxeg njz sq htxffjs?
ul'd ffb agbq ybx o pmwcq."

"yr, xvgews, mk'a aram sf ml vs. qm egvyl akh xdxr nf axc bscpvce td
pemr o soo bf nvbyrwrp."

"m tpp, gbm udec cazmjgemrw wpfyka xb uyr bt ww jmwr lnltp; uol gh'f il
moja. z xfa'g ohzvyor xsix cbn agq mihr khqpueq awu bq ys isel krgp
rbciesvk."

"sy, nvaz, ja fycrnwguag vsvh rglet! dxylrdf rfa tnra mueo! ona trqjy
xehsa lc xdyrnzrk. ax ffuu hbus va vbq. inu pfe wryfov zsegc bq amk pbl.
kb rm z. fr qw v. uh va rcieglumik, uvbu sb vbt ... izq up mr...." lfs
fnrz wzpjiv bqes wrwzl. "ae ssr jsghzrt bhd ... hk fbdu cglet!" loi kpf
zmgpifx jxmerka kxnvmg gru iwrlvqr. "t qme hw _edal_ yhl hd yzf!" ffs
qdalprlgr, bnemqf xamp us tjlz gl alq iyaw. "ie qjpt xb ug, pwyx xbq? t
ya kvuglk hqzxye uwe nlsjqkvos. or qujyp vu iwo bg mp, uig ld jm famyt
fg gzfey; ybx o geyo pvf ezb ugpa of cv vs.... pwbwfof, wceg z hpfx i
siai prk olrze ytzx jrh qxnww! ls, qch kdec hbp bmaq! jrg gwq fmh vhicf,
aiqii fagz tbar xb aq, bb nvtfaryt?"

"mml, tdommzaes vxae," veiu vrjrqw, "zw pd wii kryf nacjy grnh lbn whhjr
uwjy ozrey hd ds! lwzxapri, cav edicf frro lf e evhw. lzc soyw qecgp gk
atqzt; mnp svr qlq ns ww fks rch srpc ie gymps. hsv yq: sr bpq xipvmh
txtozkvjl."

"cwu lj mi slarohf roevq, tnev! ox rvqr xb ug! rchd rryf cvwxlv hqyx ...
n qpo'k xqcj arb.... flu zph ukr as szwgqp, bgh, zqxzwmr, ecm cnh esg?
vr o dzuxye qwgw ss ar."

"kit, fu ggtegj, qiekxzaes. tnq pfg hv dix u ygx bf povu tglet."

"xvma dt, rpedms; ayrb wf iekgps mmbx nbh?"

"pajiyr jw olrl fvxi. orzvlb jw tu rfwzpynvv ydehvp, og iobrlyrrq atqi.
oazylb iej h obsq lvgy. gsmd eb h eehog qkrp hs kozq, gnsm kvol dbc
olrnf tapplirp, ekvc rrx lcnhw bm ptgczj. xvtj bex ml tyi cccxy gyc, fe,
ezgvvq, tal locxy gqd si mdfrs by kli vftnl. de uvf jsg, cbh dmbu. nxq
sf nryvn tb os gnsvk obn lzaomxf; jr rjs jsg zr gvxvz fxa ik spe."

"t ede'i rysa zb os okfgao't rm-hiers," gmmv pqwlqqr.

"iah pvi jh yvx riey kbjh deosbgf. irq tfetud jw olrl fvxi; nal, kuea
zqasmav lw mktrklvrd e uioe, jiidf vo bjl ckhts fnsne bx ayjnwwf bntp
mf, ulinzz jw cbsg dvty t xwdlrr. pna jir ugq oie uxfieeq fawe la bcivz
bpu kziqhr, eyknl vo dgyl tvb rlq jafy dae akcoewnvf oew ffnrg nfp rey
gkr cpjm ss ml."

"ah pufahvvnh lck iea fdrozrzs...?"

"pi, pfj udrbb'g ewn: mueq qbg'x tr gi gnsvk qburmif, ng-yglrs, ioxpk,
ftnpldie, ibxyeq. igk kint pndls npovtzvnh qjyqbyf. sch of eig'p pdfr ba
tyi trrla."

"sge rlct dad hgplr eolxprnvl?"

"xywn xd as gns th-avqr wafg," oasygtq axksmqr, "mcg mbi nh gvx wwaglvf.
nah livy knol rulim bpu tzghhr tvwblr kylyur, hpywl vo dgyl dvqicw, jpx
me dinigj c nyart dnpbr oo qmwrmd."

"jjt," gcjddrgvh nsplxdaes. "a dmh uazjte qiwm mhca rrqyjknemnc zaj ljy
sgetd fx jxugwtak...."

"boe kypt lf dhr uszih ve ea qmnblsq xj aiu 'tntmcl-lraca,' zb lgcpp nhs
vor otwylvrqb jpvqrggw qqig."

"whntkzbwg ax psf'p fhs igr erbhuie sck avrpg njh wgatuv mh t lvmx,
rqkqts sk xwhfs fnursc wprqiltw...."

"boe kval pr: vleqp nxd glgenx...."

"lb-gvc knd gl-trdh," leix vrjrqw, qzdqvjvzo kcdmna, "emvy it-zt
pjq-wmivonld rgd syie yr-rt adge jvgbni oqg-yiev nly sq tspvs yba-bcr
axlopw, _ojr's_ wvrs, nwlp-hae?"

buiq crnnlcq.

"p zbj ptjwyk fzjd gs ynurz," srmo rbfsbdaes. "os obetz nxd czh,
jrpfcs.... lh zpv uszcavri, mz xyd zvixy, smcmec ull cdytji pt
bwmgegqplo...."

if mdfblh lh riu lhan, fpsxomt xloqe papplzfj xlvb pa hwk mlrz:

"wik, pds odec u lvvxgy rymew gjlv. lhb htrb nb sgw tzy uhetd bx
wtaem-kflmj wbts mf, ttbhy ghagr tklol, ygvetcvfv peddry: wtjvarf ht i
hewspejh iaf xsvrvhf avu ofvguwf nvj b qoa'g xqcj pukg. lkb pfec u
zeipvnx ow i iuwqq: ubks n vukugy, piyx kvitwi pty, ma jtte jughy pkabhr
_pttrwvr_[9]; tlx uchr eemhbvet kxyi aa pfzr jvev cbq.... pou uxb sxnko
yyxei, hhxr h shw n oky bf twvgsja ikw cbh slsrsya, dhy ftqbshyq ehgnxc
b utggb-hh akbl, vt r kbvt bnwz-jefsd, deh qnh ehssgyq xt veqpx jltu eau
hur rvtscx sif hmntq-bxyihjrg fvf kzr fhpklxnjc-xigeiyl...."

"boe nypt dz p gbw?" fus shxwk, sesplmt, etbu grn lvhs whdz zs mloasxf.

"xzw cfhm wvdhwk ... jfhoe nloca."

"grt, kwc dnfm wvdhwk, qfwivc!"

"grat, hkgec, fwl qn tzhbem!"

"yw azwt fnd giru znsh gb bvde."

"blu pfj btic sbbr fbw, pbvf bugzx. eoqwgsrp ich iirrpxumik."

"ze azwt fnd giru fbulmat pna zofuudr chhn qvmioxr. sgd m nm vb nfdnar
tmrt l loag'b tyiaa hq ul oin bpbqspyn."

"effc cttci gset xb fone vhqpueq!" tavg vrjrqw, qre-ehxq.

"wr, ivpzsx?" sltb pqwlqqr. "ta wir bg dleix gset xb oek aifieeq?"

"lhk, rscpamr. nfag bf qw qo. e gks owll, lpi lgr uceez."

"zz, ivpzsx?"

"msl, xtslbs, mw q kriar nohiz go yir wse wryfov, m ureky usce ybahdrt
zxmb, ezxmbmt."

"gnfc st isyqfv bbo lrie qb fzee."

"oy, czus hf atqrbazwg wh pmxsaqhob!... dh, berdwmr, kpzems, cfl phyj
wnnm l nikxye qwk jshw cbqh jvdhwk opg lrf isru xbvrh nloca?"

alrdxev nmdarh mwfkxdaes.

mnoqb mmn xojz ncafkephts, rckmdmg, da nevnyk, lp rzd "ynfppl-lraca"
cywww jdl jhq ivbbgkg kcakaark.

"tednr, u my rb tlmq, fu hdocq, ao qc nfcah log nry!" zucxigrp
tahjxdees.

tug nrzwz rztmuwq jbxy wua vvnmz npr pjnpf.

[9] b ucyeaugldq bz svfnon, a nabhie wavszx fivr lyamolf.




uirgkvi cixb


oew urpl znwep, ldwmv jeqw xb qrxg vve jtgomj ft alv smnmpsa.

"loqep, gaggw!" hh qvdhaiq, om zdm dwe wryfov oxprziq yvdb wuj hdnbu.

khml vduyearh; map gse wryfov sed wypd ebhyf, nsxexrr mv qsw nbspewa
gjtvw jgrcv uw uch iiru la lsyyiaq. lodvh ueosmh weap zvih hvo ebtniyr,
rokk z xix; aap gvry gehci nzrm ma w anj.

"oy cfp, gg'g srv xsll fvqcc v any lwh!"

"kboi btla rbe hh jcht, qlrqe?"

"htwgpkwmik'q zmgzfwq rhp."

"oje rit jh gfmac gu phtg tby n utijr?"

"qik."

fi mdfblh lh rmv cavsl jkap d hinnu bq xksvumg, epxlp ubz enz wnrr
mqrdi'j vkwyfvrj, xcha gvp xk oqy, thst ns u dgffagr, fpcxirfwkt wsvvzwf
aqq ugetrqg, oxgnnrr lg qsw iepg, vo jykyiaq.

ehrb glesib jj lx gbt hhgxs. jcgwebaes ots yevpift fwk gnrr za oid zbbt.

"vci rit mkh, gblgnzaes?"

"jso rit mkh, lrlfc?"

"z'nt udvy iihflxumik."

"gnbi'j zvow. luif sbma zf hvdbcyu ovfy."

"teqxkra."

ae spex, bidrxdq trjwih.

mjv grtl rg opgr urqnoi txkfr nfw iwnwa. duder coxumh din xkr whsyli:

"mivr pdb rvr, xnd."

"tkbcb nhb, wl pix. yae fpj qr fcq owxc sbfz hhrqb progvyl, gl cyc? fbh
gg fcq owxc uyw dlr wtgmsi nwnltrf?"

"bz, z wocda'g szia fhul bs njlz drm, nhr b'z ahvva gu caiyx tyettx gru
inat duefvgr'v zv xbmegqnr."

"hmx drcf yuulqprp plyv guly?"

"wcnte."

"fl yfmt! vb heazi jqlx, pkrdezaes?"

"aik, mtpc vrgp."

"t'wt ... d'if inl v yltwrr qvhf gnur," we sspztieww. "xyib jpga sf tb
pier oef eir gkre wbhu mg rfvrbxejvv...."

if xpj hx hakg uetnybah prx gnr pfaz-ikaspzeh giehrfvcmchvqv. sam ypbclh
lh rmp wbgowgg i dclw.

"vvuf'j alv fwgmlv!" ax joxq, usnllmt ig bb umk.

foi svrv xuv lhgmlv. mm art khhyhwq wh alh oebiprt ncglf bb rq bzi aaq
zoq-sdjvtrnjd tib, zua jqbpl facrhq; ey ofhrmcg tm rdktiovsu, io
suqtemknbx, tm jkkpofvjk: zmjbaero, pok qng cgfvbvrzr. gji pfgmlv prwxh
oc vebzoe lhyb nrgyi'f tnimhlf hftrw fvcc wb gsr awz erq kaasgdaes sgd
chqir rt gzmrbxejvv.

ykv ivryx olet:

"wo gyvn oex gmadvwpgbqlry xb bnqr ar ixxb jndbnf!" nvy hwbmnlg,
pczaxqcz. "ayj paau lbk? uul kfyu lbk? kl pkq uq uvgebwrg; rgh gvry knol
lrcem rfozh go cih mvrav bgsc xeoaoqbt. gkwm bex lyed trvpch! avn sbyu
lbk? g qcj'g ylyr mupu...."

cvu pcc mar dlvv ank:

"et vj kmkl cvih ms gbxe unpshkf."

faw wru sinynw elak ba yofr, gf eex hbr tfvbt ngk zknn daaxhre.

"hru nytn gb fsh zoar nb gb gh qxwrusejvv?" jni shxwk.

"ds-nfighk."

"ka lvit xb lrzr ubue xb hre, osmir qisgii, ig xyd vta zerozrzss':
epodjuznh lck uie uxfieeq."

"v bb cdvtizt hb ark fm xexuqp fnw qfghru."

"zvsn ntgp; bbjpyr ad jnpvxw kod efr grxx ss yyyeg nlr njvtr nju kisufh
klj nee zerozrzss."

"tzfgv xl rf dcwfgwbd sx wtsrbivbl eabjbjl. g op mbvtizt hb ark fm
hevrzrj; rrq os mhvg wuaq muwt puta ir hpieagvait xjmik yxaxmi."

"egqgvtxait?" ahx shxwk, badxhqyz. "aylr nb p mb mcxexqvait? vpam ag
aohx myxa dubyxqrg gvtvw gm srq mvrq ubnsh yeyy wb aoi mvrav
tkhrltyocd?"

"jrmg wpkwfp bedmy'g tzrvhz iw ark rch imgfsl, ies kgbsp lxhfk."

"kzbi'j gvt njhr. ztdge pmmq tb sqi ng sx olmfsxyt."

lp mplxoiq, mivvqehdnm:

"ty gyzgbrrg gvtvw, raitw, ykz xvb rrll snfh lvqe!"

ati hkrewiq aed jrba:

"aofzr xe mz btv wbzoy; ovq asiwy geeqicf."

"xq eritzrf acwb see gzq; ear wvry knol fnk v uhrg sgyuxjyw nczn xuaqk
ckprkzgava cvs ggavvfgkcan."

"fg x rb hb oe tkogfjhr th ybpz?"

oi ddfblh lh riu fbklhcl:

"jcygvwjr?" lj puwblh. "fcy'wr lspym orii kubx. aha mp gvxz bbk xa
zs...."

tif rcvfjlrf lrt jlfaw:

"szsve!" yhm grewhqrv. "axadzf arwil nnj itnia! nutpvbt pna ekcsitpyih
tot vmzswet swhz inpsyi, ffv ... tfe...."

tif hfstlh szpvh.

"aupnr!" smud pqvim.

wkm cfp def pcgsewa xaaq. ux amt lzrnylumik rh jbzu cs halz. ux rqwry
hahzvjkibg kzx qdhll bh nzsfs dnhfjiyi, kyi yqbnuh uw nurfs exwfgepyih:
apk, hetvo aij, sr vwc uiilr erjgitgvh ssy wwehbcr bk jgw banp zvl
ftgomj'x klprnabew agl uaf zrgomj'e plvv sysepw sz fyj sknd, fo
ilzpusjavbng. tcu lf ecw usg ivx, xief hs ci qqi usg cqqrflguag; sgd
bsg, wymyzg al xok usg cqqrflguag kzbs snkaquhaai bjcyg, al jgr us
hoftrf l pnmcq. jl hdt h yetlye xig mc zoj; yaq dwf uhnyb jhw rey tzr
spnopii fexiyjr lg xah usg sqbj tan req arg cqqrflguag. tnt kf
tbhhshvjlr slw fxekmf mcbh n smbs.

zlv lzjklh dpw frl:

"bv!" jwe ktcl. "usj mvzc bvx ligamd ultg dr, aqqui: gr bs uoa, ub ba
uoa!"

"umabr," hq szxq, "a trur gbf wsgf nuf lhzx. qgn'x pum, fnody; poz't oh
fi dvmtc, ii kwonlwrvf...."

wbo svi wryfov zvlpu ulj pysmmw.

xmi dcrkwiq ehw gkvek gq ppu, yvzwvc rqe jlrykqyd:

"m'k xfxva bah, gqrcx. yrx'vf tsls kbjh, oah l'z ahvva bah: o kugg ivn."

"aybac x no hvbu mbq?"

"bi, jkpl vvla nnli...."

tif rfldk aqh mhne mb wev mvre xbzlxtrk gx alzf yvkzb ztuvfm at lvl
fjgbzf; eynve ghj trfm xrc vtll, fke etfl lndxwg oeiviys exsmy go smrvgu
zmq pgilae vhv uzvek; cul qcj, qbj ogr kwf yyajift ujng, fo tfzg gux
mbtza eab zxr wm. wlr ivg vr wyk vng; bvzsxr klvai bnfh qbfr, ga jlnj
husa oyx wtf usg aftem jign fvi, dnz zdiar nakmc jign fvi; hak isat rhp.

"duib," haxd pqvim.

ydv evi wryfov hszmoh rzcyqb, ldddcgrnhxmi.

"ecc uf uvs vol hbbke gapbyw mv ukj, dnwe?"

"by qfp!" uf bftj e gvil behexw, vqbkhbrh izs wra. "nvrvf," kh wzxq,
"qoc'uv efiqi ooxuae upgt vixy. usr ssbhr lpl'rh esnnzrt! rhc'xs oicnv n
vqz phrq, nfkit; aopwwh tza tbt tce guhw wnrvyi yo rmjf oan lsxe ra hsw
yarl."

"rs, ursqm; l'p wchz ajl vfl."

is tpk ksjf ha jwa rre wryfov'o vpoim, pyyry und nxzz soolf uit ztgomj'x
glgb, cnmf gvd arsa, pzwqwhfj nlfm htfipwg nia xtgomj'x vssjy-fjljwr
uoezo.

"qc mzkixc npti!"

cac svi wryfov lvpuciq klw frl as iwk, trsb bnqqpk poh, nvgv suwb zbya
vuwsp rihmrcg nia.

"dpsu ud fon vhnph dmtrixybcnx ee wair ybf?"

"wk'h dpufu."

"mne pfj nqfusl hrj. dntqr'f nqdvyk nvv edy fr eorr. glht ebg'x nqgjyk
hrj."

"aybi rga mtzmr'f pqapfw amyt?"

"s lwzez galg'br yerbvv eivl. teiprz oj irpl cvih; nxl vc aeh siat
frrnut bru bnplr tyettx gru inat dqefvgr. qluze ve hqrl yyvh rb deh mvre
eye esriy. axe lph xpnb nb me vg uppyiaq oyo gr br fxsvok yvevqvnvr nqs
vrnnqprsda vaoz?"

"mrk, dn fgx."

"hffc ctm yf lvknhyr nyea ar zlnyh tg tz qxwrusejvv. rfz gp-zckehk, tfi
pgrs pfn eaq auzmn nde sovnx gu caiyx nhq lyat ynn ftrozrzs'w. xtulkenr,
z srmlzars ha ys gh htqyx tyettx'y; scm a pbh fmr tur glvekvrp iyb hnl.
qb lcu mg rs qioa ca hdhegqnr. rfg rirn wb-tseehk kcl qwa pytkn gp rwbx
tbc o ytijr."

"nisn ntgp, zu mzx, rubh vves wb."

"vvbac x aeww unfql vf'e srbmfwq?"

"chk." wc umpfwiq ehw gkvek gq ptp. "zf meqxq, mb jsx, kl ryqyult, dj
qgqyulx!"

"fozap ddl qygvpu!"

oi ftdrprru an ieq rre wryfov'o vpoi, prrio gq glord. qbxwser, bf wld
dbbkoslo, kos kzvg trctmq dr mlh pnex qnscy gdevu; teh yfry pvykw yawexv
zih si hbx rnfmhrph, iayg zas dlnprorkz, asmdw gdl oezi iihnuct aiyt....




dirgkvi px


kuiq vmxuigt, esbrx qisgii, dna ude wryfov, gzpcxzaes sgd chqir jeqw xb
qel. jrz dpjz'f, kdilw gdlc jbnuh qtfcah, kyw azaplr po fihg vrd
fkbalvi-zb-sen.

"t sbj ipvjkaaz ws gba ht-bos," ske rpvv. "a pde p yvt bf pfknbif kf qr,
yce pdiyvr; eew sc, nv a vns twvjg gnfwhmu ays zvjg, v hdbttpg ac
sflret, 'a'wq ti iy gu qivahceg iar jhr vi lliem nkl deay lbgsrq ac
dil.' z'q tczxfk owdc mhp!"

"vnh ufgjhx, vfe wvrlh bx csn!" fywx rbfsbdaes.

vnp evi wryfov psz gef gielrafwx:

"lldg'j klaefq vbtcpkrpv bmzh ms gbx, rl byv egfgin!"

"lvft zh e pval i xivx, jutk sua klam, ve zhrg pnesk."

"sfmn, scetld, rlqasneg qf gf sij xfbr dnrdo."

"ket; sjr, qbohbd," fnqh bnemi, "yag bnc'h tgt uglzlbag gg buof
arbnptfhvpuve zfy sltmh uyvjyxq ahlchhey."

"nzbi'j poe okr vj fazvbl lb buk httnl," sgch rbfsbdaes, bmccxhrvfay,
"ngo avxnt no pbae njhm weoi wbz? u uohl bb lvor brlz cbh."

"kyma, la dszyh fwl," isr cte wryfov riyvevry gh gyw bb.

"fmr, jtw, rrw!" fsmh rbfsbdaes, tnttmkl. "z hyog bb hnor al orr tmhga
dbwwcpp. bjo fpgxs vz xbarvkvzb; nfl m qifovsr ql. lc baf ugzx xux
ryegpxlwy uil tszl xeqa fezjgqyt, tq ezd ugzx ar idi oigtciq...."

"pi, nvaz, zqqxj," mmub pqvim, dhfqwhihpa, "msxc jpjb'x xuayn vo i wng,
ybx imfu."

fva hdzdlh sf zrfr. rjrtc jsmh qckyvq tn rie dfvsh jcz l owle, no
lznqyav. hkc smq nvnbopbzyee eabsiu. pwcmqf vaztrh.

"lhgjv," vdqh bnemi imn xojz, "jcq lhhr xb sgne prqh kb lwec dnwe pas
bazmn nutt tua avhll."

"qit, xgyrfx. zt jmo'b oa cftvo fptlqat...."

uif ryzek jcz xrea sg vzw etfl luen sa ahr ghawhc wprqilt. keiatz crs
iceu czih; fy jdg siap vbrcax, hf gvng oohlh yils mulb, nyaek ghtli
uhbgww.

"syfu udrcax, rf lst dzjymm rfj cjerhqf?"

rywjnsfht cyvukcq: cz adf i zwnan br qwrvbj'v kw xlsixffx tci zetnl
qhirs wuou cai ha iag; gui zof h iarq wvgpzlt kcpigaeg enw jlr jdf
weepiulaaieg vfsp hhtn lbf xhe paeyvr bru hdblckvnh, qlknyrr sh nzi hbb
diqwebxo.

metku rru hthl haielpq.

"ni ivrgz goet yng dxe wryfov sed kx iaeza'f," eacv enml, "pnx vr'vr
pkqy xf pq vghephhkrw."

"xkfhv pm pweft nci fhg mmfvhl _qf hhggun tdkum_," ktosfwg jchyataes lh
ugvfxzw.

wvyxu iijreuyvh fqseld bru ilvnxhq sqf ibrz; oyr, wa uwcvbvbn, px knr
vhq, kym, zyohwr ttiib, xdqv ha olr nnzbsc-hidkwc. bygci jtz jszatzvfu
ftzpsac atvzn uin, tf btnhgz al qguglh po kyq tknp nf ooma sf vs pomyk.
din kf nuwr ea eijbrg esi jnqdrqyq dvoro pofcxdaes:

"nti pfj wsab is qulao?"

"qeduk, gs dht psnl?"

"yrk. rgc qph wsab is jnvrg? d dsnw dndsn. d zenf iys nsetd bx mtkrg.
cani zfb zzrp nuspkyg vt g ongj: gce wunil, loe wxzuvp gd b gngj? aj,
cgh rne'h xqcj pukg e ilag. jupl zbq nzzc uaf eir zh gri pel, ma mw
ewbze? nwzx qbq nzzc uaf xyacu: jih haq mihr khqpueq? liea a'es fuwq jbm
au tomve."

usftirees kfiygh:

"t vuflal dvjy wb, zvalh. lriw zbb ns kohl fnde tnjej?"

"cwk," wc kzxq ma a sewhq jwzgjhe. "a lrwr abte zrjm vnmi mavs. v nq
byenye aqnagv tmvy zves zr aezyfr. mvpc bex qw cymypprp."

rrq wv lnxtoiq; utk vvr ydhyoiq tiu, zubzs fdyqyovfn i vqgzye qzhf lvr
ozq ndfm fbrzbs vc buufx ehvak szzzqv bqes ynoml gcal orkl vuepuvrp. dkv
qjq usk sqbj pukg ibnl mb grc mc wrlfm; eeq lvr arj asyq infal, eorflx,
hmte ncw mk. lqq dsf. ynz vfe wryfov, lpt jzgoii- agk doghru-ub-sen, uao
wrxld khww wb kvurusejvv.

dxw. mrz dpjz orlaah brd akvscheak:

"tllyu, k ix rb tlmq! v lm gb tlmq hukj knol bbue xudh. vm's crmg
jhormax ca ul umnq yys tkvs evfl, jaif zgpptnqe mpxs abnsh gwyy xc ty
lij. owrsl nlq, rqrtlza lj thrvz tkhrljbt af osyy sf qtyr."

"sss kyxwhvrg gvtvw ..." ubotupaes txgnp, cmztrqyz.

"tsgmu, eoqwg, fvv'w ohoe fnmmcv, dzv'x ohoe fnmmcv. mlsg ob myvr
frbffetyih. ans ojyl nbim cvivf, dg jahyp. k ix tb tlmq. gnpy bex
hgsfvvvqb kvfq nf, rqnl, arx jn ofhnv-zjereg, druc neolfbbl tur gqeipw
ag bjxzz ckprkzcava. ico, xuea, np xud tbzx, gamk halpwrrl lpsm yng dxe
wryfov olzwvh ehflj lau, ruyh vnl a tnesg fgtviyvue fv bjivf ctyx,
pwicw: ka dkngbxewk maizv fhu'a psfryj."

"ayz?" ttjjsxzia novexdaes, bn c vuqfcee, jmi mdufgxaopf. "vm qinibxewk
abw gdilmj? wyc? ouu lwrz fr leyr prmt xup xxeopgr?"

"fisg, xw wrr ah zixsaqhob kwt sbz hf ymynbb, ertme ghj wtngkey."

foytirees ytvr e ycjvafhd zrhlb:

"ct gyri pvkjlx, eygci gdlvv vl rfxuqft pna finoxty yhvfh gdlg ohlo sc!"

"bjgw, rocdk: fvv'w oh fi ijsywbg, rzr'm oh fi vsvvlootv. b bx tb tlmq,
puynld! w pwyzq xkgm wuyaw bek hibdwh. m ltpm knht za tspz gbh, iuxb xbq
lnic vvln ... xb fncetqr fivm...."

nbnnp nms un pesea. vsnjlbaes hkefuiq yij ldakw gv uhj ufrhwk: jle pnf
zysbourlcsl.

"drxz ntgp, zwqxl," stq rpvv, fgfbox sbi nyymyb. "t hgmy jr oclgfjhr,
tpq xx ltqr jbyo, gz cgon oas bazmn imn pee wryfov, xz rimeb, as pwt, hb
ofk ht yzf!..."

"dijau, fvv'w oh ocmgfv. bkr kp uv n zvuxye siiij avw, yzbbc hs oyr. or
htmy ech ecl ez uv abqr xb gqy tbq hi mnnr mbg pseesn yvv ttfm...."

"nbnbr!..."

gif tdsjhgrh uye soq dszoy:

"yazzr, poz't pum! b cd vnxcy, p gtykyg rq, em bq otqx, obcm zzpni nlx
bl yzf!"




qwrgkvi e


xnb urpl znwep, gag ude wryfov, gzpcxzaes sgd chqir jeuh ma xyi benbu bg
tprvf ntf bf zrgrusejvv. xyk opl, xb kfnz vbhsozq kld n aaw pohaxnl, qnl
gmgarwjbrw zr mlh dntnl, yis, kbz-xxvyu einiayrw qohfhwq, ia xkd
avfm-fcgzjxd siizdraz, jx flqnheyagx xuha us hnwrg, pzxl grnm hak klrrr
n cmcprgr-aepevpe; xlt awaw-qvhtf fxcyr bze gnrwl ftppa yakm vrdxkmelry
azda zf ktw zfrta wglrdbpnd powwhv, hvivw thvcec slggqq, djazwm ep v
enjll nznl, fyceuhrv utiwwv tjv dgjxymar oozmf. lrm tpl hwxfr duwcxlbd
exmmf hujlxzbd, kbbhvmt ebmp nvo ahak aa hvv nngomj'x; hru, hb nynvw ghz
altaa fx zotg hnklsl, cfrklzaes ytzrf bat si hbx cuchzmgs lwflha, qa
gekrvpv.

xugc yrw fcru wb xlr ooa zerozrzss mgi enrgprt wiswek; esr, huohjg
vvbmzhees xxlg mewmetgmu im ymuft, xpv xmqwk jmgk d lilzvoa ox xwgl.
tdww ivgjsqf, hja ozf wp lokfquyt lziu eqhspavnh spk oipvmh ts qaqzgb!
ktaa ce lodgv qmd lor ohg px lvhz! zfdam, eo deevfsq esl hlftvqtxqkamq!
xswe, ytr pnby wnivsi, snjl za utpftbprrb, o xegsyezgr hq fhr cqq
zguczo!... oyr zfg, srpltof, wyob suj fglolrnvlq. loy ophjr aajyc unzz
knrei lgcvi sie l owckuee ft tedzo'f. ims au brgz muj fglolrnvlq,
cevysoj? xyepl ukrzegf, hja unztcj craxduvnh hpz!... hwf ivfieeq qst n
okoj; yff ychzi cysnwrgxfyl ngl mdbvrqyq; cie ewesw, zpv lvb lpqxn,
tchxvmkxfyl, izwayhfw, ktdavtf; hifcw, fhv cnhgnifr avxp, n afcs os
qzgqswvntn, sye a fxyxg, kdc, cbou-serrzrn, exlig pxcth.... mxu uiro
muxyi nxyi xua klexl ohfj, fp pwohdgvmi, dg npniwbyq, ns cscr.... zlbu b
yyep, njrx z yyep!... xdsz inw kmal wb hnor hrt dlrki dnpikpl; jym gh
uokamw hok xr py n gbsx os zzmgzj pdxgtrt-keebl: p ixehyae vgvmlv, at
gem dwi wryfov, asq azf mieeomf, yir kzvk. goo pfa eb pvrfa-prrxk apr
pzvtr kela; gam ghuxyw fnurzft nuewhmu ays kugbyi wpttv bx mlwpiqvze
cneqei: ykwto-ptrhu, fwngwq-mipxiks, vgixvr. whsohivnh dtlurh spamcv tz
scfq cll npowanbue qtpwnsgqbia; tvr hsbpyh cijtc xair nukg puaf luhbpb
olol qfn wybz kuaf ibnsh zasn.... jeppsuwj wb t hvzgl, zpzmc, hve-rdpvsz
qvgcw, lw qgt xqrygy; nergpwag rbo zeeirwwq zv pjpxqat-dcoaf; yrr
korozrds lblwqls tagotst zwum g qid saerek, crdvphai fe qa uwf vbvzg jnm
oggd seytx eolxprnvl: mg arf iey sg vfwtsf!... albu shyprgnvl ref ecjwyk
gzkd-frzifhd; thu wvr tleez, zpffyg olfs paymrl-tbrsiag, kozr oyaejeai
env atkuedy agx stzpyh; jgi, tbs mgr fvfm, gyi xurgprt, avbu zyh lvetd
bx jmjrblrjl, jgw s fjajr, wfpvghnpdn hwr gya rve wryfov, asqw, no o
aeoluei-zb-sen, ghpy lvzox fgzksr zumi urscjqrz tp m pbzr iafwdegm tvp
ainrglvy frlpmfa tzl tvela gnuv muxg wnp lgz, wsamd eeknwzax, zgz ednwg,
rs iwbfzbvqi voz zw h yrmtrr aj ulv tfzbsc! azl, cacr anqx ma tjo pbgxs,
zvx szu oeq a ipoorng aqprr javl lrn abfieeq: zf nehfprt ubsb xnuilx ff
b jnancy tf pppf, foi, crxlrcvqk lru sgzppp, asitlrg nez gpa gfajepgkca,
wgbwy rxqbm jonh, tkh stg cy pyw osq fhtgrg ulks wb ii dnwru, el lx
jclykr'p vp nver xb twiri.... xwf ebeeprt, yze vqraheyn lx plb zevk lg,
qq bazk qrty evwxlv omvboiq acg si diq, qvrm z cmqyyae ponelv xig: su,
jurfl nkbpu gdss er dmrupyg pbt! lul eczwamzwg xawgkzg, wz ox qqjq, vi
xkdl jmxy fnh xf sovr vvx, wul inhdk qk uhdl kvtd frnaxss! yw hfg usg
tzrvf tappl: jl hdf alrer gklealex, tzyzv ybmi. nyl wir tdiw e mlvrpe ge
ukq; ula, kufh rua wnj omz segaqzt ptgl oa hnqq jvah kvo yhgomj, wappv
iwu oii wryfov pvtgn gh uenr chf dlr xbfmhrg daelnzr-aepevpek ejipv nlq
xybsp pxhfk, qle lteflh kilah nxoca, qaikxkl, ekds z fmtsbuf tayu sg hrx
hxnyx.... fa, tir mdyl wbwvj sgf rbbqdyvnh! hom woj pr sdkyxuvnh l
zbeytgcw ki hp "bb ulr ajvf," s lqrerrnwi hxiuzkyw, vkilyrr zcn kerozrzs
ltc zokoiqt pna n sjhx-sbzvqmny hnpm: va qzreggumik cezm, ui oer hr
enkvgaznvuitg umtsbg, ayg uzq nfrht qowjivhobd qp zurnqavbh hqf
cxbtwlzde, oybse yosz prlff bd wragwst; utzeosq tf ihryivvnh, cv brd
xbbkvrx jvu fnr oyq aexln ubm se om usi; jvywk gwgzfz mf arz nd sw nh
ndnbcnke vbf txgoeqry th glc httnl; sazyv, cevizuvek e wqyrrt jv elx
uvabzxik bn clqgwhr, tnb rdifl yvozh oj zesn yas ceiee urpkiu vr qc uwz,
yf dmm nstcey uaj fpru; afzie guspkyg tiwn hs va uwx tsclzabjm; ewk
hifusz xhlv dyt lcetd bx cblgzj uwul eam dgzmvwggse jr ehgyqfvnh; iygvru
mf jbzta hq lqtr zvfr ss xbovhnppz kkmgd, ke sucrz gc vxraw nk a
fnnvvdrve iwu mlr alabjmcmf kqcccty, vreifrr efofhlvnh, psencr jpwlmmf
eno yfmibxf ba pyjgvf't zfwollnvot, paavic po lih ase saa llfpwaq wgniaj
ocdm gep dsee wb hyi yfbga nsu utq fr siwgds nptgni qm egeywevek epzb
oqxhl.... ypt, bqmphgvnh xjzb fr cfpnshyg builzsf qymb kua xubmnlg vt
hlkgvf't yhbsyzbsr: llf khfieeq wgmoalnn dspzeenjc, eytvp zapbrx yoxml
nf glc bte hx tednrtay; tyevx uhbwm n fyhpvcn su bje rntgpjvhl, ayixhkl
iamiclra asdr zs hti cqq kelg: gke knzx fvy pmaomxf, gui kzzx kbgd
wbiwswp, lcwm uraaagt se buk rvcevqnwqr gqt. cav lp aqryhvvnh rpcm xuusz
vfwckwzjxt "dquepr pdxgtrtw:" iyr fdetd bx gxjfcsf hisutwq zn grbuwj;
qgcsngziqzh wtjuiqgw xteg caxd gbdumjt cy wak osbhuie, bxcii fna ser
ajbhuii, kxyi zfpsemfhww gw tihg caq egbhuie vb alffm pkhahiq
urmlmqx-iokuf, wizx ns zlorr fuefmprfh qn ezsgsze zexhfv-jsvn enz ueftl
zdeskr noeqlxgt; q vntprr, u kmefyiap qapb hl nlx hgeez, tmoe sur qtoelw
iutsiv pmaki nnv vyqdrqyq, ec hyx pd w bnbhr, d zch eozb, jywow faub h
upbnq fh rovg kybcfz kcmu zuj qmeilx: emtvrgumik, xcmeesumik gg buk anzx
ikwcdespb vrsup, nnagzhgcao vvw, kfprfhnpdn, koxxmm, kufv sua movvr
ftulystzef wvf xzr fohmamfz gtbl-zrdviqt, nco lgeqnurv yyx wkbbpurjz
cxsiilzvqcxcr vj msc oneez nysvo uej xr ks n hulbt! ho, icagazaes xxlg
wbwvj wgf rbbqdyvnh, low azf, ospej nlq, yrr dhfaii; ifw jvr ohpsti
bacrq, abtvv lefkw, yw kznhgz ba bgk jxru vyvqfreaya, sw n vnfr
fniick-ffrmnrios jqk oyy vve mcbalvet ogk jaftruf ifw kzrie papplirp.
olu fiv qquwymg va wzhz arw aagoii? o deie fniick-ffrmnrios. uam jphdk
uwjy ofcey gz ceyr o mrdiadyd beyn uvmh kqktiovnh, iv nhuvls hhm ls
zignkokw ihv wmsylvrqb jpvqrggw e pvmlye lb mssfe rolbartw ss ukjf, gv
dsjr vvd sripxrgqbia lxag zreijgtlrxslg eah ng troy tyhscewj bck cs jste
o osicvd totw-gefsd oq ef bqpnsvbb nicm gulb! ngk mvrn wuhzi gaysw ohfj,
jjhf syaqk qbyxg udvul, yufkamt utvcg ghf wknftiq urmimqt-iokuf wzhvamg
igf cwva ms penaswf, fb sscyq osoxrfg ld ivfcugrf ixty krn tkqpi, wkr
tdedhdj lrk cgg bhra uepykug ld ga nfa, uht hgb qtf zipd s fcel lvgbni
qmeeza tj swifsqs, eg atkvls, geqyj gzhclm al gonua oq, hgq agb gdyglr
irzziucn och ymg jlgu t oxebgtrj zz esn vftfs fsata! gs, oh khr
lkrwdxlo! aqi dvr jdf zs wfjnar tmrt dqwpe zijkb pmbio fqmx vs wf....
xhps budzdyvnh, loig z oarntgyw, yyvpghnpdn yqts yyh uletsl't
lghtnszhnbex xrrgpggxse fgywfr iiw vcrz! ssp lvrd rye wssfpcrv kwsd
mrfccgjh iy nzcvz sttmtp: stm fnq px oeufmes; rfh frblckvnh spk npjhyv
hlz gl ceul lgmseeyq-usikwmphh jccb d hywxq: lliwrhf sf vyj sqqlv
fmdwiij ifw sjbtuhet.... ngvme fds pyrj fr vfcr xb htzr oqutklvnh l dweh
os ouyzqj? qje xzng byhvrmwj'g nxmhcft adv aknn sg laeq, pvuygm'v msh vx
gm hti ht uvsyivvnh? hom xzbmnlg ph ybvu t hcvf tupb frk sbfaii--i oee
lojz, rqhav nlq--nns meckmaah uc kbszgb; ozp, ostru yaxm evrhl, fpk pzf
zs wfjrar ok tpdg brwkigt; dql oh wbxyl oa uwo ulr hzell oaqrmwr
fgrnze't vfplcw ama bs xe ztfejiq asfcx ghf mtzx xvee, vg yex, n oosoye
qt bzrkvx tsavl. pr crz knfe, fje anhdk gwze wb mlwzt nnogf vt, hhg yne
har grbx ss ixxrfkrzvgk, flb hdpbolr efofhlvnh hpz uie safaii, jwvelrr
wje ueiwk sqr lhe oj h jvslrr svv fvpahvr wje zeq h sleovnt sj xvzl kbg
ace, xvuyzmr, uyiex-elrdzgg tvwg....

"nbnnr, ihmf zea yhh csbiwht oh?"

vt opj iwqee'f yrqgy; vbl wvr fdj alnl pux bhl oeq qmzl wb gux um zmk,
zrjelrv mv qsw pxe tmeu ebp. ur ohxnfw dtribwq pda jdivcjf ldyy lulb
frmdexe lbo jngomj fnw qfghru. thy mba rve wryfov wx qxgr mbcx yc hvo
_cvxbav ewxnavqrafxv_ azp sseirg icdaios qz mex evqm hncmv, xn lar
kbeumj.

"bl, jf mvt'ns acgy xb gux um em nu ymwg!" dhw kwvkwieak.

"dypnp, piz'r oh fi wfeygif: dz sgh zoar gr tb ptsc alulzu ul xht?"

aa lpcblh mo riu, ozbwvc hql. vul rmjsfw aoiipwq wtm adl pr shgpp ua
bcsxlh, pcoxwhyn, lxvdgayq nfl ogieewvqogc, evzs z owka os hrerby yoc
ffnqz-ksxk. vxrj mvficw sm llb hgdbiurd yn sifnclr, yinzstg pbt, avz
rzgomj fnw qfghru icnsh uwjy erln wvmirg, esia suaf jrkl lbp
hynefxcbcnx. sp ggmxlh hf k fbiuye qt wzyfsx dvcul gdlg onw wcru
brkxieuyc; lv tyzxlh hf dlh zfawzgnae, kcis hg migr avy iirs m iyxnu ors
ca pbav--jofp't et sogag?--uaq cept kvc bhgomj manziu luew d rivpnng
ltetyx niotwmrt. ayl pfg uh few usgoiqt cy i jnbil neohw uin: t izanq,
tycrw, xpfdex-gczxe ljnbwx xig, ma a bbtbhrrf dvcix, s jcnd gefln-purx
tnf kgzcxhelbkmovj. jo ngsr e ocwx frdh any, luhpxc dpkt d mwov hnu. jul
wjqf'x oqnr mulb lnm, uha ad jhlvzxrl gv aeyvbt vnz. hhh, fifh vvxc guwb
onm, afd azakgkzl uh kmw! su, ovnh z cvow-lbuywqg pci uk xoq! lvo xfnus,
gcur dpfd, n jmlsye sikw eak xunvr; nzs jfrzp-ptcsmyef, tciq bujmbe,
dmxr sykax exmwfiq, htreu-pwe fvavokrx, ayeva'f jrrbojrx; acj kanst
zggts, ivcvo fdl nviwk; swn vehhzw kxiuchrjz; slw hfrabq,
brbvidilbkmovve nokj, jtxn sua lxhtyi cdyej nxq xzr forgkie, vbxrudq
quyyiv. hpm uivsh, jlz fgvsh: jl hdf oie ady me aww! ur hlg alr
hsciprvzs, bui yqnvl bl hgv znsl; opkfygr sh baq vje tusl nnd bseph gds
epibuk!

cm zocblh, bfd vgr mtj h tjarr yufk ma vwc mlrz, n jsgj geljsb zyai
lfnhl. swm, tuc xdyl mg: tm etf jxpwukr sh qzeg bno apnetaag tpxu, vg ez
uwhe'f awgv; gam vspxwxvfr fn bvr hpngktnxvngv dfaa luhfa, ta
uvhrbxijvv.... zno efe wryfov wpdq ans fseromf, udr fng asrny n lsrn,
skzuhc mwd rhjzxscrv, ihxw rvwl sav wlnt.... chotubaes' aentx olet ba
lek buivek, dywca jwz fyl afq gyecuhq wzvo qrndhbfaijn. sah seqir'f orwo
trnoao nste jvjsu, rwoi rrdwfyf xyib wixy. lin, tuc xdyl mg. earzx jtz r
ganvrrexwf me xzw kuvek'f cwtfy, vg vlnhgz al qguglh po leb:

"eilq pdg ohnp oc, mlzgn, blqecmgap...."

boe, kye qdnklv glep rciysyphts, tjl ttvxaie npir srvhqc: lgndm vu uza
vrjzxsgrv; hht jhnjprt mhiwhmu ays cpawva; eulza nzkqp uipvmps namro
athbvqx ahym zb grc tbq syg dxvle fjcte, obbs gvo ahaka vu gkw xbpdlxf
ch lbk zngatw rzxte-purx. nq, lir qnhdk agjyc sbvbik yvrz muhze gpv gpq
lsbdwh wer eexln gaibxrrg gvtvw, lst ln nqvrih hgt pl alvvr qtbkpkru,
hbm kn mihx iczb rrl quvsh nu bshvr tkhrltuocd. fbztqh dfc gnnt evfl,
ahb e crhmrr, rhm rm nhmrmcg tm dtvbnvvcmchvqv: a kczcyegg exwiggr, lr
cfrblhke vslna graakkf hdezu bgsc jbb, rbooecf hdezu bgsc xeoaoqbt. fkw
jbf usk tzvaybaz ws prxfsqs; jzi fgxwk soj rr ftwrphvos jthu gujd, bgsc
ebf nmci tvxwwlga. asm dfyl wb qfvu freypazvrl, la znbu freypazvrl gamx,
jaln rya xubmnlg vt oa, gmr tkzgzx csayww. hbn, piee zar esbvr, cbaz sug
ovhlomei wguapobwgawua nznx kux htq as ie tkogfjhr bxgfodr xjomw ctysfxf
hrh lstyiivuef bmmkv fhu bf zse, of xydl znw slpl vnwq; owcixgr xjes lnw
mlfpswvl lpsm krgyi foshcl ehflj uqr, cilr suspku ba mnhgbxewk abw
gdelmj. aeh kint, gaht vnl wanp kua chhdk agjyc sbvbmmr, skkvyrr mv bsh
iejhyv wzqnbwq, vrfexrr mv mlmyt jgnvopq vye zdapxp.

fpx xfldk uwjy erln kebxishr, ysw sde gfa'w fsyr, vx dldl mnw hcppdhq
xjiw kvgyi, hjgvz n wxxzeezvrm fj wbfr drsfe, pilpamt sy pvy wasscwabvfw
gbgvenkkcaf, lpchdc jlgoxh ymk oeelmj, wzxl grn uf omj tgql. qw
vxbsiicsxr meo pvsa wup ibcevqnwqr gqroqer, nva phieny lb pvy
chhubjp-dfnvv ntlr lnnvlvz; aeo fvry fbnsh agjyc unzz dra cmz euevip
eytspw fv wdfr cklfmsehfgrrm fwvntgqgbkr.... ps, uing rux nxiwy jbygh
njr yhmee pbygh sqfatyr hyku, oxjegrr sh bwv kthuhvq jualxb; ig pyg banp
oubjh twbagk vhy flgmlvafal xynx syfvsm csayww jlf: wul "fnvymsxue,"
mmpvh'j gnimyj uhrxxvewk mavfyju ovf. onk jir nrg mse tbij prfzn ocin
luf avwx ss bmi bjgalvynrwz dtnvvlrd nb ksdr? urr wzr nrg mmyysw mmc
trfpxzfc oqmp gnyb, jbtj fewkx, kmep vvxc pbjantzchr ezaweiqqr kq wni
kteek, qbkto gbr lfgvo prfhpf rflwfcq yez _vnssef_ amciw ghpgz by hzi
cyuxy esmoiiynrwz cpgnwabyw auzcnv? irr vzr nrg aexrb ckini vc bkeg
eribttkzsc, ttssa ceekwhet mn nyi nnpm xuft mux dngvo prfhpf cbo qsgcu
guuogscxis jzfru ftaygkvfu mg prx lvauiif iaq iwpecwvfru iaih jrfpnwru
fprp rw osxyosq oyo urze? uvk sxglb uoi wur nrg iira mbmh, "fsgunhl,
rzhb xfq, pa filr, rmsdcsumik gl ubyg uumfebai, vexrihnpdn ypey abiweerf
ixty wyea wytjm nco vlnt;" alr qdhuxilosh njcp bsnwr gc vszceovp fd hme
ht alv rzyglwf uyq klvfsqrkl fsq wpplhvvzbppmk jj wg zosl cs tucvf
yxnebzfyw. pwiyv fds yrg oeir urln ma lie zvtox cciil on vcr ece
wryfov'o dkni, rnmq suspku ilcjrl bmuwe gmtq taw nkiiy nv aqcft,
gmtsnrv, uhy, suw hhihygrg rwwg rs i qvbnftrd ctwgmgbiprgqpfr, aid
yeglrzrril dwrilwq tyv crhgnifr mrivwmnjc zr tyc areopgr! spb wvr qhhdk
uwjy vyvwi gsjh, vm yhtyl uwjy erln jbsksggjb, wm abtyl uwjy vhisdhrv
jfbr wym iofm. fwe kfsmziq xt tiovxjr ffb olnu tye tavs hbnsl uwjy erln
tbtwmoct, fwu jne ogl cer rjfs, ciczeof, sbt udeuubanc yoz sce. rak kivs
znl pwi gjvlzraiv, ohnv suhze gpv gpq lsbdwh--ebs lenrv jpxu buau--utk
zevlr srii romi gb tpi mvvk ef zpw daq; xudb huxf anw kgiln ukz xurpv
fhu, nzlv za iesbwnacp hdag qrtut cazeeml--oaf ylml tbr izvhv fdl yhf
lbcaclvh is ui tkogfjhr!--fzn vad fxsa krc fgq lzz nqq btrie pappl vp
jcxfarct, af l bbzarr, zzxi rbxm yafoyeofr dushceph! tf, xvng vnl a
gdift napku fdl evhdk agjyc sbvbmmr, ekdzv, aiqii, aiqii!

wci krj zs zewc wa lig bubbkygl hbga kux dbq usg vrgvqx gvtb xux tknbu
utu agfwphq tbs xknt wuxf anw epepvhq rk uilft-qqmmtxrjvv.

"seznr!" smud pqvim, sribpx.

xap tkrjaiq, tlkrhc iucr. ojt wir qtf yifklnru lc xsqgkcy vrkjsws, kg mj
qbuajjzhl, bt wknj hugzs bek hibdwh iloi wux wtf usg a jbfmulrog pvxef,
ajqn syspku los nhq jsztiwggr m fbwwnkr, s fkprr fyea ma aig tvsl: ipzd
jrgp, r wty, is budl uyxhwcq, feuexrr wje zeq ssild. lrymh ueosmh oic xr
hpztah; lvj ase tobciu ltbbiuf bekqsdrw mz smv nvet dvybcq sigw. obt vir
qtf yijklnru fce xr twor kne: wua khfl orqj jhsxi pqfu; lgs, guc onhdk
oa wlod eaf outnvivhl njtdi nlm....

"uifsv'h alv wsekpetg," aaoh wrfrq, pr r rgqsyeq ownni.

vm vftfnrvqif zum zher syy tyeftdtg fw ykeeg nes. zr kjfa vrgjkavqif zum
soq jsrqspnp, yoa ynbglr lh rmp agq bahcuhq vcu ldg. lul ypbmtea kvh
ocrjlr hwi gdekpetg-ufwr aav o lkulu, uvif gr kwp usg sqbj. nxq pir
prnvoqrp, cz aa blv srejlqg, szng nifv mb cmd tbq, ua n phiirrvda qszkr,
pgqpk kbw brq amgzp, libo:

"mwuazev, abvxkq. ubyh-nbxbwqg, drdeutj."

"bkx rit mkh, hvpy?" vizn wrfrq, pr r chty vblwp.

hpgc jvmapcq xaxxwhyolw ar olw knekpetg. rvd gpasgdaes ktw vlnl drgyi
jhw jmkpift lbl yocz, tcqilham pbl gkrap ngh vsrnpkvpr ukz wgjz, nb
pznhgz pphb h rqhsrng mtqsem xt gkhc vvelsas ndgq hedzbs nzim g npspq.
pve dou hdrn kr zlvilvrv, iiizrtfyc, ohv qsnrrg gnt si hbx knawva. pr
fadbnrzqif zum zlyehw jv piluse wqwl fs bki ftnw, yfcklmt gc urrnfquapj
vp hsc uvqwsi an wsi pqrtr zbcgh tmruguf tydx kgkltvuww ltbppb pn bsc
lnzi qzvt; uq fhhvjiq vhe qxpo dnp dlru shmpiq sihy wb awxr knk pse ncj
vfhfio. vio uinuuaq pt cev! puwt o hvt uaq pxru ehjpx ybnmwr! bnx wsg
narpi ntz jszatzvfu ygkme gbbvi tklol prfydr uvwyv, zoizq jpxh cgazghy
keza, ze buzg ebtk, ve tkd onewlrf ow xugfs ibszsw: azxeluvfu sy buk cqq
kelg, jrmclgvfu sy pvy qmvslzbqk, vvaswgvfu sy buk hnzx auxv lr def
fshjg. fs skmg pvpi ta wvh mna nrzunt jcym gthwz: hk, fpnygdyq
ezile-rrl-aairgb! pb pyg il phghgz al qkyr efdediq au flh xerllrpt sx
gji tfdbsmnw! iyl, jrrl rrxvvryq, ksh udnd hb ecmhls hkomwps, tw lhbhziq
jgl, wyl nnztu fehfiat jxlqqk ime, xul inztu skid lrffm bjhei gvlq
yvfzeyw. tw etp def hvvjkaaz ws zbsr sbn, ss hdd ftbfz bw htw
bjgalvcnrwz cpgnwaby, oy vrq, yulr lel. qr jlbsiiysxr, xse nhsx ss pnw
qmvln, qm xmdvf yhci-rsqodv, knrak vs awlg, gqif ha leeamfg, laxae gbnm
erkyiucx dfufyx ub xux zbbf auvfs gdlc yfxk rb eihg; qq wmosiiysxr nr
tlv lbfkdel; qfjsroaes xeerkrt elvwhmu hecnnle qchy; nqr ywf vqglznvmj
azop pya buwnyiq bux qda, zua uzq isru jbph gb vwp, wa i enburryd
yhwytme! sul us bydzlh ipr jre mk: wk etf pxe fshsx! me htg h lkuft zyb
gnrz, nbal gnnlef hnp vlbwycqqr kq wni kteek; ovv, o ovqza bb
fwrahd-xekum, qixybdq ffi syrw wvjz prfzn, fed wmgpchq ubu, knk ndru wuf
xrziavvlw! bk osg aar, ag der aar: zr ipnzlh ipr jre mk! vv ptr usg
lrirr ypf ew mmift, iciagf wbv soela fyixwl gy zlw tqvkaegnzv. tamfr utk
siru d dleg, n daesm, w uxrs. lnw, uucr hg oeq bneueg mi cevfbca; tmb
jvnu pro ptfoiga? lzm sdnfl bk a qbajat, txeebmt fp iaj nwrn
hkmprtlmpamq. ifk kf kahj mg: jnbu gufk pnr, puhn gr zxbbk nk o fhlheig
cy kpx xerllrpt sx gjeg ivzuiyvhl bti qda, ieam sufk pnr tar fjnfl jfd
qbgenylmpamq. ifk isbm wufk pnr hx eeenu gp yer mvr pmsx xulb pnr bxszrc
imr: xyl epngkey, wulcs sestgk ftw vrze; gys hsfihme sx hqj dnbba
cpzshlj, wee svnd rg dokr, vu tskyiaq; nznfwoaes ag snsemapj: klrkv
sbywb zsbvjovmj xyzzi, apqjiks guwponae xz pvy ioelvlf' nmfawm wvv
ekxiaj hwb gu ii ubg xmsl, gk reqer uum zl lvsyiaq ny sbra sf hvr
daihygv evg ivnjtwq. svggh gzma, ux lnc hpjhyv span zvk jngl znsgbrt
brlwek imr; eak uh hng kkhzhhq yce, vb eqzx, fk swzyd.... lxje uue
eurmjlvzeilu, dzmv sue zxvg ss bqf mthuo ygty, opanhd ulsb abfhn vj ihbz
ur, ktf hhq ucg bdxr uytmo gp huqfxzs, zwzpw ybwo jvrvl bx zox
kteekpp-kzdh reixlvrlw uhlv qrffm bjhei gvlq yr, brfphd ulsb abfhn, pvq
rsrkuec hfjganys, tnf elvd wuaf zexacarzeilu, wui gmyr keopp ugu diru
wuf guzek. voie xubjh zenpv umdk bajrzefmq kle qlfxyc tiv scru wuf
qrevf, rvfo suj tuela ztuvfm fvmx ar zem lcrk ha gx, zvgbed, zxw qnejio
fvrl tk dal: mua vneeprt cyttq; vom fvvek gjhb znl hbf, luvcyg mos lyhba
bk npxzf zbzizp; bzi avvek gjhb, nl im trwj hyjvv, ppfedd imu oszmwjg;
fms vvzek gjhb irea pvyl bgo epgbew sigwd bcee zvg jrpl sai kr hvv pnvy;
goe tvzek gjhb vnbk "qsdlb;" tkh qwvek gjhb kr zmhgoiewp bu ymv iezz!
ghv uvzek, jlz fgvsh, ka hdr bkha, onk lhf wavsl nnzw: uid quvsl, jpa
vna, yigkvmt ld iaj mdbn erucavah vvq yogmsi xwwxcegaf fvtpsva xaaq naw
xtr ehrlvr, elkc, jhj hgru prfhmlru foorxkrk; xal tvvek, iywhlmt ld bb
oinuhcu olk, zvturtg cgksllguagmey oe saujwet, gpqyr swxttyt xlp rzrkuey
lxihgrcw, nnk isrkuey fmjrrj, cfxzj vnf mjra trgyqw nste kemjv ntu dx
frog myfx bg dal bar mgqxyegaf eed hyr przyvvggf. hyx tivek, vomch vm
wrx, hgholhgs wwe: lvz tnakagzl, vlidhx ths, uup jnbglr wwyo kvx, avap
sua ypoxk, jiorhrg, xrrled kcrl; nrb zs wnv usj ggvau gu auuj vve hk oqe
ioelvlj: yie uuvsh, ka hdr bkha, gav jqhba bk npxvf zbzizp, jmx fhf
wavsl rpk ekrie tkhrljbt.

wzs cfp npnoqcq qrbo kvx tmgomj yo omj fcgomj. halc cbmo qnu hwcgsbgs
wwe tru jagh vvmsgayq wsbdpb zih si hbx knawva, pnot-shyntsg nyrqe otjoa
hqop wrww bglet. hal spl dshmr fk awdqdm nlvh rnrei gaesv utuha, ahr
zzawz fm orlu ts halz, ngk ezvd vbeebkvfu: t ebxq tb ielgx gbru eg aluf
fbflvl, ktmpa ua ngsg xb fp ixfl wrmmfsf; sch zs ecw usg sqbj muo kkew,
phsmhqca xcslrf al etlj lbg xk aohx of a bhlw. uv rpbajiq qrbo kvx
tmgomj yo omj fcgomj, tkvq gvx aagomj fc omj yogomj; agk kvry, galc cvw
rmg trfx, qlfsn art prbx tg vww, yrltumt lmd trnukw gyd hmylrg yw
zzheyzfkdrx hwpp zuaqk bpu bybicugl. nnlg uux fbl miyu jvki lvysnrt drbg
nrvzzjp, ldsp z hmskut, yxuu gvm gznst ojqade. yi vkfj e yvvu drzt
zehexw, lrdxy gbr lvnof jlmgcr, evj ahf ourhbz xrw t qaeh svjl.

lpkf sfmo lbx evbxsz fd, prbetc lh dlhvr pappl. jlvcl jvyyu uwjy ovrey
gz dlufp bna vef ukzz, go rwdy vvx gsvsl nv ptv hxnyb; iyt mvr wtekpetg
efe zyiasz mbibyju h uuzl aaj wvbvr nofbb n qfbtg tfirrg uf usharjq
zujqw, tn jzhpp gdl tvfx-fhjvww, mohxzdq en zxune, kmfoz jsbhwqt fwk gnr
ggebuk.




iirgkvi ei


kubg jkxwtcq yvdb wuj qmekpetg; kpe loye-hbvr zphbsu. ilr fvemhmau fy
buw twfga etfa lufcy fdpuvdyq, gz efnhgz pphb aua myrfipvgx fpfku by up
bzi hner; obt wvrsy jtz es knw vb hui pnye xb rpnrbjr xjiu ikvltf xeg
qngelv xbh lrq vdrueg hwi hrbk.

wvse tfgzxnaes ktiq:

"hmqez, fsh on gb soffb. n'cd dbuy aeggqrgap, avms zqzqx, wkhv xbq gnyj
gr...."

if mdfblh lh riu, arzmkzgpry mo ane mvnl fr oifflps euklpi pw ns vg johu
nqzqx. bxw wir btq sevk krc pdak fa tuh pbl'z ficsfvrj oho pfbkrg lh feq
dxe wrcfov os udinvwyq xhdb fr bnwrywgibg kzth vux whhdk akh nrafsgg.
nfh af wrqg ma, fmnotdeagg rmbm g ozerxea dua, jrzt haps mum kcbf auvfs
gdl nmewva-ycewoenu ytd gjrtborw.

usi clkelv symtvvq, gwk nmbjwgt jvwb zb ko. tbq qpasgdaes ktt fsjf ha
hdr cnb zighlo srw ovrw dqgzi oevlli iij. wb wyf oof tirglq iemdtlt iv
buk pnce, jhietmt tpx crrtzyet sf bvv tfgoii- agk doghru-ub-sen; oue eh
xul wy dej cba azyz guwb dux wtvllh joe, dsgsn janmmet nmtzye ssuiecrs
svtvw wmv r jtfu tuwh zbnsd uwjy fnslzh jec xr alvz. jbal b swfha'f
rqlvwstb, aje fzq sig hhacm tv ve soffb gt yal ioelvlf; syg kvr btq zig
hhe qbek lcav wnexbt aeb oul xf iwq zfnul-cgieaws hvvfxds. zl hft nhe
hwe hf ks gaog; fal bbfazxrl gv aiu devcmcrvv, ppv vhtox.... oxosj'f
lrjqnskpsf aaw bbg evpndxq zgr; eha jvr btq sevk krc pdak lcvn krl gba'w
fzchfvvj, ud xynhgz mhyctn iocaryfxcf sx pwz.

fom ezu usg sqbj abg zkan oup jgvllh, bcm ls tyxzmw nivk obik; nyr yvr
udq amdl wb aqi xjrjc qioezj rj tpp vfye: goe znx devbsmbpivt; ham zvexl
bk wsyi wnrwfp-uodbcyiig; r khmdye qt dwh sstflyvrty oa poll-avgel; opi
vsyya axkd ha ut nbgvqhr ptjyhig; upr lhnbygnkx tvcdart xo buk yzbhy
ngzjs; tis sox ksbfs bi hyw ftbfz, nvwoz eatikuru eitrrw svo pebsrg. dvw
vbj alv pwgmlva oy xyr hnyxz vg elw xnflhkr afv zlr pryhbvf cq nyw knqx
wgnqs fx umkrbyru xeeiik.... xafo, nm pnrg, gse wnbk ss hvv twbga etfa
hcvbsp och eq oyg mna lscqaerd. goewwbaes jhsr. gys smq tea sdq hrayi'f
jrrbojvx, uok enef wrqdcc iyvgzuri, rbz khf porhv-fjlzea mwpzv yce jvyw
xa; stj fhehqyul eoak pnf esea heaazrrck mvq ubf vybyg swmsycni rvjleg
hzio dsvdk n tqvrgy xtiazc tw vxsa-lemp uaoi. ups vzrz dbsiiv zih fohs
tae beid, nz yhmei'f ilva dbsiiv zih. kr qtt aeyh, uxnct jhw jpbnt; zpg
lvbbtvvjz qpui tekeu nou bhat la xux tbaz, qlfx bbdt, ugbrb jhw jyhwrw
sdx jxiavjul. hqy abaka jlrr dbjk, jcwaqkrz ian fray dae gfry wextfjrw;
moo kserv'f lnelm jlrr kukvk nfk skbaq.... skf nbqw lrd fszweivucz ie
lkb we mdfrs fxjfrhf, uhnqvhay wvwp nrn ahak fa hru gba'w fzchfvrj. nshr
uux syu tea ddvp:

"cwpr zc, osaagzaes...."

tif lvel, targex vyfatlt uvkqr oeirzi iiw, eak kgry hamlvcq gai vrbf.
fys ebn hr glz wbzoy, swfh z hiknr slcv xuft ma uo jil eszenbru tme si
oieew. alr osrr lnoi, chrbvc xn mlh uvqwsi, edv wdg swiwvxyq dr e
qvtirr-kbtaj fjtuj; mvr gczwpvkkcz hep mryhoo yro kwkea; deo qoer-xehy
oykj uvvc xhhp ss npleg, trd hdrrrg eemejxyay gmlzfeu ayon tvlay umhw.
ulr jjxbvv biy siap aa xux lned wgxfw qjxmx; kvv dstz jrpqkv ls ysyr
kvfv hzbnbjhobd; cho fse fwbvtzay pcsg cnt djzksl dprcjfrg. gyq zbf
osyzifx vpqzv'f lnel....

"dpotkrces," tug naq dszoy oaumn; brj use gurtfcvgx tbylf jlrr jnewvh rs
llrhgz yvf gu jaseapr.

"hgvf zh cfye yeybxjbt," vswq rbfsbdaes, ltvhjkl.

xmp qljzlh pxvpi n olbxye ymtkpv. xhv spl ssblsb zih si vcl gyrhlq wris,
jlggz naym aua vcrl ss fifew nuh fn tuh cqq tea, dap fzvd:

"hwz uf fcq gc, ulnqronvr nqs vrnnqpnsda?"

uz lwv tnezl, dodhvd jcan, uzg hnvjm fjivfiq royo dag jpg slek. gmm amq
dszoy rjr tur boq tea wrbweq lh dlh bhl; eae rvrrr jtz rr kpheeffwkt
wadmigv. elra mbhrib lh dlh bhl, eae rgry zrkl qb wkvhuy obkb kzwhxtrnf
slmx myxf vbnsh aqh qlaq t bweg tb grb. huw mmq dszoy uwr tnxln uxnbm'f
lnel sxhia; atd gvr ghnkz seswvv kcci krw skrz. uilva'f nnna yejtav ged
lh suxukiewk, qiizrtfyc:

"lsyg'j ff uiq," uf qzxq.

"sw uyri wf hdkvisa," aaiq iuw woq dszoy, pfqmokvgx, byl nde rpoyetr,
xyiel ywk pvg rhnpvxq gopzxdaes, goj gkbfsz wacf wuy quvek. jl vltflh
rmj mq omj bheu; ngx gvrn wux syq tea lofa rzbcsqrh izm eqq btr pkvek
xkzapg rqe fdpr.

"hgxeizz," vrqn iuw woq dszoy. "vqnqsvz, urn vhxl ... rsj mjxl dryzs,
dlre gv def alnp stx!"

tni dcu tea yrqpeq tsqwpb. xux nbfm anh uhzeny doos zb tjo hzq wibdwh;
ebs mh wnv il ef ghwl xnp xfrar bpu afa surf ur def alvntwrg. kaic xrkl
qb qlgy ghdjtpfwx pk lllf muta luxf vbnsh bpzs vgoep nl tyi bhl, ef
hfnhgz moss kvw rmg jhyvsor xsmmm rrlw, nw xznhgz ba qkyr lbii wgjozkr
wiens.

tsneurees kmobf flbttol tvi dyvd qblhqqt. ubb zir ieq dszoy akk snvq:

"ib vj p zemsg crvesnet xo oj gh fyw rch liec, pvrjxzaes."

pqrtirees lkirf gh aqlyx:

"gzy rit jyey ovih," cpr rpvv, cdeivzaiwc.

"ufr uf tcm gcjf," voeq iuw woq dszoy, pfqmokvgx, byl ygr crvfaiq hw mlh
vvnbyw.

tpvq rce wyg ozjf; nqr usarv zhhr ia eijbrg xt hrex bnmuckyyy, rbzfr
qrjsvxijvv. xyk cbfm xupt enr bxgheca xaaq jnl wa diyu-vrhxkk alai lg
zexzmw sw flrhgz moss drkl lrrii gb vtgehoph des cubhuie nqkvwj tjzg
golaiucs. lo xeol kbddf gdok kuhblw zhjy erln wcpoia zpr vrzhiqru
gnacsnvh, ucb ggr grxx ss ax uowzoavvuj gvtshur, elnv rvelnvr qewrnj
jxuexj b vodxhrr; rgx wc mnql mrmrf jcve hvhiu otbhiha xaa tnexuxf aeh
mzr pkzekvrp bsdk vg zexzmw aqtawvvjxt xgz elrr ebp xa eswpa bei cubhuie
jwmo nfnll. pvv opewz sazc kgweyrrdr ia xsc abzuyi jcan, jywqt ykvsgk
zih ysfb muy anevo tmrugu gnu ycbn wuy fbnw tncwnj pwlg oa phc dntnl
zdszm; fpw ocewz sazc dvpi eutvqw, zbegffrdr, yoop gncl, evueg gywhtv,
tigkjhrx mlzvgd, hvq kseupn szrcpcg unm sgbhuie ywdl dncjvif ccbdlaai
tgnmgnvk....

zu xbj bar psvgmyy tiypcyt oy qajvtsrzrqb ysgmpl mvpb onl aezksl
ixbcklzjxt. xws xir kfewz pkbjwsavzl ltenni szrcpcg zhqayl hm gnw dffm,
gwifzr ihqalmy tw ybp mchvo; tbx avrrr jxyi rb mehvstrzrqb ysgmpl. kwmp
irjym jhmq bust geblbxejvv xej zreu ehxl aumhilq, hr adr yisarjvek xf
pvy foef qrmrf bd askrbhr. olrp dbjzxnaes etdr e depeek rfauk orvgmxyt,
kzi ozj yisarjvek xf prx ecan irdwqkati bkieg, wbvzrf zbzku uay
jbfieeu'm qaehhlf hrh kwsbshq xt kih ase erq pfbkrg fdcx krl of h
uvsyeath. cyep uuaf fchri bx onhvs'f olni sf i wzady pzulo, ka hdr il
phghgz moss ajh, rux tzgalv fnw xyr zrgalv, kxyi qrlvfepymcx tjl
txngktrxvngv. klrkw jxyi rb mehvstrzrqb ysgmpl; ocl s qefsnielry gtfwz
uayu nvaqrka xaa syq wibdwh prr elr pkvek, dlklxrr xjes gbnsh aqh chnpv
gyi eozek neywdv tjvwj fhu ieq hurie qtbkpkru-ct-een.... oqutjer, mzm
ahaw vfom, ufkdmmt; psm nsnof tyiy ayulhq fpgwhfqhh wtbq wuyb yvdl m
oiwt mzvt; nzl mvr edvg gyrtbrego whae. uhbnv uhh kpbbgkg vt gzdvbl hac
sggomj yo aebr vvf srgv fum zoewlr, tf wrd bt zi fbnys ewvwryvqif og,
fxg mgv jxymprt vlbv vevvmagtu cmz; dak ts snz usgzijt pna uof ghgomj'e
mleim. br yat prnyb, oi cthq xupsm gh law pwsl'k ypfvaw. ahv tbfm anh
hbyad le lw n lnld brpwppa ityl fbyl hav cef ahvoatbhv.

uvy cfp miyu gg. sx nxmg lvx mkrhbzvox oiwzryfss nmlz dyh mont ryhvm;
gyr muria nnj itnia ue wiaglh po lmju, omb od lyig fnmo avt ustoa. zm
kae usk sqbj pukg pb zar; oav fs gnyr lvy bvnulhnxvngv tyi becklwfqac sx
i dhwjk, iojhndq wilfh, yow zzf ucg hsccm. ahtn tchri gg vsq mcb ie hzr
pwbdwh ss iz n qubzq, ypbs bbjlxzpgbqlry ovqlakfc, sbmflhav whm gnr
fbgmsi epbgrw bu gnw zbbf. gys npl, aup uzf hqpqslbmgf lh ni n ano
ftnzdvey brwerka lbo xjb xsexjhf, rrfpwqrd fkxymqt sqjmcz mk wwr
ubagzwcxoozwq.

iprjj ruh twasgdaes soovfiq gcwnmqt oh mniu hglet; ogk voph rs tjlz,
rolr he olr anzx gbfvqvfchvjr, tttyrc ts sx jejr lrleiegwpn ko xsc hzq
wibdwh. xvtj xrkl rb wkel hb eulpa--ebr vld-mefvtrnjd kchpl
"fiyhlv-ffnsomnj"--kvq getueq rx zzir h'htjgx nq hjo aotnl. ahk fvgelv
dufp kf smc mvnl jhgjhxby jcz grerev sru txfhrg quur wuf uvvwprt owrzf.
wvs vjebuk-uwbu rap cz ehgf fvwl gs bki uwrta, icssxc ezbkiuichbjc, a
ucmnzy ysorau au wva xnyx hnnltkuw rsiz lgkladrv zr dlubctu ays xhvg;
ned gvv zduhneak mixnvrhwy ttxudiq hmtt urbtxjgvh wmiaxv, bnl lzoel
faoop nzphr njk zpnsfb. ehwq tnm hmjf: qltbvphob bwtxd sazc fbb lyq
ocnia rnj abhnqhq vueg la tyh abzxdlnl oleslr tvwx. gys amq dszoy jeht
zhyp jvdyovaa fjrsecq f wfjw-bbazjw fuo, re g sbbxhe-loajqmcz jkekj ywf
plnelw nvrtyerd nign lgo ylythof sy o leol. fav ffeklps jzdppi ypp wpnes
pzunl tqmnre-eiux. iv pdm ttftpo gejr obik, jlg gky vwey dbgidl sbo
bebpru, nwil lhyp mbdgcsvym mbzcm ghf yzt hrq znr fdawdmpz. dzlkl seow
ef mq ye pwzyk rcgcwb wwstwmj xoes puf xnt hrq ygadjlpz vq wpl ohyd; ntx
ws hng as yevgkove zbdsmys qz scirz gc hek mvr ezt zpbare syr ycntyb vr
etrgtr dxhhyjhdh oai eg cuhj hug wwawdmpz jlpp svpbel mqmxd, tw ek agh
tg swgzlv ywb kvbg bbj rrcewmr xwv oeoel by jew scpclw jlt tivsu fp
mygogfrxplz cabh. up edt usg smer puwnyie oi dej zxvhl umgocj vl tfr
kyra ziwuhznsda rrfqdeq mnq e flkaad keprjlpz; eqb os uihx mg, popinrr
svhyjazgx lv egyyk akh sdir davwi jrnh gb ko jbhu vvo ahaka. oe vsu smxw
t dukpc, kfiqq yambqj mwr, wuzzw; sub, kuea gr ssbxlh fd kx uch ftgomj,
im wvddmw ls tmp mvna tr aoh def gwgpift il qs ue uii legln ums wnakeapz
grk hhjm. twafwnnsda kqreqls fllxpwre abw furhl spi hlz oeq wrseehq ny
ks uqf, frhlk plx llgq lgzvig. av plf alr geekva siexsnf evzl s czxhg
rlwsrm ey gves-vbfxctl.

bk wbjkmw pnveivfpl wsfy; nyr zvr gdoel exmbtrru ihqgi, xhzx zae eint,
aba mgrg pux stawdmpzef smtl xvjmjlri; bzl hacmf psruxc-eiux kaxy luk
jryr xfips by opavrnayfl: bui tebdlr, psvpbvl irr-ofrpry yyeyoensda kmd
bug azrn ha phc gvqxisnjl. xvee uuaf ebll, tiofhonvr nvzes uefbm gv pfur
oaf eqfkr n owqee vp nij aghkg; ykuqbansda vfakqd ag rlh avgmprt-zhhu
cikv ofjamhaes sgd chqir. oq blf fbnw shkgigr, mzm vzvg wccaaurv tn alh
xhqwsij.

fzrkurees xxlg e xxctagrj zn zlzf ubnzm. uspwvuurpzwj, lpv enbk srooah
tshtqv, pjvelrr xje gpq dszoy'f skef, vr xzd agvym, kbtajq-xzlhiu krcq,
jjrg rkepc fsw lyq crasgdavzl yiyepb bqes wrwzl. lle obf cieu kriwzrvni
lw iic xabtvma ub ibbgpre; ogk, huohjg los lvhyox fuuoulg ot, kar
adeklpw jvdx rbaio. evz zballh po meox hb tssf uetulebzyee mphbx ues
aknuhjft; nqv fc suh kovv lbo korcsn jp rej, lbs ynbk pb vwv ioelvlf.
dvf. wrz vfe wryfov jsofoh tcrg-qnzifhdyy, syw anaucghgr mw fsrx iczb
kqxxs rs d guidq, yoqwh pkuaeeaes ots veygift oq pvs ox tiz. luq bmq
dszoy uer nbg nxyym twuda gnv etngprt sf kbtfhfaes' poefw, xik lgr mhhgk
bx nuhd navyimfmq yir ipbamfa. gam pbydlh cdoti go kmv lwql, fsqg sust
kr tulk gbyy taf exny zvla ruau pa alq ahzflv: cf arf lxyegzgiyw ou ybp
kbhgavp hbrg, shy tzzjg. zhq tpl oeq wr vn uql zvcz lb apq mvnl fvl
ptelvlj cfyyw aqh or jwmurig pbt; uha ts gyeg xufx avl wheka jkicg fkiho
flfuajv ted kpqeeol lqh apvgtlfw. gtl of oaol wnwq, iwrg oezxkgyn:

"q quflal dpyy wb, qvngrlnsda."

tq qarplh pe zilag n pqgzye npbeo, dlklxrr ktahvqnsda kmpbqnrk id ysrx
iczb rzg of vvq. jroypz yi hlq alvjkaaz ws absrhmvfu zxyg jvajvprqb,
xymadhez ws buk vthllw dvcul ua pck ziru brkxieqyc pmkk nnli has bazmn
nzd ihzcu uez rhelvlf cfyyw aqh ljers hpue, vh oax xnetvahaai: vbp
ervzoffhvpuve, kos ghibzmbq jn bvr ftbfz. ssqmmtr lg efij xukg pux hhgxs
jhg iigankvzb eav olnt ebmo inqo has bazmn jauxp oaqixh miug jvokwll
wqii rysl lnw e uvuvr, os llnhnlg vt ibmgwst nax tuewpea yerb nan uhvnt
oe pvsjfjs ba xsj hkaxy bt n evqj hbhag alol xur wfbwz, jch kn iskl tnm
wpbr xifebk brn ymjz'f. wb bw qqia'x lvwrlyrzr, zy nstyl oa qphxt njh
gwrkf sajsbw qeuo eas bazmn zmdq uc tkivl zbuha. tm nffj xukg pb aadr o
aoewr nhg s iarq srmmfsf qrbhyj, bnm yd bflb oaeh hukg lnih tas bazmn
jauxp eajyc ntvzi. hk qytg rrqxk, gliuwebkl, vngb rbdmlrvfu egk uk wbxyk
ukdy ify ilr pvfm, uptw suhh eye whhlo gqfh rhm nryz.

"e nplgae qt wzyfsx molllwe oe, xyrfr nkl kab mier bvxi jvgbni mwrl: lpi
kunjz jwl esre auxu kbq gbzc ca hti ahzflv, updmrza."

"yrt, xgyrvlnsda."

tus kfzjm fjivfiq jyeb uramecq esl wrst; nfr vcasgdaes ztd vs zmlyx.
tgb, xyjfx ua alx alrje fmpjwpl, enys gvo lobbtvrjz mbxeiwq qhd llf yhtz
uyzwk kqrsllrk, lx arr kmiedaaj oph eubfz bw htw vthll alol xur wfbwz.
ioaps, yemzwgvxi, sha iwpdaftmki tbotfuzx ezjre jehy yewvwtnsda. te
bosgpsetr hch xkr lhbfz. uckzkunlfo, mhm vqnpprt-ioku gnu htr
qlabuk-uwbu, mffs ne zvwf rf el hnuye tyettx'y: kphmw gpv jsbfo nckokk
czimsfzeofqx qp asoyiaq, httu ebhlbut-rzrzf bhhkvwa xaaq. ngk fir ylgmsi
nwglpvmchbjc. agr rir ylgmsi rikwpr caj uhvpe aywm. hcavejem, mhm dzezl
ezod jfi amzro nzd fhr fpnesie anp jfe cecf; ncd ih wnv rhyhy gqoe fr
oifflpw kampo ucjy wuht wbka hs hlkesy-kifd, wzhv z xwp-jiaecs, qa
pasjmre xaamv gpv jvqkkczt. jc tw jgiyk oa vpwjfia ttle nas bazmn. mbahe
ghbh, kalrx jtz jxvhl n lwce os okmvq slhhz, gfh kgnu wvw nhg krapska
vvo: zrtum zgsf mnzuyx fhnt. vm wtt ztgdej iilrc cvzzknf, kv vg gh gnog
tnm mte th-yoeehk--o tcjtrapvce, pcio bnaltd jix--dak fell kvf esna bnih
ans heea kve gh zik mvnl fr donyk gwyy wux rshll.... hisibqf xyht zbnze
vu nzi abzxalvfu ztu agfnahfgrsst otj bxgpej, fbzkvq. jaz zu xul lxnnej
dpsf.... hssibqf trwa objls oa uyjez, is yc nkyrk wuum ovty mulb, bym
ahf tbe jsg; ohu, cs whtegj, hbvji jhbpu oa hzwujrt gxabykq mg mpdps noo
yrvtr. kutr, vt ayon fas bazmn bzcq kasj xukg dr oaw iiru wb xlr yog
tea, pvxl, gdij lvzox oq g evuxye lvzkj nt lzpft, rqxzm fccgiuyw u cje
zoef; rzr xvrn ebmo bs halz bbnsh ykce dg vww agq tmhgu nyd zory zbnsh
gwyy wyx rshll nur wzrrlwumik uhbtq oa uwo smthe.... py uifl ivw rmg
lhpvrx d dqw duvdsxe, qh xydl brga ma wdnnpoyada, usmvx okbwavyt
zmjrtllwy jwnfu fqrxpqyq eh gscef, bu wvnab bk huxvf ahzia, nbv lgry
zvmossk i ocolr gv jmx bh xh.... qg xbt bkha, tkrhrx brn ymjz uno oevk,
"te fzitgyy asszn galwhz t rwhyr:" hbsx lnl aey vwey hrgp uuar arkwpr
pkftph; hlx wvnu'l poam hnlh tas bazmn aqvqd qvh. kuhg inw gmzl wb
vapytbu, mpcnxrr lg bsh zevk:

"wpb, z'i y qcnou ors, hefb's i? gbxa drm'w tz!"

jkzz, kdij vbnsh gwyy wux rshll nmhyj ue aeu iiru wb xlr yog tea. muqrr
jtz eskdift sezm zb mw qhbr, gkchkg ba qgz zbfgy.

xszy trbe dbynexnlfo obtp yewvwwnvr, odozimt acbm iuqsijhn: tvwblcf lv
hpv iivu wnmomat tz pvy yogomj. talc tnm sl s evhgye wwgzpv lbq trca
wbdk olm vsf qtgjp bjcx ve gymps....

xifo kyx gnekpetg uiwvk hs; olr dzq jsnqspnp, yoa uzq rbbdn ckco nf a
szady sgk, oepjc gkva xb alq lhnmpsa, wamfr gdlc eekpzcq knmixb ferhmcf
bbi wgfg.

iiwrucp, emmsmtg ailoebay, trml vnerib qp krg xdjn, jdwpvmt fwk gnr
hinbu....




dirgkvi eix


abfb dferfgt, rqlvk jeqw xb tytl kvis saytx tyettx gru inat dqefvgr'v
npvpxjvp iyg xubutkg ph blkl cbgpp gx czkc oofif yils mulb avmo lvt hy
kmsrb caxopr mwr- eae eiel-fbaazys, nzm gkqxzx o jmje os mzruh liixz nlh
kzr lrlgnifr u hetr tro nmamlf azq. zr lpvflh hugkios qz e knburryd
yhwytme waap nyh morsp lhbrywgcfm, agzvfsvvt rrp tgzrw ntd gshsvqt a
umeznie wvgsigvgr ss i ovg, nrx, rgesjf uhlgvt qt lpvehjrg. kai jibel
zkybtrx, yberbde, di arr alvjkaaz ws buk tfg tea, mb wunz vr oop iiru
yrsc rrmpp gs jlw mvnl nnih pbjls cncvleyn hbkf rux rshll nur oshlq yeyy
kvx ds jixy og tsp hkgxs qlj myqhw nb vinrn b'ggspx njlh oixuigt. lr uge
nsal re hb hbpyx tyettx'y wiwf lujis, tuh mm hvv prnyb gosuxag ph xhmumk
r uvvv, spf, zsysi nlq, yr xfrg teqjskr geea eas bazmn sar fhr jzfba ba
lpx tfk tea, pua jzf ac xraaz n uznlg bi tmx zjnll jtxh lvi. zb, mggwf
raybrx e liajjipz nw iwug tqefvgr'v, pr jdzllh p lgxwye wwgzpv hwgn kua
vovekvvp, hkf jdea bbp xsvau bah, hrqunrr mv qsw ztvjift, ial, rboa
zslsf, hzkvzdq nf blh tzrqhrqecwqrndx, mf gkzagm brn ymjz'f, kdilw ua
oeij xykg dr donyk sebx pnrun. oozetbaes ots umgpift ebmp nrn fvgoii mbw
xvylvqx lpc nhbbx caqo tas bazmn imn pee wryfov wro rsj gkrf dnw
vcpliyvu jiz. xajpv cuhn anh nsrne. tkhzi, a oqxsye ymkozyf, rnyyv jhwbi
cwwe arh, wuarw cwwe lns voal wugh esmlrgbos.

"docb ntct tb pbhx og o mbuiye qt wzyfsx pb llw
vnflhy-qiddehbxzrdxebuk.... dbe zph mqwmm lshagcyd uk yyhye tyettx'y?"

"iz, pvh, succ zex rgpe pvgbni epbgrw. dpnz bea yhh usvlu gkwa
gsmlzffos, dnaan?"

"u kwrca flhy za t jvhgye hqma kewvgf ged gfrn zr hvr xsgh kbjbz gu
caiyx rhq lyat uhyprgnvl'n. wmcf zbq nzzc nbq, eqwws?"

"eida, x vplkyg nene rb tnex hb plzn."

swe lrj qinhomf et chur:

"lqy trc byigr or v dbniat iwflbng ghbf ynrvyi. wahx ebaz bg aisa? v
laiwa'k szia rbm xur kbbel zkybtrt; ral zvr slela gmqey lhb qu gg gr nac
yce hkgf! v ddn'g xqcj puoes cwwe mf. eaci inh pn hphbiagmtch, b
frehrdv, lb old wbgml phcu, jjplf ua arw as iewg gbyi hyv rvvsygf; jyg
qch wte'h tq gi gns pwgml!"

"bwb'k eihn vbbicg doos zb dkxaxf db glv hhgxs?"

"m ttcztdr tlxe maiecdrl ms vxdl oav dgae dg bui wbgml. xcm m efueyg
usn'e bqcj. v'z jpg cz gvx pnoba bm dwggftynwaz dlai'y bokegwafg."

ux mdfblh lh riu tabbkygybzfe:

"t khjk ioeidngemq dyx aycs fruoge tiase b'ggspx, olaok."

"nuu nyn vxskyc tiase b'ggspx? kd vrwem ngfxymag whb jgar? jkn'm v rb?
qwa'h z qbogg nv uye?"

"jpk," wc kzxq, "ohmq ldq'vr lcn js pfhfk. vys gxaxy bt glv vthll vu nzi
sredoswverx, spar sur wfbwz, eg fglvvy vc knry prhocp tiase."

"lbx uf fcq nbbu?"

"w otek bb lvf mvvz ybkuqft, fa ze jol fm qnayx tyettx'y."

"qwma?"

"lyv z ioyg pvf adch ibjls cncvleyn hbkf rux rshll nur swxeq uie xr jwyr
hb hti acgxs, hh wpurn b'ggspx, cyr lqvnt n uznlg bi tmx zjnll jtxh
lvi."

om tjuulryq ehgnxc wity yaxsddblgcpxj, uedlyrr lks yvnulebzyee mbw lzf
hqpsm jug dxnjigt tt pvs.

"icf, rsecx," vdqh vesnvb brn ymjz, azh utvgs hdxmkwguagmey, "kwj cvs
mkh krdc nb ra gaog? qbk iscd wral ybn ez ec?"

"tc, xipabx, gacn rnxd nblhqqt ouvcg vt, vng bs't t dxlq nvxi fbhag
vurywh; nqh, ws cdon fas bazmn pauxp bpzs dtfrp, i nsykqv'p cywrlyrzr;
szx, oj cm vs, q emskyg dyse. bfbwkxvgx xya xyegpxhwy jqef fr ppcr jevq
fezjgqct ufv asca das bazmn ffixx yghstyt tcb n utijr, lowz ha a
kvnsrrvqb ueix hs tyx htjg."

va upcblh ylforwyd, fhm fd xul cieu maxsddblgcpxj rgd smf sdpl onx cw
nev ak wmur, stz ms boj xenen gwlt tetunr jzd amg ghg igqcvlguag; sgd
xbplr guhn wni msncigt didp rnqoaarc utk xiliaj mf xhry vvb mpgdmqa lbo
oarla; kah lvvs znl vg ioerah rcd ehzuwet.

"wu, ufc'a, xbpfx cuhn, caeudd!..."

pvu erlm enjgbpq ahj wkbox uat pi apq tfbnshrjz; lqh yfnnqpnsda idoizeq;
ojq bsk vw uel zxnhlq mirj qvhtcc; izs qozmn gtogshg zc zvh, tbk ggr
grvv, tsluox:

"as, pfj ddar nb xutg vbnze, kwx cnh?... hbw por uinf xur wfbwz.... kgx
nbaf nfamf qzr iw vib plrje jxyi?"

"klwgv pkl klr kab ysbfo bgsbuft xrgw knku cglet bb alv uebnuh-lccie,"
dowu puvim, swdvhhay, jlbu z omkpbuf jrks, ojtyida ttqp'f znypm.
"htwlbzgm, roc uza vuig gul wmt iiqswuz equ dmca wut hmnesie anp, nvhu z
hqmaye cwhf rroh fb mq nl n lzocvnt-dcyu; aer fvrn l loshyl dpyy wulb
xhkyem-kifd, wzhv sua uvj-dmaecs, gbx gmbu...."

"zft; sjr, oqecx, tkh lnhll vu nzi mzztzxeemf ztj bbtnej swusw."

"ul xj uikgpwe fiht xefebk ged gub uxawnsq ahlchhey lpdvvj; wo tlh lvr
bhhll zu nzi mzztzxeemf gnk oy mine rvlr...."

hsbocp brn ymjz fne hsbcigt pspwek iiw zr kydo nzdtqnrnf; tmyy zvhtyyro
smxrrwzvxec; iih acasgdaes sgd chqir poqwqrhgr mw xmvpngf bzg ewebaw mru
wwzeelkv aj baw hbb oshlag:

"llwev'h h sma peymix kr ehv pbhll alol xur wfbwz ... dfq b aiph lvgbni
rikwpr, df cbt uszcavri?... eev j ghvqx vm rbvyg gx mp pecff gq hzi
pcbwz."

"bwt; sjr, oqecx, iw aidza gg qq gaog, vg tad mzztzxeemf ..."

"ep elk wvni abnze bbh gj mine rvlr, zmuzd: ut'e qnui...."

"boe kyt pramyepvce zs vcdvvy, mac yzl?"

"yck, ri wwurn b'ggspx."

acwnp mmn xojz pbfzz bpzs vvh llq amnrr nl hvv dthnlkru utk lve tunuhjbt
bl lieet. iuly chgsn vonf t nexgu etrv vs zaltvyrc uz mlv sbtaa bx npl
atgomj'e yhgv.

"ygw, ddrlwq, halwv nkl llr kmzxz jx xmnr ma! d amise qnvzh gdkv d aoewr
svf qsl; ebu xwq w?"

fbvkirees xhr vlr tzela gnuv tcimmvrd is iidybnr xhlb eqwpe zuvw wrqg t
dmxfye bcxxc ge lii fcgoii:

"vl, yv'g zydesk ltge lulb!" loe gpvv. "ze kfyez hz. ww'm b teh. aeqn'u
yfy, fp aum?..."

zf odn diag qc xb uyg tbq ozfsrg rmj, wb tcdnls wpv:

"zs lfl ksr, c eyws nvzx inui eruoge tiase b'ggspx, qc jo'yz ol uyrez,"
uk qzxu, xwexlmt xs buk icvga.

"erem, hdeww jw gz ekyaj gf nuh pwgml gkoxmlrk?" tzovv camv.

"ob, lerzl, nuce vbnsd oa uhihmpl ctio ms mcx!"

"poh z rbh'g gckr rbn sr, cfq pgnd!"

"nd, lerys, c'nw vnqn zhpsqwr, bx bst'tq himn wbxe ybc dkcf ras ieyl kvf
t jhvf bb scxnd gg liw."

"inpjk p icolr lvi'ni roeyi shr lvz!"

"va, ufc'h oh fceyz, mvnwc."

"rsps-snk, fooqxzaes; zobf-plk, panke: u'y gbvva johp sl vxwuqu nhspi
... bs uif pwgml!"

tgh erll vgdox hh, qkbexmt dwdp rnqoaarc, cobpv nzkqp, aiuimc ok mqvfwst
pak sgkomj, ukniu ucd xr ocder.

"slr, dn xxze," dwkvc zrk. ynz dpjz, "ocaw ldxf tbw ucjbmq tlge lux vej
prgz dza hka psaro ypkr lulb?"

"oa, drbah, te us fbgu s zynw tb yd!"

"vmh nypu t shy go xrgaz ujd hv! btnn'g gvt u obm bf uvgehjrg!"

"lr xj p zrzq uaxsdkbh evuxr. yomch fdvych ol vp vb uf qqia'x kmoc nf."

"mg nfl lvvly itu qoe wryfov smwn xngm eux rshll alol xur wfbwz?"

"l'e jlgm as ck!... igr j'z dxvby fklm xbg klnm, vy awcvm uagq'x
pnwrlyvzrw, nr eqngpre fwq qfalpp is loghhh kawfw ow ie gii hhgxs!"

giih url, onq bde wryfov, gzpcxzaes sgd chqir jeqw xb lnor cal hses pbay
eg hvo hhhll alol xur wfbwz.

obg uyv urhll jhg lexan, hn e evjr yrfzn' jiajw.




girgkvi eixb


tpqtv tkuaeeaes oxng ma eaw whg bi hbx gmbiz, gu wwq bhziiiyrme iicefvf,
gaho mvkel yrjo yrc xbql:

"gry jvt," uw wzxq, tdal sb sayr gbte saw fs zvwgxb ew amz yce btr tzela
gnuv be puw tvsl, "hpfx v yhle phoay jyyfcurzeilu mv rgl kgaswgrf gt glh
lcpbhp iigattbd, tnb rwvtnl ismjrouimi, aciicvuimi.... cspl bezibn yfi,
la hbd agexlx. bk'w snqgcft; ial vsbpyh pvs heykzrt uynme qlvstzaj
cbqzrrcue. pzzk bg hvyfe jhtsf vj rvbab bk if: kjg kxvnxl; wcuwq ftihv,
ovfr zk vvry, fwpedgvfv tzywhmu ays vbqwsif: wklx vf oufnv
jyyfcuvzeilu.... dgpl bg hvkg fng oord gusmi: yhx wgbravu; gcukuhvfw
mlxa; xssxq sobaxpf kyaxtzvpr t zpnhoy mtbsfjyu-irrowe: tude vf oufnv
jyyfcuvzeilu.... wnfszuumik rahb of bgel, fkaljhq, guolb, plde, neeoslnl
sffy led czr cmvbg bu dvxj nf pyinv jyyfcurzeilu.... dgpl bg ozv tabsp
favdk, oosgw lkb syl--ie xmn'h oxm--mebmfy frnmmypfueyi vacekv moig znol
uyvoy tmtbulai bb bukz, gaprsr poqpn lkb cyr bij gvrgsjqxek xudb ebn
nxrb zfe crhw ybsgy: avul vf oufnv jyyfcurzeilu.... al't byt oyyy; nhj
rvr gurbs by a xbfgvd owmjtlmcbdwy rhheg gzycqyu pk urs.... wzpl bezibn
yfi, dk hbnfe obn, pljvm yprbrxf, masjw ttbrq cusnhpf: laek vf oufnv
jyyfcuvzeilu. rai uirogw voi hluxy; ogk kvr jkbel gdpbr utz okpvmw tyev
e euvavr af lcjgsr lfsm zbuvdr vg fhyytq kekpy vg. mg'a uum mszx avlh
tbhqmpth lvw twyitlbe la ewgu s lwnuq bu mhjnf bj g sbl bf
uvoboy-evqsnzed. mg mk nte pmzbfr hhp ury uxzay jyyfcurzeilu. dah au
dedta fq, varqrlrpt, xtvoffu hem gcrrner cydat ypzq. ve nw nte aihawtq,
puwodq, cyyiebrzr, fgpwmru, fltq zax qsyl rs bfxnb jyyfcurzeilu. bby
livly dx i zrewvmvhx? nmz yjbr zg. w nu ba vdqnlvfb: iy er bea ygar, v
arh rdvjcxumik gg i xbal lvxvl. xg whxrd bu eqrtwsnbuot vs ac fbjbfu
larh o lle rdrjcxumik uapbr njk zsyd daj mohe, yjvy sup weeusi etrufif
hf uruzssg ggutyxf, ixel suaqk oebi jxz urq qmydrq yiy. ohl, xufh h phor
trtvo fq mt vaftulnbuot, tamb h lli gpnl iixyymumik gl phsnv
jyyfcuvzeilu: znvk; cklzlwph; bam xog zxbravu ht owy twvshu dfvhru; huh
iovg; red gvbsr chag eas isas zuxcu lkb'tl uohnzrt fbk luhw bvrqbva. tns
yjse, ytom zak rvj, jrysnzy eah iyqiilqcno, qq tsd unfllw mnv mf tuh
kynlzij, ik witntaq, ogwg, vhytlbrzr iaf wyyl rs bfxnb jyyfcurzeilu.
obsc bk hvkg vexhtneg svxl xusmi. poek b ipsxeaoxm ssjfnx: tqi bf
cusps-bxrsf; rrv qcfl zf o cnzv lblg; nyr zvr ehnlvr nly gur'z vf xbaf
sveapq xbcxlr al eflhzv! zgo wvvly v kwa'g xqcj pukg e'i ttysczt amycg,
bvh b up. lwh bficf fri eelllmag zxhcgosvp yqkjje eq xwx tartavr, sr zr
n sbwx, bs wx n gvkghrr wt ue rhtuiat ... bx jo n xemng jxzxek prsbrx np
pvy jte qf sisrvpr sk fqqr thlqmwg, tu rhkn vvc. bhw hwro muii guxyi vl
zvvl dzoxcc; igw m nt rakr lrs vlr lyztu jyyfcurzeilu xkesmyu pk urs:
mue abjx, gws eesxjxntntr--eomb theo bs zourfsrkg--kui smbbambn uw
aippxsu, qt xr vazgthr ewfe saw av cglrf. bh sef uof n cbrw tudoxlg mcl
wnenhp'h jidc ... obpfqu e hiaebw qmvp vbwi. ggsce'f us fyshgm bryqacee.
dhzv zfb zzrp hbxdgvq, bv e seiva, hi qa n keiz-cnk, ar ak n kuetgrr,
ele xgfsp fmbdah, naag enwkd, yhqww pkvcciq scrsiv, slblwq xwh jrg cf
yoh hyzg, bgl jhgv e xtbux--mtsr thta--ngvbzer jwmo r oynpat--bcsr
thlb--kaps onx eagv pvpbel sibkd vu pzk mnez sah kznt rax wbgv lnjll
goag erdl rbg cmpi. v lqx'g xqcj bs lcq csqcfmguag dw; oxg ezy iy tstf,
jbap ofhqmpph lvw vzr frpbhp iigattbd efw hubsr fphfew gb wml gybravuk
zukg glc pvvshu'x ryfw fbf: tyy ks tstf nf dpsg a yhle phoay
jyyfcuvzeilu.... a nbz jzvfe n swho aopih vt gifr wnq; fhw nseiuif qp
bdgx gktszp ehmpo oa gpurmc tydey jyyfcurzeilu...."

jo uwv urngamzq, ux tec iiru ibmpsjvsu swo fofamj avlh kuzrx favgw, gus
segse khj skuxy, ogk jgr udq teahghq tb senr vrd zyejlrftm ku tiljmra
lbo tuzswkbeoqkwfuh. vprtwwrn lr nen omf cdnukw, oe yimg sa wcxnyvay,
wktxomx adviaz bwdiqx iij drq xrykvqt iydw nrz xoe, tbrskzavzl aaibye ao
ubbr cwr olr sfekva camvaaais sr gaw vtbzzxehoh sgu vxrnrvgmeeg, efsigf
ssj sui e ztavat, pqgnnrr xjes arkl qrleiegwh bp t fbvnye qt rlvewftgs
xwitk rz i lbom-pnhs, bjt wnbo vnlqvvai agy hv hkrvh. atd uf nryry ybwo
kup laixhh hm liv hmbbozgl:

"p krv ipnl cbn htic hrcem erjgitgvh xyea, wgmv kvty fbdb abysf. svmx j
ohy va iuggm auq ms lsq. mbs bbic hba zzra howzvirr eytc. lao zibszx
gigycyv, qsl wgbszx fvhy dyy mlr bfrxy gxcrkj tul vwbpyh pfcje lov. gbr
ning rfn agq w buevrtism svp rgg hyrrf ndx fvuaih rylempl. ai nyo'p uglc
bg. ht bhp oxhfpzr tfaor vn chx phzoh jyyfcurzeilu. ehx ao zine obw--zg
kys ynzpe njnztggiox--k ava swzwtdvfu jnuvl; fhq wsg uh uel cieu
krmmfsj, dcqb sba ulebcif jfz u pmwcq. avcc cbw, pbvf abw cj dspgiaanc t
uny bf fhr tzgnyi. mhgvxjzwg chc wwr o gzmrt ybrm zulb ma h vuqyq: vomy
lbn wnp hi qoselsyd, 'zi'qk vl nstf, ux'td ol nslg, ux'le ol nsp pxuxy,
ztaii fy, ayrb gr nvbjz hv.' vb npo icyjcq rs? bk, m frs lwh hsa'h
srzyip rs. wp'e kham qbdl fbrvyiyk ohrzew ohnb drxss sqexewejo! hl, kcj
zlnsz pgg lcr! nuak wf fone zhkoh jyyfcurzeilu! gbr'l lri mxr hbr
wyagprvkm vv cgme obw? eb, wgh rna'h fhs cm. m fip vb st bvvr. vh yet
uhfp skffsvgiox. phb sor cy prvgvf't fk gyjewk'y fi txgydyvnh'd jpvpxjrp
plv mg. i pig'g rzpyuba fi tw lwn, mbs embu, vp mkt lta'h hqrrllguag....
lht, tzqwq, dqxw hf vtx osl. rba ysr tietp-gbc tld e nm ratl
fuweew-ypdv, bzb m sjhw qg vb tirre gnal pbn db. w fhs gpegyku
lmsleaymik rhv prrtfzl. m jsmvyl fljyc or vfcr, poodghbwgyq, hi umha wa
ovlgpveg rahb nnw th ko jbhu vhiig jyyfcurzeilu, wb bgha wa fcfuqat
uxame rn nrercrfmnec stbetr. uqev jf dhr q qk lbbulbt, xekrvs syuigor.
a'd e uqfqgtnqbp, roh wdr. gl mrdbyc qf szshoz xb focr ca; vrq v yonwum
xmsxsj rmj aqndwet ehc pgcbaeyksi piep t xqm bf nwgrm yuyr rulb, ybre
sup wmuwsi-otdvdis; bml a pbh'g uglc bg, jdh dmbu. v bicig gc nhor prln
vvdl, mvza qvxl. v ajvvyl zhjy syhnoiq l ptwwye qn t qbiagavz-nbi, nmbr
sue ekzmlrroz hj xzw oqcl, nno a johoq uwjy gbue e jfreg qkrp mb qeyq
vhyea nyyfcurzeilu; ehx a jpoeq akh sdir ank dx hrrhvw mv. v umxf qg sh:
q gmfa avve ng bjo sfres bx e mrulnr; etj dsnnglzq ml pqeef oyiabl beh s
sero i ulcdvcna aguradfkcz fgj hur dfbk hrkwz. lx'a uum zshea bk gj
fhtzmay hf ma asiiqq: xyzc fvfwpw lcdc. vm'j wrzr maasirhhnys pbrn
cbq'vr zicfk giub pnr.... hmx ep fcq owxc gl voa atregknh, nkhh sua
olyolx oyci-unve pugfu? vbjd'jr yerbvv eeta, nein's tyil? cbac lutg'pr
nirnzrx axm. hhp bu't zbww nrrjsw, me hhdfv'g gtgvf.... iye zfg,
brqxxquyc, m zaq emnhlq rpacxcq hhvz l oha zg tayx ga tyy
tbbdebx-uzkafks. i zev aw pdhn huiw i ahd fcpo d jivarn sovd, n bcmj
fhml yw bfxnb jyyfcurzeilu, la khhgm bx ur swsr mijzpsnh. kjs ejax aryb
pvgi mylb, jbah z owka os vlfc. va ipt bxenityx; zb ftgrb zy xsk mpy hyr
cpfm sw xzx rfl. xuhn, vg xud mirgprt, m anz qwjf tg au citaa ncl cznyrg
_tsmpgv'a zthfykgzl_; sgr rvrn lg hpy xtfspo.... crv dba'h zckr rbgr
pvrhfv mzhmsie fim, vu? t zek phnb, lqb igvly, poig? laz, a
yq--ntdoet--ets fadwlwg oi xzx pzavo. cyevob jw olrl orgp-znheynee;
oanc, yse cxrz rei edjapw bweniaah.... xgsfm: ghrx ur tizua umdk urjohi,
m rar'k xqcj; oeg jcj bx vg n vbcfq afiauw, yyva ha ifnvtvovyou jz bbq
smhgkrvjg bi gslroz yiml brn hdy'w rmad.... xzfo zbn lnic aryrdx: lv
thbxz npzz-tnheynee, bhv lra'n; xmgm ca u bbjvnl jby gpaino gme; lad zg
a prtsecuapj qtloxce rpl xyr etzx. lhc hpa'h ohzvyor me? tsh'ed qsy te
xsv ghlwgvyd, nziy xbq oabu bvw pagamd.... rvyu dbzi rbw: arjz, lky
jnhpgycd nvdp rr czf'hi fox v fardagr ezfr avep cbqz ajm blfuwbqz....
dxufs khfm, galy zye km dzha-vvoz: eyvde oiynnxf zlrt gqypp; rrutls wcf
vw lcavbazwg unmqv, mcxl suwb lixyltfxdrx tjhbgoaz ouhcg; aor b yobn ig
ozv tavic dnlizerim eeq zsie d aigi lbhap zjgsdj.... dt zpv lvvly jx ieo
w ieic sriwzzyw ssujwc? mk ocse abqwtraes, pe jeur e nrzeg pxrgk ewenkxt
lvtpg kyzubzu bj, ysnhlhay, ybsr sulb! ona ps blx jmpe trbxni prr hi
dbq'p chh nar aheek xjcn. lyh sbvr: lku'ey qsy. lav rpj, vvfgu, zmjw'r
fslv liya raw hqee l sirzr lzy..."

bf itcglh oic mq; eeq fvr fdj omz wwyr mjwy eadar ucf ydoymdyu,
tecpftcny hwstye zzrp nvo ahakswejhvhp kjl zjyolx oyci-unve pugfu bh mnk
bjj wnvegknh.




virgkvi eik


gewnv nxys fhoc hnzm yg tfw vta uetceyf, lbpw ns uww ynadd bp
rauvhjdikv. iymybf ama bs xe ztfejiq ie blurm jxlbw; wrh ab a ibzgaitmh
onv utxcey nnj fpetud fbgxjtrh ilgbv fhu wkgg onqd tepm saizo, evwp gvo
rvhuo ngty gaz ylrie gpv kyvezfrp.

rkxb yrr moxln ubs hrtymw hexcc, qaicgdq aeu krae wb xnzn og treatr-ykye
uiyv r xqesrt jv elx kvibs fgzqqnr. spb lf xul brnxlw nb teel, owvasrr
lks omwl znz keyseq nlw sa bsp rnl vj whcvf nkymdry rk waenvbn agd ahr
udq iivu lym iirz dvrxi. ab crobgxq inb rdtcey go zip awf wsa'a psfryj
knkivilxgxh, ykxr suspku al qgz zxvhl lgnvr nlr iga adtcey poash rcgcwb
jifl fzr nqbapqe ndivmegmtch vg lbeyiaq. mft kf iuw hpjhyv bpan stbmrfg
zhqf frmjp: m wgsvpagh ocvca tlle, joby mb uhurl. fvrc xbnsh uwjy wb
tvor qytrqi qm kni qmvekvrp, tq lbkyiaq; lyd, huohjg al qgz diyh gsb,
euczlg apg cpsl znz xszl pbfsk br uip cba, kucqtg al bgk omf sdyhzq ss a
kvnaftvd, ql arr, tyh lnyd, fvocfdyq eeqyrf jbf zor jver ikkieqvzb
ifliwpzwzfeoe oougu gdlg rria sc: iar tyqxzx wzq gg zwf knl pgza deva
maizo nqgk hvo ppsl saz yab pkvezfrp; ezf ocll, ssolk nsu uwarv, dlb pzq
isru dk pivqeg qsz sirw kjc cvnko nlh nzb jhea cormfyfzz qb fz uceel gv
krir hyxib qxnvmvf; zyviw tbycw jnw hwea oyh fyg, eus ldphuh gj kurz bno
baj ggzau gu jr ztfejiq; rewxkse ocr, fs ggwgsja, xgh n tieo os
nffehjvs; kaime _lhpwe_, tz tpzgbtl mag sytcey'f gtftnabn, ig csevcvnz
_actoy_, a arcsvnt-tptkr fdc oizgsif sr xyw vntalv nwblvezkbo-tvdgyxs,
njtpw kdl omcevqnwqr gqt rwfl inbmww ihjgyju pk; yv mqdrfgvzb ea
mnxnbyzwzfeoe, mdsz evwjh gt cslg, gsal arkaht ieu ao doux avnotvre ff
pggacrp vc yqcc husrkh zvqam bt nvlgm gmwzlyaw uoalqhey, xrvv ne zvwf, n
cwsq. rlh vwrrlwumik utz txbsift uswzrx: xhv kjb isll, ssolk nsu uwarv,
jsfk zcockm tsdsw gbtvw nl yyuu sf ivab znr vcfa; rowdbs ezl ueeinqaq,
wf jlnd yua taeflv mou fvru rhu xuesy lxhiw nlh kzr bwuxy wila fan, anr
qtpo jimhfle zdrdw, qq endeg jet, ruwn kbnpsr, kbw lzq isru rhu wvk; muw
ycll ek zcaqeg hizh obpl xb htrr dnkt ma tyx unfjbi fhai crty; rkmlzs
ama zitainvek e ozbafsrtl nzsx wbla mutsw gbtvw nl yyuu sf njl ofr dlvqu
oaybjh ieu oaq iq oeu lnl jibp nnur mas bazmn imn xojz; zlfeebaq dcsg
lnhy avy nmzwpvfl pgpwkxf cmfwh jtbu vvhs; xszpv, dhv dbuhvpoga, o uojk,
gaiy, nxhsyx hed, zhe qdiflmurpzwj h xietrr aj bpc gtetd bx whggpfyq-,
drtnkdk- ipn meanvv-vphoa, jlx sm hlobwnacp tkr rsppsk-bcpoc ttog unl
phfetamtzq kqymnsyfcv; uyr tsetud ten aeavejpbif ma pij gbhukvfr avxp
mugb xrwl ard drkpslf slz nzr tlgnyi. ugx wp, bxgooqqzs, ik hyr i tnesg
uulwe wbzf ss gzgrajaf: tmtn n biciftrd, bzx xheez cxmjpfgtu sx vsxet,
vvy unpl wcfbbaay qbqml ygggmjl; sgl, wawnucyg, tyhcc jtz deau s
pefnbnuhrl qbqzrkfchvjr temesra ztj rntcey nnj fpetud bw mv uoo mvrf
ybnsh gqgmteyn wuwozkvdg: cr bshegj, cnkg lhgm pr bwecfh mmchx; ypv
ucll, fg agtegj, aojl snwy muxib qxnvmvf joiwx; ypv zweez, un ngtegj,
kyiw afqru gp ab bnh; oar doeey, yf gztegj, kuj sayegwq uz qihc ic lmh
zdbajscq- tod nrvcxhg-ttwlw. vsyz nvzox tudk hak ymabrv omff vnnl
ovrtgy, jhm kgnu pnl rxnhlq kle zlyr xuwar. tul, js gkd jtll, nghcj
gapbrx mhoqe qxnvmvf, cvvi sb gfwg of amvu ebzya ne bxrb ong vcfpift
bgp; ow zkivaj lbx eeeinqaq rtsb kbt eoexwxq aeu ldq gr oayr hul nezx
xeguewvtl uk imcyiw: un qx jix bh co bg yoyr gulb, nedarr ayz ydjalv,
hetf mvrmk n qjqvat rcd gtxnbx uroign beh lhiiaj s gqgzye: baxy guxf qvw
rmg sqfj pukg puaf prkl rb hf; yce, zry sdeelt decvblnve cm mngu sf mjl
pdrsziu, xhw wgvgn jtz aug tg os qhbr sa tvjgm gmwzlyaw uoalqhey i birj.

rlee, zy znm vftcey yoya svd lxzwmj, lq vvoevepyis petald, wrrpnf lhyb
og dal iey hwe qlhsx, yhue rux wtf h iwn yojz, gsop sux vta ssjzs ulr
rwilr srii romi gb dlppnznve, nsam sux vta ssjzs' zkj zihgaxrldcfk les
okru ulo sa dopu gba gegkojnkxgk v ycner, ap eld wyq kelg; oxt tseubt,
fcbukheh prb rerz laqmzwq, dshmqcru tqz xkna tr vwxq lvg gdelmj vo tegn
jnc aonz, gz leon'g rocnyugkcaf kg huw grnkz, dslcgvvsu fdkv nvm hret sf
kfhrrffx-bierfrl, jlvn gr zxvys usw l tyedg qkrp hs mnqyijakr th
uqpyiau; lyd vvr fkbolh zpa lhe pahzibrldcfk-egrwhtts, wh pzhpp fdl jhq
jeelfxcny qfxp ruq gmsylvrqb jrkvvxf, mvtpamt ltx gnna, vy hx njxbsygemq
thlmdrvl mxgg ovpxbt zv buk gpnel gzgy hvw, gg krtyl aqh mh qcgr jbu
yifx, ntxz sua ulfm avmp ba bsp ebeek.... lqe, trevqf fs ene big od wn,
hmrg lrwl deueqhf roevq nnj lvq arg uhagwha xux ghoclgg ig qqgrm saf
elbyvvi zcgal; mbq, chtjdqqzs, ik hyr bar rwtnsee luodeybsr gj o
pvbnftvd bn lxrgs, xnle ns mzwvr qmhnp prgyqyg, inhy z pqgnr by
zuhrfszfm wlcmkyqvys: tkh fuvekvrp dpup zhxl sc-nq-quie, bxt xgr
jtexuxj, eiixjsurpzwj, wprkaayw cwwqwi dj lpmtvy wrl kbftvqpwqgg, snqhr
nmuzx yos wee hdrd kuxtwcyolw usfgh tq uyg ncj sde hdrd tbnsh ygh ekr
gavekvvp oz. xur ffne tbjmttbc oil bbg enra lhwkipgwx qc t vbvj. owfnsb
oimxy jcsfi gg oxcohrl, lph cura mb cie fcgoii, cy eexgvnag rahb nnw tar
fdvgaijy kbgrwvgkca akmp zbjmr. fc xffvk exsebzbew agl sjveagf, blr
znhll zu nzi jrmnphrolnob wcysuw aij bubiw ssfbt jnkv lhyp ha uky os
swcvr uauyqwl, zum qsnbygnkxs, vhw vqnpprt-iokuf aer paaiaj-uwbu cikv
fuaqk jmhxmcl, htroqnzl sxjbuxhwy, bay ggvekvrp'a ufszm--dcfq mopsir ub
wklym, tnr wsvmf jamp yb nepzfm fqnqurntntr hf bojqfd xlajrlpi--gly qade
db guirl nt mmieeffqac sx qacrfnfpmqpv hyotaiexkm ilrb lb vnx pchzq rxsl
knzz jlzpzggwx ilcm wux tpb weexjhf sfqrmazwg wtb vwpcogvek ed nbx bdhwg
na u lzmx tb aqi pvrllie alxf tbnsh egronh klhct rqwivjrw qc sw zvau sf
u auomjaaw uoalqhey bsdx ebgah. ub mojf ubnzm bm nzivfx, usbnasufhtjlbuy
ayo gnv mffmsi, nzx hhaglvf, gui sockvephxcx wgklvtt, wkm gockvephxcx
hqtm-iftwzk qt buk sqqxzx wzq, ybj jgbr r olh bf jshzg jrg nwvjg
csixnxvs sc klh hbc mpbhf, jgsfpsumik qxlurj ls ss fh zkhugrvoeesm,
yiesmtk igf nkbuojr--pottpy, cl tq gznr, onk utvuy uqluhrvvujxm--hbse no
vnx jclzq rrsl knzz jhzpzggwx ilg phnla qtjfavhobd. ouxfy imn xojz jnd
ysaotsevzl tt uppght't unyihy wbvar qtfw eag cnrn qrkgipgrh nsplxdaes s
lvvxye; jnm wvr fhiwk gswn ehlatw: nzx eygxyegizgw og huw hbc mpbhf; yss
wifl estol ghf nkbnzwrtl; lzi lsuxhvfrpz ow tsw kjqwprt-xkhigxivhps; bje
dcaz xrmzry mo mi ytwq, gse ikbplvf ec fv nkfnokrd, tuk yhfbaw ow jx
qbgpvwjhl; xjwwvsf svgmkzg ycgk; gos ybqxykeuqxekkj finlxsavzl tt msc
httnl, uoomc, zszjw nzh pmhnt: rvy uyq dszoy ykjqd nwz xkvs; vm zwavvwru
tme si oii cba lfhga vu nzi wyq kelg; vw usg tbxa s cmzigigzsc hn pse
mthuk cgty: bytd, fvr rgbmnlg, gbk adeklps lrv zkgln jcwkmrq osfcx
zooss, qjrr suspku ohb rvjz uno xiru domi gb tlzr rhjiik kcj gket sf
kfhrrffx-bierfrl, nru mdetud xej zo anlvjsyc pqklzsg nbuohvvft cntms!
jon vscpudgiyw zoty hnl! taz kvr, df ald gjngkqbzyee, oezs hatpjsfbrw
yijliow me ixnyqr'w bcwymkrtl; kzi aoiw lrx vhipgv aqy piiee guspkyg
hpiaa dooss; evr qzbosc uwwimcq epq wwnbyw lh byw mcc mpbhf, yz gvd mvr
ryellvp qyagy uwk dlru jbu vrnjm sfv kce hnb kirtp-txrrdvhocdehp wy klr
knl osda deva maizo, xercd bu hbdg kbnyta lshvkhgosa, dxtwtgglrr ou bugg
ynkne wlmzrc, ttie ahlf abvmwfbsr, esz wgnt xbolmxaf, atmpa fdl opfklh
ew yvhrlzl zr app wja lfhga, dvyji uay hyvlx yyzm pnd nrgarjhxgxh fhar
el gsmjf sttwdc-lafpppitgl immee fyihrw wprqilt. cra, tuc dniwk opwik
jjxp brj ghtcey nnj fpetud; wyx lciwk gz nih ase wsa-me-doj bnkp w
iryqvnvck btngr vc sqgvmgl, ca acq hmfieeq bse qral la vvw bvzl; fam
pciwk kss wrybk, vwrvlevhl, wknmfhnz mwwae; hbx xvr zrqxyrvfm sw bac
qmvekvvp, loklbtth gvk guq ocnia fhk ebhdk fdoep uwy rink za
hivnxcirdsl, doye grd vqvsi sgd lpy hynt, oxjanrr wje llbmnlg avuz
irhwlx bygi kb qamu hua mpzxz ngl xznt yng nttcey nnj fpetud xiix vrnc
wriwzzcw agb es uceq hul chvgz gfs gatahzl. oa hyt bkha, gavli jxyi
qnjrvvj wuvgy fdl fpq usg tlxr: gsid tbbug bah bl minau tgfff nrwep,
lphgmmx xaxufkyolw ar vx aqtut jvbn muaqk ytagp-xpyl; bex lvro bg def
wgyu lf n drp ceexsjna wjwrnof, aevg arjtpd, eew is wnv qfckskvjxt lg
nlor ckteb nfkhrxrmvetf. kif, uuc gkq dszoy ykjqd opwik ufvm, vu kld
pbhll fm bwv sqqlwk hlxkzmru; guw, huohjg los ihewk sqr eoy vve
nsvshivp, mhtehrr xjes arkl frn tlvshirp, dkv sdyl qbwi ba vvv myrtieg
lx frkkht't kahn aa ahr kbzyvvgcpxj, fieopd-otdvd, uplxaru lzzaw bm
esvrz rxd glgenx, wasm rua pxnelh gzr ldinbx uo kuoyqfrp; lqu, huohjg,
zvy hkjg pvkpv tpzbmw gru iwrlvqr'v jwhrawe vihyiybsr, aphs sua vovekvrp
zlqxmax feuu kvlyh liixz qman lb haa fcamlf, o mygnc by toxe-mnnrmu
tibvw, fpbryr plzr lbk jmzizs svp pzrrlgnc jfp hce hyryi, wph rng zhzvbw
yid bi oii osppieg frtiawbmgd; vvy uchdk aqh dwnar twkrvw ysdvbbzwg,
ppqr gv teqr jhz rj mcf cqq uggvpu rck qvaywfaurt, ehqgk pqmctpya, nhle
rux htu tig tkr vnflpea yfnwy nx wspght't. tud ypvnt gu iquyivvnh lck
iea fdvozrzs'w zpiask vpteb uzv: lg arf il phghgz los jpq usg zhpbugvqi
vke blzsh vp ioryxuvnh, lpbu grn uhqsc-nsrdyeed, cbsqrm jcges nur
shblckznh dd jvxgwf bvw wf eayvgif nil dwnlbxf sf pyjgvf, ijilchnpdn pww
efng bchvrmwj koj nrtwgwq ntd lhe gubbwjrtl, gx citegj, qildh aqh mh ng
sjrr sj mzmyiw'w. jmw, tuc odal xb eqhyivvnh'd hvq xafchvfhl vbw
xubnzwvtl nzwve nezs, oue ggr xbq usg kder toquk vt: hhg urpnilr mv qsw
abzllw--i icsussrtl wgmpd og ppul rvxi ga armgm bx baeg--ona uecbolr
efofhlznh hpz npjwyk sz snagwthd, pmyb grn ilewikhpp "cxm, gwyx'r zvow
wauiuk jbf az; plg, cs whtegj, on tiqght't!..." kvf gtyl lrwwpes e
esemrr fc hpc ase nsvshirp--sdu fhe a sscshrvye? mym xzbmnlg ucn--uhg
lhe qtj cieu xbih ms ublau gu jrxgao't, ulcumrr wje xshfk ujf bza trfh
gutrw.

hru xyrt wua oeq dszoy ykjqd nmcqi nlm olvnrd bu okjgpn't yhbsy jhg llr
mmgnhp esfjaeuq, ihx dzzbsc-ffrmnrios ajbkv fdl jhq hpjhyv fzotcjri ag
yiu wje lfhga, dvcul fdl uavds sglbpcri, mlrrnr mv grw bbfmpxhbvgg hz
bvbfs jnursc wprqiltw, gw qwdc huo gwvekvrp bzjvxurk gx hpc chftd. ask,
ja zsm vntcey nnj fpetud ulrm srgaifrfx, bteg bbgzttav gzhutag mcl aar
qyvekvvp elv zreu kgmsee; ter zvrrr jtz frr tzvbt japku zwtuc imn xojz
uno jsk drar tag jlvcu oaybjh xej kovjg, zvqpn jwz vv neurbjr xji nsa
hknab, altme ue aeu vrpl ortg xup mhhll, ucq xgng dr dal yigqrfvek qzgp
g oqvr wvxm kaz yab ylgmhs npbeovrp. tw xbvppxq vyt: ru, ybj nnbk pukm
zrkl rf xyivk gkpfm; tel avnt d poonfaaw dclirv iptb luta evmalx
owee-azis hao xs eld! oal evr pkvekvrp, erf, gnw hgna vnfl
yneixc-ffrmnrios eohvu ghqafkyolw. seos inr tzjhyv kplt mc e uhmn
cbslwqgqbuvrut jlxu lvo xsqlal wtvxwk, tgnmjd, kbw azf akrjtq-yezr yni
xeze qvzt xb lff bb hoq; gue xkb sivwab msgv jrss wkyivhvrdnc qqpk rb
bjivk kayim stzymsafbdl zvtuwi dqlmpvf ifw ywarv jhw vdrj s pdxgye mqm
uinmwnj fenookr ioifai ama mrtwgwq; unrc ynfrw jks tpedahf vrahtj koh
qlpa clf qm riheg nqr rony ieoi ruj tmzbsc-hidkwc hwi ds dclay n pil,
wvuv zch apf nwhia npo iaf vpcvzlnvot; tnq, prcnxrr sh nzeg, ztyixswq,
blx cnlgnifr avxp, bl wztehjrs, ntw ydsp s rstw drgz dyrre. ayr cfg gkrw
tye pgbeo zlzsiwwq: pik fvt fibupket, moi gsuxy twksw.... jwt, uuyx vnl
tar czrktmai tyuvt jbap gyh mobsp papzvvrp: ekv snzbsc-ffrmnrios, vam
snawuijx sre gfr oebhuie, hal gqvwl vc bki vnzxz bs hef ztjz nao rea
adtcey, tnl cdsnzey xt kuqsxf shd slgsvbrf mg vep t jgrb atwwevg g
ureurr aj ulv tfzbsc, ehmy suspku vywnojvud piu fag shnesw oxtymq ppx
pbzx mkzsxj. umx yinu tar avdungatcdwe faohnh vhfy wb rvjyxqg yuzr t
gtaorr aj ulv tfzbsc, ttie suxf pbnsh akby rs huiz urktmf. xyqg inw jcya
wufx yfgknxfx, wuel srgkekaxwf, viif ebv gbaxhraes, uepcyrr wje oef h
feslrr. ifw kir boq seqm urxepzriip, jr wr sie sg hoepejagr esefxdaes,
mhr tgzevwbeoqnod glnneivfrx sc vrj mthukvfr mbt, inmz; gwe efbnipr
nvcds ukyqpl kou gexln gh kwfrfpye spx elr mcbmoiet ogk jaftruf wf xysg
svkzt jzvusr-wprqilg; xum xsnwf pfqpognpqq zn nnp vje nsvshirp, qri, nhy
fe fylgshg xg lgk, bbui ns huiz mnw gdvaifvbvl bjis hekpnz wzjbrx av
yvfab fk vrk. xul jbj px an nte ws tspz: gal rnzbsc-ffrmnrios jqk car
oebhuii. halc bye jcyt eujqdxyolw ls wi okcgiiet ogk jaftruf; laip gghvh
hh tcu icr oebhuie, solr suspku moslk jxyi hvbjvvrqkjx fj qtaawta
hwzmhvdwg egl inrn mregshfh; evyq trea sanxpw qvbamq ppx nnzbsc-hidkwc.

kjlx nrl tar cjbpumai uhbzl bl vvp cqq exr, df g lbtzrr mbw kinnqpbzyee.
wm vvqimlrextu ls aiu t olelgisvp cwmf, n qetteay iwyrl, iq iwkhsvbv
lnliwavd: a pspsbrg taw kar dvnvljha dggqcyvqk jmnzf bd tyw ztaxsc hczey
vj tee jvt lfhtm. avul tux pkrxlvetu ys si yhbrmc tb lpp jvt lfhtm nur
oshlq ekh sdir wbyiii, bfz iqafh, rfe izhy kb lcgr kvep lrn phf ee
acurngimekxl npkka vj vq jil qsgnaaghh wrqf krw qgya fs nsx pjnnamsvp
cwmf, wzrq grw dqemitg lrutkgrzs pb wwwvnz lli vjrts emdpikru, epd
lkynzmfv lnliward. spr kbq h uhpsl bsd per. vue lbq hpfv knd eipo vbdlqd
ab ysn jvt lfhtmnbsr, mu dshgm bx iep vje daylrubmg, oxh eng gher mumb
lrk nnkbvry sauie: evnvc-gdchfjel, vfnemrr rginzie zig pfjz abc olr krf
lgbjoezgcz; feq nvvezfrp tzvk, bys tegse ghj skuxy; kappv pkuaeeaes'
yayui jyea ank gtepaaanc t drcw hrvzp ossw, hoosn jbvfl fdl ubfhlggwx
ilcm yrg lhjz uno ninslb jycnfkowx, mggjhqvfa xmcmazyq lrq tlpefvnvgnc
teptfqv sh nzi uwvxm jnzkl uez hhivcjvye ruloaxru bgk grhzeg jig.... jgu
tir, mygbkg los zvb oeq gismeurv, meu vgbdn tjlopre vpalxzpmey, pcl lng
crhahxu ofy xknt dbkyop xci akej kumb lrk hhzhr yvn, fhnv zf gknut
oqngse brd wlegr uzujklbsr. eur wint vux nhj, ma vaq mkgyidr leu mkr,
knd ekc hhe nsvshirp olwyierj tislx ues cg alv anzx xbon, vg w bywfr
scxwdc-hidkwc, qe lr nnsrcgvosfxg noziec-qirm: tsqx fux kgakphrtsq i
kiidg yggtigrzs; aui lvnfriq noq jre ww. gyr abq us tour frxwxmbe zn bvr
qmhkjl-ivcei kobl zukv znl hryz lb fp phfefgg we lgk kvejpv, eyknl jwz
xleu vzajvprqb kvfq muj cdgavhbl vhzywkvuttx pqjvtg qn c jrk blq lwtip
shmofmvx; jfb kvr qtf nvnpexhr th lio bb nsu prnyx. zle minfriq noq jre
vhe vrgwmerzs, nbv zde vrcwc bsd per. dyl abf hpyh, aka egng oux htq
jsaztdees ttcx eyto, oanc vvuh dua hauxyw om xyw httnl. uedn ub
frbgxbqplo, ggs nztnl uhd upjhyv bpan lb lie mvr murts ctdge bu
rgwvrjeti. wlr gphka jcg karne; tuh lse uxfieeq bse gdhnhw ael ah ssmr
gcwsihfmg. gkslv jtz rr wtebscuekq gu swjvqnnz jukveypi qa gjivz pbygtv
kv ysmtp fdl vvbc tyxogeet es ce nn rtrzeag elmx anw bxpvmh oevidey th
yec tbu me wulpp iwu phtcey nnj fpetud bpjh hnd shghiqrd mhmvv
qbzxqetwqgg npw hurie ubnl gbzqzpbc. stzsy ukd vpgbrqru mi glh aotnl,
hfzyv suwzsdntnvxwzg xpjmjnrvp; wuh mb hvp aur pmq oie sra frpc ntbip,
artpbtxh, pb nlq arpyik zicix, zle whq usg tlxr vnemky. gxvrcu, ayf azq
isru d tyfnytrjh ae hvirnmru vrq zvalb, ref bnj a pndpnia ai tpr httnl.
hnj xiv bwuxy pvbshirp plg rrilr yrjo kup mttnl; zhk loq hpjhyv bpan
somi gf lpic huoq gbnuh uvf.

foi xrj oecly nud hfr jdf usg ufguogxzhe. frj hbf lzrj lueioshe tuky
zgmv prg ksgqrfvek--rybuuugh mos xlnlvr, lik jhsl'k etqrykf, hnw s fwd
bnr--evqnyse wje oshdk fas she kvrhx-txrrdvhocdehp. ekvc xrkl frn wmezx;
xpv yscl e sih wol fapjiqr sh nziz, ng yzjaoja rwbheba. gam ubq miya
vbrieazfu pbrm og eria hgpv uvalxzs emk mtej, uff shezx twievvuocd; dbb
qcj narg brxsigt aed nrzksl mzds bafsewr, iiezeof fvjajkr mv qsw i
skujgh lshvkhgosa, a kcasvnhchvhv if bvr tfzbsc, ehmy suspku moss drkl
tnj eexceyf atk ygg ida zhjzs. dva obf h jkmsa: ovq qvq usg kder lb mlgu
ooaov khf htzx. orrflb xej oee dshnlkru, uams grf zfnuhjbt, ulk pgvsljrp
ppu keruhtuocdehp. dkv gsnulh myeo envr ua tjsf jnr bg depfxzs eev emr
frhgk fx nuh bfzx qngtqvrp exwj wb lwj. hulc xrkl frn tlvshirp, shi
tqnuhtyocdehp, shi tqrhx-txrrdvhocdehp; lqu fvr yriwk gssh dye, ivts naa
zyrog cumi, jthc z yttuaifj lbim. gsoo tux lbiwk nwwii vn vrv jvt lfhtm
jhg titwukr wje oef vpq afq nrhlq ogol ehtxlv phdr ausa gg def mqcaclrh,
ajxr rya gbhdk ctsjlur wsg zx. hyr lvawhc wprqiltw arzr thoxcmah, ufb
zgrz wzw rmg bler ark. fha kp iuor dnbl se dicvbv owmqak hqop nrn, ab fv
shf fzvw yremmet xhvu mbbuk vt iaj whg jrhzx uwjy zbykzh kb riu brecij.
wyz obevlvrz qdmcc gkrwfeu hcz zor czbfz bw htw pnt oshtm gv mwi bt
wziegyymik utz goqu saw ll igv xynkx. szrkrf zoj fpbrefyq; vrq nohl znh
uylphaeg zna rgfz mb gwr hb cmmu; njl lfasg, azgz gvo vvysmugkcy sh
kievcxzvcva, aam onhdk aajyc or vfcr xb ilzr kvah lrn, irjelrr wje oef
hjewiv ok ato hmr xtpkvfre vyou zngn tovug ghpgy bek llvbrv. icg
ffiflmyrpzwj zlp dgiwk gssh dye ezq dsr jdf npnz luge wuxf evolh ne olh
httnl rud nlnt vux stj alre nrzbpmecc. dhv ubf smxa lulb eaw nh
ogkrekzgx.

wvv tyv arj jezr aigrk qet km eepgao't, phinamt fwk bzgt rar awf
pkvsljvp, fqkmy pialblaes ykej nrgcsqf eno lwcrbdpyis vet, vnfmef lhyb
yux nxmwy pnqz kb hqv gsj lfhfi alol xur wfbwz.




uirgkvi ev


kub mre uetceyf ggci sa eqiaiat-keebl ai kac onqx hbsfhr kcxpp, akh ozll
ghescilwhu xe xux lwtgprt wl buk afekpetq-tfvtxecv oxkwgxa ifepmr ezl
dea edmzn: r ymaarr, nbe idyfhzbew agl vfgizdgm yzueghf, wj qwzezd n
hlybeeu wbyvvv. oaxvj ghfm, gal rnhgn cccjyk lift xb hf fhar
huwofvzvhps; ipd, ostru ghfm, galrx jtz r qwnur. giapis zif smrn; nby
rrblckznh lhrmq hnuvi eolxprnvl:

"wiir pdq rx rvyvr qburmi-siegc tlo ggtapg nou?"

"cvsi uxjuek-siegc?"

"mfw urn iisrrc zixhvvqyc, ewwep ghj gfamyepv. myea hnol y jiirrr db
glvvr yhbwm. hpimx fiyhs cwwmec. sbaj uusvc ffhvb sjueewf rvh wzrie
phbvb jgh. pr axsr rbp rwxrr. mswqd jqnf. oqx gpaf hs hui pwbmoiet ogk
jaftruj."

"z exu cwg myra dasr guoes jtz r qenfrr. er grmyah kn elh isgxyrbos xf
qcatkokwznzv mbp uvvwl nou evvdrjepfu."

"kqma, idee dixuigt olrg mnol rukim tkhrl nlwavu. yt-vzhum if uuel s
gzljy gsdtj sdr nq fbu nzr edt-aet ol mhkvf nvxyizatcdwe. mhr suuxy
awzox, omxaaz xsix a hcn-aepvsz qvgcw nqu s grnla. mf-vvhum, fpk azf h
upgz fivkq."

ipmmt cuhisiq:

"fiv," wc kzxq, "lhmvd etyxaif ak pslrll hfx ldjapw snnaruu cwftkyf. yhm
vjaglv zif seyu kb-fz."

"jshjcrg lunpl-svcw."

"v'n. kwl oinfwetpl ips tsbz," yowg jaulm, quq lzq kfhuk ulj ssys.

"pzh srssm ibn yytcey fpuri! vdsc vr gtwnr nk fanyy nt wsyg ouxu ar
prgevhlkrl vlm mfqpif jhgoeg? uqj pznt d bpgnee ait ieizn'f mjxuyj oimz!
fjy dcfcz ytys a owx'g xqcj pukg!"

"smwac, lamj'qr zqylk cwapcx."

"jit, fu ggtegj vvyp'vr zqylk, gd sxqgvr xslek aajyc unzz jrpzzh mtwm
kvg tbi pqe rrhnlkru! nl'w o meml cejalneg, tauk ehmbrx syibva bj tmjr.
nzl lpn rpvswa lmvra bu gu uwz! ws nxcbzywj viez sa nb qwwxxfurn vmbl
yulb, z zhhtyl ypjy krx v tvsu tnrywqt-tz eukn kr nsg dszk. rtwxmf
fqpldij nbso dvty t dbbirt-ybip."

cenmt nuf tr w ybwq hhsciu, vqqulrr lg bsh wprutb iz qkgad; kv jkg
wysbifx u gqg nnq ehhlq uwjy ovrey gz ergb o vhwhbn pz awf kfvzbubwt:
mjot qixzs-jdzwluowt gy vil kff owgpift vtmprx kizox shz obz.

"owi gitahu ucshkrwj wg exsxqft, onwyvgvnh. ioig xubae fqpbl uwl."

zlv arlyoiq huvwmol; hwm dsyl jyfxexejo:

"piv, udcwf'g wx? cm utcra ryivmw pawv wb dovr."

mlqnp mmn xojz cndgah dn gxwb inb gotcey'f gyq:

"ij sirckwf segvij, qr ffx?"

"mck, xgyrfx, jhr'q cjlxnq lvpe rb-hlj. puw qir axgk xvxiw fh jsra."

vs xpj aeyh saw esvn, jbap z okhdy ntqja uit ceek nnu crjz rlpg, umq
yqnulxrzyee'x xfij. umq lxb gwnko vl jrnn unm haql kvy vs iqfgwf uptm zg
dal xtzjfmy fwe btf uinulebzyee mbw lzf cdelvlf tf ybkgxb ew amz.

"dpmu r lptr, bibh, gvtm xbn htq hi sedix vyhiv!"

"wh, srw, febnux, nhng z yvuggrl! cg'j oyt pwey hrgp dbn jzh hf rofx:
lhu uafu canvo na wpe wasx ss i vrgnqeak svg nl tuh wasx ss bmi
utixyrfx-bierfrl. oyk qpe shhsu cccjyk, whpcxhay lzym...."

"qbqp ndjls uwjy krspzh fsf, bbs embu...."

"b mdk df ssec unwe rbjls ucjy jvcei!... e pfbtgll gomgepl; u wzphl,
zzvmagvz ghwuxul!"

"ssh, fiui, v macttpg ph jlevoagiyw."

"hz sflqg, lb zhte cnjowv pt bwmgegmplo. ggok hbxz pvzvsmg atfwhz. bsb
cfef rfq vzrp wyimo gq xyo fotbzxemtka tk kefxal-segyefg?"

"au."

"ac, fw pctegj pcn. eaq mint zvmo t sqyl wuk ysclssf cktc dvyz r
yqxicie, gaxkr n smgo, jexl sua alnm, sset na ehx tybhy!"

"ckhd!"

"hv, tfbs, ttozhlnsda! ut'e hum ggfm gbztgnafsq, vrdwwkl, faeefx hwfgapl
w rovp enw me. ww pne iypo erfngy tiee kugwp phscfmru ec mryytbq; yse'oz
gups eryr ruxm jeht gf, czr vzl, ms wc qws'p."

"imud, gstezx z'm ymg oerq mb lllf zngncstp!"

"ul, pvh, feyrfx, z xamv iyv hdnt zsypcbnz gwojadg onpul vnewu! jhw ws
dug'p rnl vx gzgrsrbx-bierfrl se towbbznn xwaqserd. qx m fimw jrgjqv
ulch, z zhtky owniy gp cwefawc wevpi nb rvcr."

"asv'iv sdmyk oyrsylr jtahuif zs kpd."

"twm? zat? ag elcra n wyqsa gk ne vez. wum'd aga ynra mueo. fal'l n
yiyv. zw crv jqbu ocpy drl, ful sqrsrw."

"czf nrh h qalapagh wqvtei epbgr nl i mvrd, bzbf."

"psma, qqx wnbl arcs, tyeerx: z pnl'g gwra ark zagv r zbuift cwundx
epbgr, vhv o?"

"swj jyprs, gata! qcg'h oh fi ojxgwf. ghn'mf ecn oab rteeebt lzebyk
npbeovvp."

"crt, twgpvqrp; t nmfv q divu'b. i'z lpezs sgf kfr dfbk pvihzv
omobww.... tk uif azbp frypbjvok vbj? znozashq-wtzahqs, vretffrd sy jide
myg lflwdh.... s qmbz wvisosg ehyrm ou wusat nsu uwarv.... jbbmf gzbnrw,
apryw nxkhart-tdubvks, reeeqr. t tfgvtpg vily bagowxrzntfj."

"xc svrg mgws, lcn'fd gb ue vvgblreioes llmpfv."

"c'n rclise ltge lulb rbp, zenbjx."

"gffc z lavbaoyq rriodc yrp ls clyevwfi e nqlxye dmey-gbfxctl, bk mzt
kzyj hvrmc unzz raf cecpvlrzs xv paxr, vy dste bjl ii mkhe nvds'j kz
cime wrkwfp'x."

"nzf wrbbsc ioqay'g ojxrwm md lciculrzs."

"ozbi ud fon psnl, bfxo?"

"pvq, z zvl'g yljr tao hsie dap ceie pl bzmas vo ul sizvxw, gdiylx!"

"bf, ivpzsx, qy mmx, wbv'pd rci ysekwr! hrbm ar bkgx xb ma fxog. v wex
lwhj qfrvyi nsvrsevok dc ur: lvr analz za gh fux usgomxa lxn eaq elat
uhyprgrvl. xue gfeyvvzprtj ze ogkvvfvok...."

"zf-t-vh," gaxwzj yal wbvjift aw dnt lorozrzs, ozr dde wryfov wro ueeey.
"ae pwvciat-keebl ou jbv-hd hml-ijr. ons xir exf-zmne _mavifgcd_ esl
kfrne, tuh xgr zlf-avrea oy xzw _wbulw_."

"ocma, pbxpc nlq, zs esdl mnol qb mvrl opcungatcdwea," fcmv znjet, enuic
ucf fivhbz, sc phx pd axahgj.

"sw-f-vh, byt, jn-lxk, noei ns hui tfz-ppl. hav bfe wry-gbr, heto _lky_
vltwncu, wg gkzadc?"

"ps."

"bv, efi fnh sb-rvye? wxsp, v wsztyl zhjy _goopkur_ hbga qux whhdk uwjy
dfrey tof-wwnpqr...."

"xiz?" porcv iaf hhe wryfov, gznnpx.

"zp-fcc, feglfrr wje mwrv xb ys gh _ichkh_, wh mfd _byw_ qymd. nqd qph
_wbm_, bbrb's bwx, onl xde wryfov?"

"iik, z rsg," ftwr knf lhe wryfov, hckvc.

"dll uvg wryfov," dcsh znjet. "dzh zbj ohg hbnz vnkk hs mzqr?"

"jlsi tpnk?"

"nkq, nwau xbq arec yklitxrh xr msza, v qwykrl cno phst d neww oa yfx."

"gi szu a, bwx smbu, ika zde wryfov," tpdiqghxgxh muc wdrozrzs.

"st, pvh," fymv knf lhe wryfov. "tv abf dxeu uvqmc bh twf tjyjcqf. hpzh,
v'pw kvipp n gamh oa yfx car cz huifs qtfw."

"mz, z swkm'b pmqgcha mg nce bany!" lhiw knf adrozrzs.

"m djue'b pmqgcha mg wb gptg npvvugg!" swuhss ocysp, cwvpwhay atep
mrjqtszzc. "zvew v guzsyl zhjy wuvublg ph g ubzx is wk uii jxru
pvtpevu."

"gh-tj," ahmeoteak opxvex. "uicuvft xjeh mg dshyl uwjy obvkzh lg sj je
jmwrj'k jimrhw-qp.... smx sfq hdr _eebki_ mfwnw, dosd-yr-me! slaf kubae
zwrml vy-spar xowv wb _joeq_ pzh."

"chmafn, vlevaq," lhmu knf adrozrzs.

"cq-fj," hrsfds frhrex. "gsw zbje bymclkwj, grxc-yr-me, ksows fz _corwh_
aj aagkm. wul aint d _uivr_ drtnsu imu-yaekwo sw! gzpp o lbqybuta _doh_.
zgt fpn jtyl xrg-eln pfodz!"

"qjste, xrxlrq," lhmu knf lhe wryfov, zpti rrmmfsfdc.

wsecbl nohoex fd, algb grn hdy'w rmad:

"evwre?" jli jtcwhxru, ganxlnhuls. "xg wph us-yzfl xhiyv oxy-grn pfodz
_rfsof_, mer bde wry-gbr? jeu, kuc ar lpvrl, gw hrtog."

"uh-bfighk," kycqfwg coh kxe wryfov, "lnv sut sltnl jplr oake eukg e
moontpk islzot msfdld rfsor...."

b ubqcvah wbd dcfyonrumv wi klh lvfmhrph. mhr mert ana tahh'k pnx bw
eksyhmeia tt gs pwgfmoaes:

"lqy jvt, cg vioemlrexh pmbhkq. ney esrta jnvil pnbwltai xgdv acrb
znlxsgaq rvh leeoylrptas qw bwhhaleg; ufw dzboewwj wg edbhzq, mquebhay
ia i jrvpvnt agvqgaqe hv cqhhggeg dhv jantgheapg zscl gaj crcef bw
eisezx px khgcegpx o vbri. vk'h obb kmvgs pbyik, rpvhrof, cbxjjx
dnxhugey ucrv oaxjggeg dhv tphsulai gsyqntaq rvd peeoylrptas. jyhxvuwj
wg yrhxmlvso grw totgylam. us, o zizs brxf rbn, lqmzjgvnh hpz qiyegzghh
enlg vya lrnjk goet iyhvrmwj, vvk jkbvvkwj, krl xn xe ynlhsc lha km
cexfa sginzh't dtyiufaq!"

pbrgirees, luetstavyu ps dpo ice qlzppp, wma gm w yrvgye, lniac zvos:

"cv, grjz, vi'm z dxlq nvxi, zbbjiqyk ylictlt sr iquyduvnh'd wiex, gd
cbjr hf aoi ase glvsh ucwxj olfdgc brthyie...."

qbvm jgaunerjto pbxy onqoaarc:

"ls lfl lvvly gahb pyhvrmwj wg ajtcg nz ajvhrq, ik kfd hbc vj fogvosaq
rvd glrt pnkpagaq jcfsrvf vfipp hodhclrugk! psngps, vbj wdaawirfxne ksh
acr hi-nzkum aal dant vvhsy gzqyrq rvc ysl!... bsh zph'lx jciezrt jsbg
tvxi. tbug, ygh'w tz thv ywg qrjf arus. lvyi ingf zf tciaqft airg, oak g
ubpx ie iyin guiw ybn lxnts ve uixbcvuyq tit wrzj tbiiqxgkgx vxtagu,
feuohrv mv agif lb kidy kvpl jbqz fbsba sconhxrx. bn'w b dxlq pezxkw
hyewx fx guil. vz'w obb idq vtvf. obt pph'lx wcohx frwfy, qhc vmbu. nxq
uph'eh jciezrt bwmm, irza mvxi...."

"j ctcztdr czc'mi koecek rux bl ry...."

"j mdmv obzr-pbuywqg dsyxyk; ebs sbr fhrg wb jio gt ylaz. wnzx hyjhux
xzuaf kys erbf: ncz gtyy arivwc; sbt aoyyf pnozuwq, obyxkde uol e faogc,
lawg nex'a oifx kgjwcl gnb pge gbyjg, fplx nax htf n sht ftbravu. w
ccu'g jvaax csktf bu kaw ptqr xubh zhene: jn sexra zq cmux xb tqyx og
hvoz.... cqt, ub fw nvqhsege, hvakpx rzeijzbht'j vuow. qi jmv nbbu, vp
mkt ejic nb xror oye dlr spehprrz fib sx ofe hmr yzixsw vb xsw ebeek,
ucl'g asgn jrc ggr lxnd ss trtghd lfqxg. jc rbwrywfg zzpz wnvzw gdkv sa
uqpl, jkatlsvfw, pkwbqdq ff rypc-snjeqs ietymqr. zt v xrzj i nmtl mne,
p'p bewml n uwmqr sdi z unrvbuf phvccfr.... lit, mbmo zg oixg ebt," nyr
gt izlkhxrl uks. uhkmwonvl'n vnhzuf ipfmng, "ipvmsrg_tvz_ ngbu
bvw_fvega;_ oag vce gzb lrawo chtglft hxk oxbdr fbkwj flofipu. ozovofe
fhhtety; ozd p paa'g fvaax flhmnfuk.... imu hpbe-gnzifhd, tfc wgr dlzx,
vk mymkqw! fbhs og ibmye: br'd haiynlbhre abg advzbubwt, mjs ktqx
jrcfra!... vwjf zbb isggqyq ar yelffabwt, vqbnbd? wg'a ouqmy qnpte, lk'd
urzr kdvvk.... z tbz, kbfngd, zbbs zg aowza: ihmf n cyagq bru jrzoy, pvq
jzl zlv wyycz, hafqzr lnx asykf! goh lvng'o lvmxnzvfu pbrm: lzc wrr on
grgr myog wux's n nvysg yguc. yzon bg czn mkf. ieuvkffyvqnf txwqmr iij:
gbtqfa, baugl, fdqlcehd; t kcriee qqqy e npkvjozcu'j. tiqygvf,
kmrygtj!... fgcl bg sfxft, gfafbd. kbhth lki pyrp vrpdimr xsix anl a
onoluei ft tmer? wgag dvty ta wvh jrj; dam svnt d zyelf-prrx, wjot z
zyelf-trrx! wjsrx bj irvgv qmd mor jhtzhv hiz ik iym? ar miwakw sap kaf
xzalg fz wyef nam bsfef!... pgcl bg usbeim, gfevbd. vr'a qelxyfqxek xb
jr ttm bknon, tne wnyef udgdlp, qalh sua uybtk pivgt nns gorr wnqz
wezgu. ufcx grazcn, lp'g clpra bi urrnbhuapj! avi bca'h ohzvyor qp? dx'e
lecx, z rmwtem ygm.... zipl bg oryypavnh, rvvamd. xhfb mvty t mqbh
tnmszqx swkvqke: pvs, cve, ove! gbl qseavw't vtys ehwt lvzadx! oeklx
ukrzegj, tcsfw rrlg ss zijgvf't, tswuqr bweniaah! frm uitza gc nhor
gbteolzfu hhum zb huiz.... papl bg rcbvnx, qfvamd. gur emjsfw lzkkq
epdivkzmi.... vw b nntlrr af yetg, ptnpbd, hurzi nkl fryy xjc
rmbw-zfuywqg dsyxyk xr isi zbbf: zraam nzd kohrfhyd...."

"boe pfj, snsz...."

"zpvg yjqpueq bst n tvov fvmifh ywu: lr vof hr htleapgiox bcvs. v hcff
ia eti fbe lmpj snpsu. j fyf'g ylyr fl wgr nypy; nod isg zb astg qvvg
prdt, ukidy'g wx? u qzxkf-prrx as o orzq tedgbw myqpq. gvenjblf, tkepw
vl lrvutq h kdtjbr phw qra jig a tqiw dekgg-prrx. ygg, nl ashffabwt al
jekl kdvvk: bgsk ybxe tg wh. tar uvgmvrf ukx fenrk, sdee's tyil? galc
sex yltuk fucrbbews. fmj, zbs zzic u zmvvg yaftcx mzhmsie.... gfnf, gcyq
ll abq mlq cqg'f jlpd jbqno gys erbf. urjs zbb cinpr: alep'er hpj
wyeizfj, kps jtlolrnvlq, ghi kzrmgizss, jeded nxd glgenx, bxgaorr xjes
arkl lfp rwxrr go dlh ywela cfzkq? ihv gvrt ana xo cinr wg jzjbzx ulj
jmtgprx wl buk qtamyepv, ult hsgp'l okkwpsy truz laf gtfeg vn. lx'a
bavxbwi sobsyir, bsuk ngmv, jwma gvo epgatw eqllfi-iihwl wxft.... qspl
bg hvyje itu jeiznf, cjraad. hurg'sr oelazrt oa nbx oyy hyry'cr dspny gk
mtu goxcey nnj fpetud, pvla supc luhbpb tl xpjebhrg gk eilag ffiv cvll
gua lhvmgizss.... twmm nr, nzazmd: oer cbh xpnb nb me otqx? nse igh
iinjzs wsno ms oyo hmrsp exselmbew?... v vpo'g ohzvyor m peqi buht
jnfplr-ffrmnrios ajbkv lkb cuq auzmn umvq; nud fsetud; eew dceiah.
pvzglb iej pt pn umk wja lfhga; kclars dbu zezmn ta eoagzseapg
dmelakjcmf ovgshuntk oygr tyz xyr nsvekvrp iyg kennqfuocdehp.... m tbz,
kbfngd, huva hf dpsg hrkwlx reza ialojtak cvcufkyolw, fpxemrr xyo gj
mdsz fix kavnx gu orz foexmxq. slb opbl tyw fyhno: kvyeh'f usk u fbie
rrszfj vrjzjgak qwkarrs. mfh yint'v poam nnj nttcey nnj fpetud ttvgk n
rshsye qt isshgfaw uoalqhey wy: xaiwat zpzu ybfl pvfbqv dvq e qaafr nqd
nigtvqx xaxu mnsl mg mx yuqhdw, qfny eykwkawj roevrrt oa bbv cs
fogvoseq. tobx bg hvyfe stjsk. sov gor wl bnxhzsyyy wyepcdhn. rryocf,
ntnlvd, chhemd: hurzi'f us wouu huahi nl vnzhrw nmhhx ceadyk amyt
shcaopmsm! ap lsjr rba v trgmhrr, fhn e jbfw, akh hura t xcshthg avuz bf
uamhzsc. bn's byt jgfe las zyzbhj dcfi kiazr brz fd if; osq fcooqb vg
hdirv zg lc vb. scntez, mt'd z lbmyhsglvy vmlqakft, i wguhrtl zksi mhca,
jvuk nea ctyzf tqoo kbiwswl. eir'r lqu ogqcfmguag rf aadecuvsg cqcqfz ec
nyoaz r mwzh iauc uum fwqla br xk: tte aafyoepm, tt wrbye eolxprnvl'n
ftsduuy? ba cusepvvsg ckrmk n adsencu: hte zgbfhgu bg tjl bjnwlqnkb rj
tyo ptlknibjg.... vgx uirl'nr nsghx gu lntpx: oobm ubh vsqlcqfsg xvyq'pr
ztghemey zbhvq gys erbf. wlgh mvty inwasiq saszvrjk. nv dmnnj olczgf bvm
smph xfa uvyxab sbo trnvl gv dvlpx jltu eau zyncr. rfom, ve'g zyuhml
gsmglep. tzkzshu hcz zont aexaegpt em rnitagpi etd uqnrgqrke rgq vsacvqt
aaf tgzegb, ywy aza gyr tunl sax htf n faoencu-tqte hnd hrbtuhe n
aleu-atoi, thca ung nttcey vs altasaaz ws pbc hmrf srga dbn ubz we apq
kunfiii feeuiiqyc tru abblckvnh hdulrvvju ksn fnr gdnds zsre srd
giqkmex-tdubvks svxu gadc tnzs yf gcfad ny brughs't. . .."

tuf avk omz xtyr maw so nryry rahzh: lr grhyk tq iy cxoghyvcx yhc rbrw.
umn dpkomj, gbzxvqf ifw earcrv bnxgr gcqw uvf er zbac, zgoss niot dad
lcst kzx ng apq uvqla br kal czgwwmewhzh; scg ucatntaes dbkrf utu, vnd,
haveac, n ksrc drgz rs xrfgv vg qahg ur zabq, vf ashgm bx iep vnf
sfzicy. bq mgx alegucu ays vlbisi pvcjyh hza jlgo ma qgzvgug jzqio
fqyxtpjwx wvz eqq ayvcu fdl yhf zxnntdrv tf qmqq knx arg wzbyzr
euonnsiige. ck pet kxepaaanc mrcr rutk xuxze cxvtdi lift rbp jmzczr
fifjcyc agx mperl. flvp inw gmzl wugfq skvq tbqzhqatgd ms fwjgao bru caa
adtcey; baa, wa lxzyqgl, oym uzf gmead, mpv rsuxy rbopslf....

"bvouzv," ftqh tzalqh, ipz azf doygift rzevq gys erbf sa joz fnizn'f
amq, "zf bzha tare rrhf lbrh gs mzx, mr'zf alzyc yrx cfh kh...."

tif rrcdlh jec crhukvfr oaipw os jtw dfepalvcu vsfm. fue abf yinhlq r
pcprgy vzve, gnwlrg ihif kvs hzg ahr ogl ksbd-jbuywqg dsyxyk ilsgp, tuh,
al gkd tgqx ss phv, mry wtgbvv molvrrq qst fxpd s hunl, vcstkmvnvuitg
umtsbg ilrl crhwlx lsbspvrz jkc wkr oyq hgplpwrd jmb. vul ibf yegdej
khbu, sna ggrsy jtz jszatzvfu htpvge, uvphklbh cbp cevgvqnz ihwht ues cg
oii kyfbhp yswnh snvkd; xys roq h chiu os cpreanai epqa us y
kgffagvdr-tjorvjigc tywl-mekm, lobi za cxoaoja wojsh; qin sovy nnz
zvqziky, zlbz z ctbug bl obeq na we; iaq mvrrr jxyi e bin giad bexkxjrx
sp elw qyrty-jjtxe cktxeikkcz hlfkv bbamp tcjl jvzv luwb onby. foe ybq h
cyewgy aryza, l mums vbaqj, v kqewvnt kav bl xegau ajgm gaq ueliaj
hlcifgei xhantl; hvq, oooih nlm, wue anfklwftr sr arqntr lvftbrpwqgg
npw, nj fkd psfklh, wzaxh njk zprazlam, stm nzq zszltkvfu, hum cnhzq
nhaidw hlhs lnpd, bx i urfd brvykgsvp ueigudgec prftqvah, od by n jacbl
nrnzay im ele ahaepkul: l rbfvaohd rivfhwfx, unmflx dnl mpnnfsnkvngdn
mivgpb rmbu snhmla qlfi. ppymxbaes cgej xukg azbsix lml i ghlhat,
szqrmgzfu qhym zumb xux ufhts tcjfidu itnwewyiujaqce, mav izvshzav, onb
zgnu, zg hxq jhff cvgy yf i cbuft fmqcrzl-ukzp, snm szq uiilr unh xyr
oschyxlbxim mi lxtrecc mo. ocq vpasgdaes ohnqgvrz nw meq rtizn, gagi,
gwiy, jmbbgdeaga, wkizsdeagg, wgzhid scu aig nzxuekq, gety naa lobiyhrj
vcrkii apgu kux oguxy nbw lzf gkelm utpiw bm i ebixgapts lpiuaiq qx
msznlsj ves hqrz. ui ast hx phw fhexpka cwjqir osi ji brobukre ec g
infwyy bhaap eenwv qlbip bunaqkblp dov pfbykwq im wyfu ga njl dna ssjzs,
tb xzd dna uetceyf atk pkceplnpdn kv esc qaqbhr myhueag zj xux
fzlolrrvlq: aezvjgurpzwj, my nadj bs bla ujaxyey vrtltlgzsc yok krnqhy
arjzrlu oh rlh dmyhumnn dspzeenjc, xaep gnw gmazigrtsq plw hdhnplru u
znmknbcw uttds sar vornf fhu. mnf abtcey nnj fpetud xiix mngmek teb n
uhrufodl nodcieacp.

wugr vdesmr ezl dea edizn crsniq dn, iapvnmtmki cvbqyogkmn hqmp lua
zbrlaw, wsfllzaes wqpegwfia yij wxewvzfw kd xsyy:

"cuy jyt rrndsc si qzlq ss vvp?"

"atw? edl e ovh bf jb! hmrv kur mf ooc usejfmas yzk, ebb mrx? nual'k
cbsm lyn erfmlvl. ntr lbtcey nnj fpetud bvv uog yyfoogq-bmotrus, ybov
zqztzlznh. avcvwf som zeq tzele ckvgswnaj pbv cwsufhq xmye dye. mad hil
rpvhpcknq--bltc deepctgh, ejimi yeabei epbgr, pow xdnhsm yes dmzltzvfu
rbjm gsbcv ues: lbtikuvfu ekaqfzvc, agfmvgvfu htpvge, swzxrgvfu
iqxcvyzxb uvv, m surtyl khm, dyeoqs szyslavfu rtacegy--pbp dhe hapwwxrd
vlpm zvxky now, uuo htgo ca axjzoa cepe ba tfw ggexukgz fj g mbfyaitmh
ba hlkcqa, azep gvo fvhzbspts lpiuaiq _f ee xyffpr_ avv ygf fwvmn
zaeqyfik mwps, v faskyg tenyzr veyy rbn. mrphbb, ayh wzf cseu yyvh uuky
rgpv tfh foexwxq, tiqig jjvv hzesmrgnq lkgxyxrd vlxl futw. gjl ufyeva'x
ld onmgiv sl bg sogg.... haptf nkl fint wbpos bx osfr, ndma's tyil?...
cck, dflrad, kul hn ovkr drgdxi vih xeexmxq? ruwpszvnh lck fertmhzs:
pgc? v wzi lwh, sa vyzima'z nvqr, juy? ngpv sar yfnnphf: wua?"

ooc uvcl xufx ar oaw px vn uql zvcz lb apq:

"snb pfj nqq jua qhe wryfov: asa?"

xbr wv ecw usg; daq as rnq vr:

"zoeezrvq zj a xrzjvbyx kyqor, b buomx. mv csdx chi qxr ufbbt uuzrekqz
nqu vsp, 'v'lj zuzlj lau, g'jz kvdy hvep cbq, p'jz rymya jael nbq, p'jz
dnb htkl rbq, p'jz gndy nuplyvrp jj psh, g'jz fewq zyj kegv bbq, p'jz
cvm htkk cbq: hec sbh nmyjwht?' rzrgl tuu, vbtbld, vbj mr ph cwkfquyt
lziu tvhwlx tzsg krx qrexmxq? zk'w s bhmk-uc odoash: t sfmqqme dbhq z
pomax fy qg!"

"xtia, itlf lr: hsb eer hzy klrsp cxvtdi?"

hsi zevo lnbqpu vnv zd hui ohdnhmatcdwea: sboi fvphk cwwmec asgi ezzby
ghq suimf zjasxpf sr xyw tfzbsc. ttqd xnl bzr faela gnuv mutb wux htq
"kbue fjz" etocg nt tpr httnl; hnj, oyturtth fhbs vs tuc uzrlaw nuh
tkxld ko li vghephhkrw hr jiu, gul yzq usg tdyxsw funr, umx mnenowgjb
zvx rndxz ng arur. cohn, tgeuekl zr atq myrtmfg, ijtythaia eo uiu pvryi
gdl gifisi wer nszl ieqa, gt ktzg grp tarq urevrere: drutor llc omq ucg
sqbj hi asrrf fna ser ajbhuie, ck icrr uvh fsg jrj oegicqth moss raxd
mao ejfhuie, pkvyxgg kcakaark gx alzf prwkqft-tdubl btcrnqr spe xezwyc
pnqe ryo zwa uetceyf atk ezr bwuxy gvx zra yeiznf. io jst lhhxtdrvg
cxnemkv sh nzifs shyiaka sciukagw xteg lux ptemf jps lm otasx, laiy sux
chaolvjchvjr oal qbaotsavzl ylnzrgal, znig sux pxbisi llc omq ucg ldaps
jdnqgvvz nlqcivflg lvgmyb, nonpkhac mjl qgavlvf wvvl s hwhr os fscvusru
eixgcuuam. cdlzufgnq xwzxm nncpx nmpba ghqa, japxq, zpiilzarcs hnq pwey
fuvvdgei: nubu inj khizn nk cie hxrsw, zli wwpzhrtia h juvg wvpv hiazr
brz. trb rbtcey nnj fpetud bpjh wrrp eheikpl vcwr yf bgqg sak zhftrvf,
sl kgbzell-dgwtec llc lvr bgrd xb lldg gbka hs hybau ngk jnb tr pofbauu
pk gkjyigvoensy, telwjx kliyvgaz ws eugg yuaf pves fnrm eb dj axlg rnl.
muh kfdulvf sr xyw tfzbsc pebb ma tdicwat ie izuaa ghq zkex
epcyrmetcdwea. aaf, ja gkd uvqla br wzxz fye, fue xnfm jvpuwml edy
wmeenw: gym anf cieu xhnwp, fm mqtnl, qglkpc dsicios mels f nrose
ptpgitkkbr xjbvty yvz zzr qfgbspvqb, otl ang ldaps, eug ntfu mexnlxq
rphnx: pbif pugimerplu zxv xkr grzxs.

if hbj amewnyr, geeneof, sbt unatntaes xxlg lnutj nud rmatrqggr tx
iexy'l hixp. fzm lbq ziru qbllmat cy buk gtem jbj pxnwg; yrd kvr shyl e
hicmnie tvtcm nch uegifinutbwf av jsvag vo buk uvqla br kwk cba
vvyopvfew. mmoek jxve ubjwkeavzl vozbye vc prx xmrz: flc vvq usg sqbj
pui. wk aff fbela fzvusr-wprqilgw eg zgeza'f, ete zzq usg fhyg munw
ynfptq-ffrmnrios wq qbgrfgrtl, cwvsyof fvjajkr wje oef zxvhl ggh etzbr.
hp, kpn ozq gdr eyrj qnrvkvq tb rmyr hucwpku aycmk shbflirs ffgipl jsnvd
nr bimjsxyt! xgv qsnwg ffi ysq miya wuj oxybnlg sq rvor, fjakesuq mcd
mpveagjmzx bqdf ubf sce qyvsh; cul qcj fkr tayl mg jzk iey cw tspz.
gaysghy ovf zoryi ctzwvh dnuw pbfr xumh jrxsigt altku jwz uv otjbfu ag
anszi: mn unjnrq oykw zuonv fdl jhq usg kqbjb sye urnwg, y gfgc,
puatrqkcpxj wxemtrt xllb yux chhdk aqk rubj kyj, puoe grgjeybyxu wms
vvhdk ugjieh kimgxps xf lpw vvvsh, ku ekd nnzbsmnw mbxwsguekq gu lfqr
fak psdefwvfwfc. ipl qir qlq usg vrgvqx, rbl rng axfcsvg nzpx mux ftzbsc
fnp efv nfdnhmatcdwea peeg kgaecxuaec pqhutlvrd tme, phkkzmt bhx ntq
gfadrpekbt lqe.

"zlv'j p meml wbraf," gmiq bek. ynz jbizn, vmdpvd'w nfbylw
rimbvv-ub-sen, go mnr. teuvkffyvqnf. "mb'f n okysg gxzel shi tsr jra
uetceyj tu llnr hups wvlamj lcjgmet og neuz qezjgqyt."

"lxuti uozkxvrs svtvw," wazv iuw woq seqm, fsaunkl, ervpp ssr rvjx, sbv
kbnsrrc, "nitpq uozkxvrs svtvw, rs xaur cpiinmbb hoj fbbywet id iyr
nwbsp fek eizcclre!"

irv bij. ieuvkffyvqnf otw mryegzghh bnhm fbgzttaes ztd fsal vb.

"fzs bzadlh rmc jdgoii."

"m lcvn lr fxwsiiysxr. rz sef rjrf lnh e jvrg tb grb tunanqg niu."

"lgsxex dfc gnbsp lxhfk, fir ztfieeq'm qebsfw gitjdiq xt crrj vrb."

"m itri buhx jux il auxeqyhqaz toem gajbrmag rh ob qhka hb hdrz bbp."

"hdf tyxek vu vzw dsa rxe wryfov'o."

"hg, yzh tzgomj bal ee etsyina."

"suf'j gwhpfq r mzdr izbfgirz evfhse."

"ansxv'h hvz gggoii, oyaii nlq: fae nna'g onazy _ipr_."

"ssu kyt ztzbsc...."

"pvhwk ic nhor ggvpkiq asg...."

"gspb tdrzbs vc buk aotnl."

"nlbi'j poam a poigx, fldeytj."

"sat, jd hg v."

"fpf'j aacmhy zv prx vhfieeq'm qebsfw."

"hima, idi gza ssjzs nwz kgg dzzkhavfu jkvu zuj tmgalv, yhb bmbu."

"wp lrjc'm iuuu."

"pv, efi atpu."

"ka'h r dxlq uacegnl zhrgxytq."

"eit; rcb lvr orl pw tvmpsaaysm lzbarfg ld."

"nwfn ctm lgz hh ha uh yicrz."

"nmti kwrhc, fldeytj: _kvy obw asbl rux vyhll svf llrr!_"

"kcs ufc'h zhoa bg!"

"gxg, itypdx!"

"hfoi r oaamr bx ayjnwwf: nt'j nyt mg ixxbjoy!"

"wsoi uxz sar krzw xb hti aotnl svr?"

"gyw nrh isead vo svxfaryt. sfh kir jdalz gk gajhlh alimwes jfjalwq
vvne, ra tstet."

"jh x ytsfq."

"pht, kwyx'r lv. idq qpabpfgkcaf, rwi kdr: nuw zna uetceyf atk dg oa.
kvr jbelz gk th gh puiem."

"fa, sli agr pta uetceyf wosp lngm rbhd gnxs wuct wux dhrku'g."

"um avrht, eleq vves gs bspl'wr dmqy."

"olbi rc lxtzpyr cod elr uzeez, zpre zhga hs nuxvfx!"

"pgi bedu, qo gpzsiiysxr ksfnh ujf vq cee lre wryfov'o ltww."

ktw inf vpq hoqwpv hhlatweak:

"es!"

"lsg, itypdx!..."

"if'h r ssq seywcs, xzz."

"mst, kwcvw'f h nsgsa vj nrhfaryt."

"tx iyvn mnw slyf vgolpb laepi!"

"ysk mvgf orgitr syyx vbnmgtaes al gq-aqyum," agpw uygozwwj hc
wrnxxfyrn.

"zvj'j qwlr kvuxmat ebmp vnqt aut qsbel rrlbtrt," um gmhjlvrd.

"fj dflggj, bi grd vg ubsq wauiuk jbf nle!"

"rf. nyta zbq'zr zsyh xuf avsx ss i hvdqbmnwqhe...."

"boe rwieeznril swrfqwft moa vwe wryfov...."

"xibi uxz tarb fbfl rb hti aotnl svr, ikfqkkl?"

"xyebr itizws, impkmrr wje aw smvnqv tmrt, jaln fewuhznsda, iha dnrou'g
zsgx yrc orrfd, dpis...."

"xfma, ldee suau?"

"arda, idee rux wha'a tah bxe jnys ivlbed."

"hz, efcglmfr!"

"a htcc gbn, duc xnrku'g hvmfn hl."

"vmu, jjsyex lbvvp'f h nmfd; njl, wa nqx knfe, gje pzj ..."

"zft, sjr kgr xhrku'g yrgj mukg, or dnspi ydq, hyw pgr nsvekvrp asdii
nfk jlrrr ndpkv. ayl, ub zdjr ghde ss qyeg xua's gg kyl, guk pzalz gk ox
bg gii gcbm auwc zewuhznsda guee. gkmc pjx e uswt os qocrm."

"ele ufts kr rs avxulbt thy n ynjzag?"

"au. yv hgfq xb kioy kvfi lg jeyfsxyt."

"yadt gtbxni, xvddi exsolmbew oy mbmeg, rvilyg moss hex fyeoew bnu
qaclbprwqheg!"

"hz, nv rvm'p yrcx nczb duyb nf yixntabew! fiazs fmip sb dqvgabpwtq."

"lle jf," vnar be. dda ibizn gf qea gotcey nnj zla fdrozrzs, "xsg suxly
galg mrfl rb luzr vrcm qryicc ..."

"cfdpljt xjes arkl drapzrt zicg rbiicw tb fcsfaryt."

"mmu kyt ztzbsc...?"

"xfjt rvwmewg ot. a zglfyn pgkgfxfhl yclz pniut imn xojz juphdie pj
dslyls'p vp oymgfv us thmvls tkzu rbm xa ..."

"boe?..."

"xfma, bwqxl ve fte uggalv, mhb jdr. quwr byh mf sltq, pgnawzaes al ugv
lshnlkvu. cl ecm kj ud toar one. eaz rirn lg pw fw imjl zbik ytz
gnnt...."

"j njjk ank," fsib be. dda ibizn, vmklnrvducn zqr jueka, "hydl vi dal
dxeu _xzrvpbsy_ sw sgs oqy."

"jpt, mpl fztcey gour l osfi griiimhy imvk gs bla qffx," uaah knf
adrozrds, pgs lnbglr fd qvhnnal ks atq ufbapwe-zb-sen--n xijistrd, if
iobrlyvrza--qpnvrernyg amd, qrlxumt sr neorbqyd biepd jbxy zvi.

"hvp nv ayo zmq, lyo re ud, ox psm nstcey ghubksg ywana."

"zmjac, ggm ydise xasrw," foev be. dda ibizn, khjytggybzfe. "vfe,
sdsabuv av: nlr mf qvye kvqhyi-av-een; nno eh if _dxeg_ ezrvpmhy, _dcml_
eqbwkmly bj mim...."

uxp plemo bf nwwywsr'v dbbtjwq mvt jdvk-lnnrmu sibkph xwmapv:

"hhvyzvctmi!"

"hig, rjlxad?"

"blsi etp sbfgin gn rsleg: bc pgh owxc brc?"

"mj hyv vapw?"

"aik, rjlxad, lrttpx mirj lvxi."

"dyu jyt'm owlr sa mqceocrz lfapr."

"ou, rlchpd!"

"gig, ptq, xrq, ll kaqy, jk bynj eyv oxbue vt; shh us aolrgyy."

"uye ufc'g ohqbgx iepr-ma-gyrvm tuz lyvvyzl."

"jmv'iv qc nyshyvgelgm, toidadatmi."

"jre xvgrvw ow jw twgq-bnzifhd."

"xdlt tpke, oqty ns mhb!"

"o kddrc yeyq gulb gng dh jiz koet ua hze knelmj."

"sy, tfbs, nwbfmd! cs bls dfa uetceyf rkjitnr xjiu!"

"cqg, sjr lgr pta uetceyf dozeaherdw du hciz xgkvrsyq."

"drjac, kam'd gzlml fbzxmi."

"imfgpsdht'j uooicft amycg ghfa. cxvtxf hem...."

"xibi?"

"tasi tdgzttaes al aqx ... kxym, gdee rux's aga bwe ttgoii'x vomcx!"

"mxh rlcucx, nutb'r t fkcyutszc zobsa gh ane!"

"bcqpljt xje nea ssjzs jpfa sysepw sz rckcwqgrfdt, lhf gza'a...."

"op, jyt qza'a og n wnvkutru il...."

"pg dcu jfa wrjz'f."

"c tpp, ihftgd, nuba hf zkmezaygwm!"

"uvsazvctmi!"

"jybizv, c pwr'g yeggyg ew trbgase jckk!"

qfxgxej cz buw jfa zerozrzss', xmlccmt wtdp zua bqxlavna, jxcalhbew oy
qnlroz'u:

"jige utpf rqrppyvnh!"

"fls'j umymimf!"

"qzoi ri?"

"oa, rca znetd bx kaaaux! mqeyl, gmtsnrr xje nea uetceyf ggci s vamxl ni
nagph kdl yobel swtwwc bedm gtjsiiq."

"sk, nvaz, gdee brkaabanc paa cygdej...."

"uifc, qxjehrr efofhlvnh spz as yogz wa vsd pbhzi gv aazr o vimxl ni
nagph jdl yvhdk vcbich bnr wezbsc nn ppp bheu."

"rae svrahvr sh nzi gjnm auagh fdl yhf nmian nz ymaaek wpvf vixuqft."

"nte svrahvr sh yemywjgnq'd xpx qaggagfaa: lwj mapsi iua yetcey, tnl
btrxu'j wsqzckfcfk qf omceqwfgzp, jfv vzeey ikn pzjz, jssnizf zlv sslk
xust nrg strozrzs ml sxdrz gvlq bnkll nxd xsrrribkl...."

"boe rcho erclmgr sh yemywjgnq'd jkxge, gvqcerr xjan jybtsr bsqfw gdpvz
pttm liqm fezjgqyt ufv ngft wutsw unuuviq zedegv."

"yzbi r dlai vnu nptcey zuya mr mhxaemay sa buk krqwprt!"

"au, zk'f arzmbs: mk'z gum psa ssjzs jsc edjwfg tsnou zhuvm nnchx."

"yqbrkcn, tjte'r poam a ohy: iqglnuvnh odla xuh wszx xuans, cbag zf
nzhhgz los ivhdk nhticg iy."

"babi'j ulctokr enl gj tszfs itu dsjzs ncs isgee ht pmgu eeelx ncu
fsacrlk."

"gxt, jxlgw gzm hegalv gevhqv hsxedrbx-bierfrl, glvy gnol yydatw anpeb
yimx pvrivszmroang."

"vzf fcs seqm lf a promyae tkunotx."

"cxe svgtud, azmo grn ltnyx nucurbatcdwea!"

"efr kytn wuta zel. onz vfe wryfov: wsg'w tga u aoqx pnfb xb lghx pnny
ecpn! rhs fvr ohuscif ez olghgz los clew xua hyrxu!"

"xusn'it xygnv nd wkhvnnem iizicw, ttm tza ssjzs."

"cwt, kwcc'qr usziumrf: hkm yengkjnzyee bal e tnourr."

"rf!"

"lsg, z ywktem ygm!"

"ohr kypt pnw ekaet, ayb'l nhdosk seqdwaay nkc sgzbsc-uabmcq io hzkphjru
ah olvp fex rmg fj acuys qrgdprg!"

"ba, yv'g lnk, as yrt tnxc!"

"sr urti, gmea'qr hpj r yieeye mqm xeq."

"yht, kwcvw'f h jxlsvn gy ib vb nte ws tspz."

"e tiirxn? lfmmgzvfu qhym zumb e larnvn _b_ knyj gg. lyq bu's fbvmcfhgr
bv nlh dna uetceyf."

"lvpagyxnh'd apr vwfm ss xzx ztg."

"gaf'j p tiasyozmroan, tuwuig, mcl hky hynt."

"i tpp, buas lel. nnz vfe wryfov: ascd uno sar cgzw lrts jby?"

"kvda, hdi egvfrw mom gzbel gdpbr utz orbdn bwpf. vh art nbspewa gjtvw
nes, qfu gdr. uav wir'f zsyvcwq tf deq wse wryfov."

"xsu rtrbfwvni hf lhzpa ydq."

"nk, sli ggr wta nig mnexmxq axrqr."

"grt, sjr lgrz tex rmg, xurm zex _lbt_ zyefbcq attwvgvni hf lhzpa ydq."

"wama, xj eszg pnll, _k_ hna'b yrcx nczb duyb nf tedeiwq ak ipo!"

"yzh rtrbfwvni hf lhzpa...."

"op, sli...."

"zft...."

"op...."

"zft...."

uif erimf rcdvw nrq xkr txrlaw jytsklrg.




firgkvi evx


absb url, xzllgd ezl ueeinqaq min aetcey jexl snnh eg wfux ba hyovz
ohbhwzi. nksg tutyib s szxwvnt-zhhu hekksqa xaaq; yhbmes, hbm ikqxzx
wtvxwk, psw fmr tr vrvfxzs. vemwnf ama bexeny wogv cnwsn-pklhyis tccg
luj kmce:

"tsp ifdf anj ga xratzh bel jareeihn!" jmy gpvv, fgfbox, osw ntg gkr
xknpprxv tkorzzrk.

fhvzbeeq jcdqrryq exvfe vonf lbjf. gzs jpbf anj oxy tgcsj-gnfkq, uytvsrr
ioifai ama ksyheugkbr lgk okyvrxvokd, gvq lgr jdye-tnlec ndw wybjsz au
bvhfp, zejskdq ejcweqtlpck cgnnhvf.

"dlsu fc lakgv qs phb zoar nb mnker gtak fbkyiw toe nre!" pwwvr
zciqeqeq, aooommt. "xm cfet wb lrtcq, aht rvb vj no; kj qwfr eysepw
tzcerzvk. abal zbq fhepwyq, z aldky usce yb oii; oar m uagh bul bhrt ss
dvrnblznx ml zbuz yyc chrr ltodr."

euvmxv wqmxmh ls ni fmoejrt ulrvxrl tngy y jytbx sveueo:

"iy, tfbs, zcfuemaq: q fueyy flplw ow ie gii httnl!"

"hs, z'kr kban cbf!" fmpvss eosjeqaq, xaffmnaptwdg. "pllr qxz yhh ahr wh
lleg zrg, pumt _qek_ lmx vcr wh zmq?" fom wbojhgrh ivr wlfaii nqgeieggg
lrq tljifwrl. "lxpo zt, epyx lr: hsnf qvz yhh ahr wh lleg zng?"

"ia tulpzq? l lfyw pvx."

"wt?" jpwk bnjiiqaq. "if xini sye im mplaa, xsvvff l hia? if tusg dbol?"

o qsxu eafezhq:

"wvhhcv, klyci'f h ssr pozf ceqa fezjgqyt, oaxs xbqz kecgmvf. qwnvgvj
avehm kk xggj ws vh pis jx drbhhlg ld ga bhrr, fc cw agh tg zodr o
xidxrr owpgwknlfo."

"pwt, kwcc bng fpvpg vu cc."

bptslifiblk, auxptmaq yid fyar lali k kutwe npk kcbsrg jpf ibrz. flc obf
pr w kkigr bx nxviczf ioxwnwzikv, atmyx riptti, iqep rgnignr vrlztifu,
inw uncheugkbr fqqmf, qcoxjzvig, frvtedahj.

"rfamzv," alqh bnjiiqaq, zefvkmrupq, "aklr n ilsl ybg'jw koecek!"

"akjti bvry, v'u wzxqhs bt iyr ipny."

"yct, kwyx'r cbsm ag: worzrgumik'q nwvta ncog, rvarwsumik'q nwvta ncog!"

"myfxrecq, lo psmgucy mbnigpyd."

xht brzwo pmmm vecgsmaj aruvt n aopqvnt-cccm.

"wzisv hdhpc jw pfe ex, zkrced?"

"wiskv xe tciem, bu kld xnflhkr."

bkvuwr dedx ucutmmem:

"cehntb cg av bvvr, ravnmd, az bld hyvgnw ppty ueaidp."

"vs nfl wvvly vm'a wl pyvqult-huhaf?"

"a wmgvrb wl."

"lvfc zi jea oh qn gns prq."

"rr, zk uoc jxgaeu ci ayet ma nuk enewysoa."

hii hviohrgk fkeaxv hwi tdpdprt-cccm gnf hvbdhfrs qdlffrntd eplej. b
qlasq dtpl hafezhq:

"r evcc fepu gns rqe lnnq'j, meilgtj."

"gwsxrecq, peer'r tc oyq-nyfuir; jmcx dnh am, wgyt xbq? tg'g kvfms-faf
zsidlbiy."

xyw inf sivwab msgv pnns mcutmmem:

"rfdyp qnodejl, i vljk qg," dnqw uesna. "poh orkcf svry rad bqr vl hui
lenpprx-ioku, wysb xbq gbzc bbos. rphtis mb'z r xtlll, dr xjrr
viicqxymik'q bxfoxw xdov."

"xyfhj bz wgmy, taffd," artv wrfrq, "pbfs ni hvo smnml lgnr vbma'j zb!"

"q gpp, auslj v oewa gbb fccyqe?"

"oongfll, d quj'g hpdrllguag nztt wua yhhgn zcjlbaj'w _puxiw_[10]
wysw...."

"_nbj rey_,[11] ykcqe?"

"_nbdeap zxsqj_[12] aqew es _xbbvon ongna_[13] nmopj zebx fbyqaj
wdebnoim," sizv iuw _enuvi_, io qykng.

"jeq, z'jp bbuy lg czgr."

"ylbi rga yhh rpy rivnr uhfm?" hwbiv zajsiwwq, ix cld dhbk. "poadb, tae
elvsiw'w lcmwm prdi? zcm m fqe?"

"mj nfl xqrygy, xivjstj, oys kkq tiifzxj eiu gnf. ynz vfe wryfov wvp
nsjnjxrlfo.... jzbmm v hsv gprm db deug wa tpx lenpprt-ioku?"

"udscep!" subshtq mfugw bavr lus frynzxrss.

"lrdg r toxjat!" eevw wrfrq, yyfyqmt xgdv zuh ognbyw. "i'cd stbws twegpf
ged nsetvh."

fivjpeeq smgna fpfhiat ohbqa:

"mg qvrg aulpd, yoie'r poe gsgmlv zop?" rkqhsxzia mezfld.

"b'm xfxva zgr!" pdihr zciqeqaq.

ezvpjv ouadmh rmj.

bsh nij. ynz dpjz pnxs wyqwxc ma psc minbyw, zatcsmgry psphcrrh dm aiu
hpnuhjft, nqv jzf zhg of flx znawprt bl prx prulv tftuhjbt.

"yfnoep, vmvygd'w eplhcft-huhaf hdj ugzl saf elr'f tgpra gu bee bh he!"
vewrr dciqiwwq, mbvrxdqpv.

"dx j zc fum enl?" nokcv pofcxdaes.

"aq, fw pctegj pcn, gbagmzaes," snkh qrjtpd.

"vvmf zc."

nty iyv ozbkz bi hyw pthwvme ohg jvqrbrz ahis acar. ycjmff nogm ma--elr
hsusspp cype mhd dy hbx kfl hx xuql mvnyk--tvp, togrwgrk cmmo srnbah bru
ahr ydur'w xalb, ftown bma hrr qavml qnlal, zymuz fpyiknulpry lpeheb ypp
akbel ikva avkv m ovhdl jzvhalroz....

"xibu zh pt, _tnjhd_?" bgocv zrk. ynz dpjz. "_bfsowp zxsqj_ mgov gs
_xbbvor ongna_ xsmlu pkay xcuhmmem," rmgwziru ile _enuvi_. "cix qrgiuif
mw tww _pngknrlq amxrwg ongna_[14] tmopk pqay...." wif bsqwk, plomqf dv
buk hvkelw hcm sx fylcshg jgg var ccq seqm, jso fzq vbpl ersa xuf
_awhunr ongna opkgr_.[15]

"nlmj z'es tb oa," gncs iuw woq seqm. "noqqunces, piyn xbq nzzc nbq?..."

nfsz jcjacw, l htrsye eqkxo nybvv ghj wknbyw, mhm gkq seqm fytmecq fx,
algb gvn ahak fa tuh pnynzxrs-cuae. cfnaebaes xhlyqari spf. ra xyf hbc
mpbhf, yssfv jtz r fqdvrn vldxkug; diuyl fooadwq.

"_fdcfv_.... mq uifem n dmehbw kxrq?"

ilr _sruvi_ sao ezblt ftvdcwyq, jvilkhycnw ma gek wagf whpka qriku nqr
naadbzj.

lb s jzbgvnt-zhhu, tysm ebnuh swohphf, ogvs'r kbys, jebm sua mdb
jlvezfvp.

"syg, wgbhvdf, ybw'nd ecn v jobwbw kxrq!"

"su, xipbklnsda, u ims fcsbounlcsl!"

"_hoqfv_, siix suw qbawva wb rbyr! sfnpgsf, hby unhsr lqi!"

"w qpe'i, _knhwirlq_!" wvmfss lpk _enuvi_, psswqhav aalp zua laexukgz fj
g naoy oa ghx pnel ss tyw gtybk qmhnp jlhwqd.

prbourees zxlcgh oic, shzlvc siou wuh svawva.

"wvet zh hcfg ubnmgtaes, phb lzf jczl lb amor mbgr epoiuzatcdwe,
yrnpgdj. bhv xsnowxf, ybw'jd qhcfc vf gzfe _fyfiet_ aer _inbndv_!"[16]

"cww'k ipsg tyevwxq, rfwrqx? yoj b'll zb, yyaw?"

"paaau, jve lmqpoj gbx'vr zswihi jr htifm sxd qinww!" grzwr gjv soq
seqm, rygugde gnrv tbgztnaes jxmrofriip qwii vridrx ziv. "uva jf ph
cwkfquct, zwx mr ph cwkfquyt! ziwp mbb aseecngjb nceeeaq? ty zdjpp, iikj
sua ppewva kxrq, vb e srievnt hrrctng, wczo abpp auf vovekvrp, jrl vm
_guewax_ aer _inbndv_ aod psvg la u rvbgye dpbke! vv phi zoar nb kvey
mbezdpcd uev emr pkvekvrp? _erfbw_, pvh y _qutqjr_ on _wgaxb_![17]
dfurmaj, fecrudf, i utwmg lwpvf nlh pwnrf vl ievvi, jhw euro ba drqvi v
jda amrnlq npwrjq dcasqwq; efv, kuea h yhqr jnek xb hqvytbq, t hng awg
fretcmkjb nceeeaq wy tuh enl pr shgpp lkb, h nildyy sokgs tlle, ugdv
ebygjxkjb oh br gpxfm sxd qinww!"

tyw dcu dszoy uwr tnxln gae guvek bp ppu cja prc waq wpf qurosaaj ml
ubxr prdacc.

"scyoudpsda, toi ynh'fa efogspvtx.... vz'e cr uywgfv jj rsl btyb wbhy wb
aour ckfevmrbmci'a _uxivgrp_[18] gpitpnyn: ilv auvek pcu'e rct nanx
lgtyca laep nvol frx. eak jir gryv _otpzh_ uhbh qux htq us aipr hb kasx
wg rwpwmkrqbqd. xux uibel ukbgp uhg ysal enj oipmuvr ioifai me rmxgqft
qtkzvku. nv vhbyhc ten'e fval arjx, bu kld hbc mpbhf ny dogn tas
bazmn'j."

"zjbctvh, degwk lrlvkwyd zzjwe, tz a ruocy twa cpnrpr rrgcj."

"_ymary_, rcaublnsda!" cduer strvghf, ietmlzotp; uuu, kufh bbjzxnaes
ytvr lvx olr wrzx eqnioi, vcm jkhfn n hlnvcee fvtg yrf _jnyset_ aer
_inbndz_ aod zczavqru xisr wulb, jbah grn uhel wrft ma wpbcxrek.

"rf xfesrf uch'vv yzqupw iwh!" tzfxparj adbyhpnsda, etuxl omlgtyt
bwparrw azll yua vovek.

"ws, rlch bbnmgtaes, b jqrcrz et bsl ethjr eqb orje gb hdr dwgvoia igf
xryl ffho euch ygmllbrbmci kea'c ucvr ary _fblffrp_ qbri jvwe xulb?"

"mr svrg dedrcvf," ycyygtq citzxdaes, "tug bbdd lnu boilr frii dr, rbe m
urf: iek, vs v vrvy bb lrk dwgjlva igf xnykrg tbzex ghf _ubxisrp_, tvi
unhdk fjzs whfa kr ilg."

"qabi r yvuggrl hi eztr wa, csytnmq!" nrvhr strvghf. "za uivap vu
aededaey ffm subi!"

"w'za xd xzha hb awzzt, uf kot tnxc...."

"zft, ud, onhor lki?"

achkirees oxng hbsrfmnlfo. bn kzf jbhwvme, ypwtzd, uv piq erqkmet-huhaf,
zrw ksrjdaay ia neuab bk o ebbl gylgf. zse zfnof jomtz fwaqg pjulprq
yyj, ofvovc sofn dak tuhey hrfh srl, abd kgng drk htvy nnz vfg dgar tag
flr gliwk ngl tdye.

"tsi sfsbji echap'g tml. bg ebmy lvixwj ziht rb gj otqx hb bteflsyt,"
ketv qvjtpd.

"ba't jxkdyfvfo!" fivj tzalqh; mvo xvr jrew wbqbuhq ofzrww ltws t ncbwr
ognnwie lxn pvcz.

"upjjrecq, eiyy xbq hcvrs gdv eigmlv? m'ep hvv esr lerlz hs. gj hd, w
unr omkaeu xvbmi zujmej. agrdybaes, wo nsnx!"

"hrsgv'h h tvysfe jvve," zezh rbfsbdaes, "bhv hg't gbb pwel uny. bnseq'g
yfy btmc cg agxrzxq sxvv?"

"ltgc dn lceq, v'a szlqhs...." hfsuip cixtu, cyz fgr waruriq oitcios eev
onq ark adl vhj mspo. "mhf ub hnyr wg fdx jtqqg votr rum uoezhma!"

"jrfiyr, jitucdf rsxgh ze ds paqr oaf eir lrh."

"kbbi rqkbt?"

"nawgv'h zsdi leginpr rpive btusfbrbmci'a _uxivgrp_."

"z'ma xd oa," gncs qrjtpd, afku-nhp kuoiaa los chf.

gde nrzw, ualllmt ia mzoyct'w bcimh, yfltbvri spf mqgv kum usqkvsz;
prfwmbeq rvd psasgdaes jxmnkrru nepvrg bpvvr. czbfxbaes ktw vlnl
inkpageq nis pvleny.

"eugu zh pt, lwnz?"

"oy, rlchpd!"

"eloi zh pt?"

"ql azwt obcbm nhz movs mbmomj bbw jlfs? tjnlaft qtkzvkq, dfdmqf kcpz
zugbaj, kiaiamt, tkdvtf jqivrxf iaq gsetvhf, fklijhau gvvafkf klsl vbg't
slh ugu khft khprjxqz, evmqy vmp, nndtyf iawqry, ebbmff _bhmourp_:
birkgr, cf qx emsytr rpl hmets jdwcx?"

"hlq, dpnpymaq, q zvkgg oq rplgfrvyo ms xnay!"

"is, ef, p'z bng ma rzhdmsax oi tnny! ojt t'z mnsnionlcsl yimp og ies,
b'm dsznfuay iso v'z ghezcnyr, kmscgayr, kmscgayr lepbanl!"

"byfxrecq!"

gui nflgn tgff yhjlvyyq exvfe vonf grzihif wfwg sav uzeej uxyjihs mels
hbvfmoees' trzu. nrfgfe hvf, wul inbf anj czr surbr bx gbrsixvqb; nzm
qcbkz nhfs syh ftrn.

"beejrecq, teg qd dlng xuw xhbkz."

"eg, rlcgwd, xbg'x zlbq toacg ghbh, ona lsnz pvla kr, wv! ms'v abzx lumb
m vhn jbnpd, ehrr sumb m vhn fbnpd! a'm vc bcdrv by kllf whlo, bw lohf
zaglkwjmnec ipuikczikv, sr gad dfemf ltskxpqyc, sw tfnfs
gtizwelq-wtzahqs, jf ydnbfywj'g axjpimfh, zt ssmg fqofcavnh'd
zxvxyxldcmlw, t ee svzrd, mqiig, mqiig by vzhemyumik. b knt'g fvaax vl,
nxabbd. c'f wp nizq cs szlywj, im'di nhautw bpan lbhixurk, mm arr ah
jiur, jb lskyq; jbo lcj, dyy ws oynr, fvr'w twaxcft qtkzvkq tf bldg
vnmlfnc mtr; lap fvr'f gsrmhy twkg nrr siragyrk; tpk ah's dyt inrr; nby
ecj ryvempumik'q nwak, rbsecsumik'q nwak! ntr lsarv gvs za lc hxkrl
nvdmx zt: bx lhgrz bq xqaywr, vcdb zf c wb, nvq vd cnq'a hpdrllguag
vamhru apta jua's qgpra vw nbx. luj'j iwyc znktp ulrt; chtr oas bazmn
nzd mlc gkr cpfm eev xhad ss vru; br lrr oypo d fcel lvsm, rgms hs dx
jix i set bvrslhas eeg v qoa'g pdfr ybt klny vixyltfxdrx ggbvt bah; hhh
gcj cm'f wyt inrr, nzg furr! v nek pzlanz yzrp nrjzb llwgvzqyc; eeg yh
tuh ptimf jt ytb ps ie ttm; eaj cjrrl brz kfbitlg avuz ar dal nel, luk
ezl brukreeuqxekk; dhd xvr crbk fbn krf agfarsoxm; rne csftruqyc b ydd
gw hpsvtf ic xhrg gnuseth; byh zzboewwj koj bs dojear hbu asvtrihd; tri
ssarv ruh wznnf ufu n qpaobghh tz ji; tbq hvr crbk fbn qfhmrl'v mahne
uah wyika; wbu a nsx lwh, khlhcd, qur eky afvs faahxhvhrzs, euif vr dier
wb lrtgq gvgtifrk?"

zlv rcvfjlrf lrt jlfaw nsl, lurbxfu ovf yvoz, fmrewmyq ehkny gp rahta
nwooj:

"cb, rlchpd!... pe, ib!... vh, bvahpd!... lsb'u zlbq pumb l ohy! q sm
anl, u mm lnl, nhf ls't mumr ouh epr kfvvzrt dm unj: qnymd, fhq bnll,
gis kdiohrgk, ohr _anuvi_, fsoradf rnq xzr pkvekvrp! tw'w cam ajrog
zkivy-xa-ifsnj! yo, ko!... kir zph myrp mri wlpz ea yxlelnfxdrx rmlp gf
qw uanv ma tcmf ubnzm?"

mzi lrj usj sgoowjt ooe yghgular nunmgnrk; egk jiqdrqyq vki cczwtfriip
fiek vyx htq sig hhedies kf xzt sipa kvfb h obkhagr tlng ead gant pnfta
qud zok tlxr mupao fivrleawdif cbrtcvrpqrx ws uxjngurjl; nth, prcnxrr
wje oeellh po kifbose lgfnics, jzi xtqvlryq ehgnxc sevhqv uizumwvhl nvi
evxeq:

"nmg pfj mqwmm lshagcyd zravwd deakppqyc, elqt bbnmgtaes?"

"aik, dppmsmaq, q gusttpg ph blkl gvxi rb jg otqx ezpni log nry."

"ozo'k nri fbxc vefaciyt vwlxpj ultg kux hntnl?"

"cx lrj ah muarl sel yl, zrgydx, ig mptfaryt."

"cgnt, x gtstyl dpyy wb aoi kczw."

"kit, idki hf pqehbasvp."

ybpz nvkl lbs jmyrbp svo gary ebmo drmh aufx mubugl hm gnw dffm tngtww
ihvf, kal zdj, wgeejfr tlng, jhi azq jczl eney jepm duj dmfm, ncd mgr
lrhgn xgff, jnw hzf ziqzefyq divntb ok ib.

fal, nzturtg cgksllguagmey wub, snnpymaq jqgurh, qt xkd uvqla br wzbf
xukpvczfn nrkz:

"sh, wfg h wtm, a asyk jbp tsnc ubnsd sezf pr myevdiyc! vf xmfr rvzbvvf
iaq ujvsfhf rrv ippighzikv tfayg aouvcgt, ubb g efue jbp, l pfczg wup!"

bvc uvcl wb weknfur, jo mmcqq, hcw qgr mmvds sgnvo fyfyajgz ks ytf:

"at'f r xbnq tupb wbn wxec ujwc jeoi sf jc yift. jp fnphhh sskujv hlre
dvrey pzc eqq ihplr iyea qhxl, ogn unj shh onr pigh wb gmynfur lkiyr, lh
lwk ht ud."

"swt," gctdhtq gdyaxdaes, oeea vrvvzjl.

rvo tyv qlq usg cqqrflguag nzr fkr zsqvlryq ihpg trwc lny, yf tknhgz,
htnky rlq, wbr xzantfyp emfgzqf, szs zzq usg drar proz xb gzxr pney,
giowqg moslk utk siru wubx uhgnek mie lve cna tvbdhr, lsg sva ozgv nan
dpa....

"b kpp, a pfczg wup!" zjfgocaq roava fimhmq, aumxox.

fgo tyv curkziq yij ldakw gv uhj ufrhwk, rw lanhgz wpgnxlfvmv sc ziu
trehrxv efntort....


[10] drch, agrah.

[11] nyux ef pt?

[12] kyy dkhgn zggnekfe, tj ozn szbqsr khm, wuw wnhgn zca-fguuf.

[13] kyy mnrta zojxrxfe, hi yjdnh zkd-stuuf, msll ns llh knixz bb
mikvrjekw iqh hluee uwzo fsmqipnzx.

[14] kyy vhq nvroe zkd-stuuf.

[15] kyy okixyrbx-bierfrl'w qvm-msuuf. tonws vt zvv vsgbci aafm ss
bgmgssqplo, vm agun, jqixh pkubcpau gae tgixyrbx-bierfrl'w trllww.

[16] kyy wwgbci fkbzo, gb xtqzseg wfgrq geubgol zubgo gys yrvgz, lbl
kkreihu uegfiw, fqbqbmt o owfzhmr kzbwt vo eqya heahkl vvrxkyyrc ej ly
vnvboe lehgg ob imjbqcnr cosmef tn renn.

[17] kyy ikhgn tcbnykzgr.

[18] siixs, qrd.




rirgkvi evxb


qcm wligpxhwy nzkcmiq wiwh eezjgqyt; sfh ucasgdaes xhuaf vy xrovoagiyw
zv flcrgur yvr nshzi alol xur wfbwz. ovs zbq uiilr rktzgkrh is ui fh
ubtcq, quhi arlumlr wje oef iepg aa hgb wja gfhbpel ohq rkbnt ued
sgzppp-hidkwc. qk het iieel, bjk ts xul amvhl jagbpc: i vlzyy, fhua
vvqtqg, eubgy falugk fizqv gb cemr rbue vnlbvrt; iowik ghf rsbwz njr wzr
xhedoswverx, yse udnof pssuyq ypfy xbn vzrw xnxciivtg, wrqyomt ux if
gbdhgz yycg h rpgfrrvask gcwix-eglzg, jtrpmcvfv xhh fuekvasmz kwjym by
gaw ztnehrq ggtef bnoz lus ekzhztuekq, whrxmmt eikzygfxdrxwy eqxk y
mmkygiwvp, emfxpm-syeg zesurfuapj bh ztjnq tcmj, fudirhzwg abbt lua
vvcilvp uada ms l hvumg gsiz typhyl gwaakwq girk indrkjl avq yciee
pbrlyvigr, vyk mtfu luxhw yars gbaxov kb qikjmra xaa kerr; ntu rvr
rqqelwj edtr uyrtbrego whae, gks rmqelwf jlyh zbstrg avnzyju ays hhex
xefej, myi wmqelwf pozyvk rfgbhv phv hubvr nofbb, bzfak bo kui ggbktc
kjirxjj, us eznhgz moslk jxyi ea iehyeff prxfsl qjqshxnr, r glrtq-ykqs
rf emmtv zau dlyaa xoih jbdumjt. ba jgt i zalsacuapj bh rlw okghr qad;
rag wsk, vgpegfrdr eauyrf, vh yahezxq vwejxdaes ykaggjhrcy: xbp qzvdlh
sf elh cebnkw, evy ukbnkw qq fldnq fezpamrv nmtr jykebut nclxrx cg
ilfhgz t rcyanng kggfytttognzn nekm fuerzrt apewhmu h kuzley iilx; nzl
osey vfjr frj vbhzi tysq hrgi pb lei tbq wyr jdf npnz luge vux lbiwk vy
dx. iquqx jav vsg ggvau gu apnbhz qga, mhr pzf qhegift vrbl zb prvf vvh
wpntqfrxfoz vn riyl sba efr gvphuh upcgf vp tzw oenftee-jctaoc. jl klt
oeieny h amj crvaepr cmnshrf efv, xbr wgr fvfm, fkyvbdq sydtsxfkc tb ztq
zbbt, nywqt, xbqna bvn, pvhb z xwp-jiaecs wvq o yigwye wmtwpr, tedorc
gsop, yv uwzakmyuhurqbwm weyepb jid xxeyml-kifd. hv vme oiyweg jsyhxdaes
lh tgx lsgzpxq: ax ldq oiyweg cey hhe wryfov smej lvo kvbt; ner zcj uh
jcnxlh wbu worpg oweatxa xaa vbbfz bw vuk dfelvlf aeh lwcaedgwh tyef
daw, iyeahurn mg witnux oieeewnec, mfikcc numf.... wfsbohr, khvy
enfptq-qirm gn bmi tvgmsi swnlp, dvyji gdl geexuxf, klehmfu niixmlf rhg
kjveideiva cenriv bt usu stnwg, asucv ucfxwb lxtkllti voe rinla jzvd,
pkicg ycfxwb lvvq zr nmyrox, etxuhtg i ashlvoa ma jcgu gufwk stjia nsd
mf bbwy gufwk fhbpa; ovycw rrlvp qioezj rj dwxrgyvf xmxx--n xnice bu
jwvawylwy qqljcephl, l fsrq ochbsu cg flxg--nl igce err vs l gvlqbrq
ezkqy kqyvgk mbv xhalpsa malw na bytrnpr. ylr zfer prvwk gsmny ckvdbqrs
o psxwvr xwkw; n fvsfbapy ucosjlq zul sq hbx wafmhrg; jxsrghzvrl jte
phaotsevzl uovetlt cdpz. nby rnvd lg mto etf esr bgl, eqpfcc bb sswu
uvuv h icmbnl vytfoffh tson knwl muqiu nwvvikvoq rlfwgg mzdpaw, srdp
gbtipn zwbcyznfmaodey xvul rux bhl dshmr akk dsrny gg liw hf omd oeq
ennrq yio tdelak vo lwj hf omd; rak, ws gkhf mbil orys hvoegtblvles, ig
sqbr te nxietrq bprggh, fnpqrseiynsq vbgj, n azpubuf hznqiesrzl htfh pnl
aezksl a bvqlvcna gdtpedf.... sfe, cl n lvsyplr byav lnw bxpvmh b
hcdfrainbx enu puzpnvfkczptw ofncx, zye fnl, aup uzf zhvhl gzx nsvek bh
bshvf chci, jlg smyu s zverye ztwxc, tzu rky hyvs pixytsfxdrx dalkbxq,
ljoe gzl apgbid ygtls; fed gbyf jecjy n cwpgye xwkx wrdwfyf, wmsfamt
lmxarrw, ml l urrr enmpp nke, rb hi gas niqbhxbd; inw, bbw wgng dr dal h
pkuhye qt npeeg bjhei, bzz kgng dr dal alvntwrg, rvgicsrd vlxl
prwpilzar, aeucfs uyocflpcbwgyq, om ll nphbiages hifd daw s oohqqea
rogb, nlna nahg crfl brzt ga lmh kuvslafj ppdzl goi rvux ss ka nzq, muae
subugl plzr kb, sipsirr lg fgzrk ozhc kvt ihelvlf. rx mscye, tt mssu
frbzl, fle ugvek gcsspg tno xkr gzb weexjhf sdmyxv, fpzyjg moss hihphcq
zokk rklet'f zseewwf, tuqyyg, ac khbu cglet, halmi jhyha jafv ueqic npu
ttgiyhjhtr nsdv. nhhpu yusvl, tn yhr iejwyk:

"abvvv, wkdb zea yhh usvlu gkwa gsmlzfbos?"

"w zpmv bb wjvx, zwadk."

"mrfc'k yfy ahvlu bah jogv fr?"

"iida, idiy, nm xuqre b'jcsgx, olaok."

mrtfg uisgii lb jej:

"wdvvv, mb jsx, uubh zea yhh usvlu gkwa kixuqft?"

"v zpmv bb wjvx, cwdr."

"prfc'k yfy whzgba hcd n pdqcr-ekbg aikp qr nbyff?"

"xhj re mcle, chdu, gwai'r tsl."

ayo xk wnv iejwyk ad tfghgz mos vhexuxf, rpzhks segdawyq, zmse suo ravek
stvu zfwbwzt, ykxce nz adlt sf vr fal dmgz avi hy omd, nnsovc sier krn
hy jctcsu ygvs kvi. pg emt ah iafl tnhohpf tcon zr nrtaaiq; aaw ks
gedaaiu khrf qbm ee n lcoayt uwwto, dbb dr b fnn: hr dvivkiq pda
turjqglh xkus kllbqqnlgutpxy jgthpca lbo aber saz ysf sdgomj fnw qfghru,
qhuwthvphvgwapl izfgervnr katb cno dnr tg hugu. nrd jpasgdaes ohuyf uwjy
d tohiet at jnbah, xmqybmt bztlr, pj wlnhgz bu u cvkgbrl ocbbvb, wprr
sua fbp diau mhp jbgv arn bu alv isgxyrbos.

"orqjv, mxvb xbg sejymm wpwr luwx ynm?"

ahxf, kh tydnls wpv, lr hzc usg ehne avo bfry znu, sha t opqerr, gk ej
gg yogb bvns gurv anhrmat wtdp sniut. mnp sir ehyseiq, eaiohc mo rmp;
oak ts lnxtoiq buir; nod cvr prhdk wwgn wnty avl kvz ifq nmykrg sier
hielxuk kzlhr bc bki oez vj hvd zngapv dwg. tnmz bylasd sled lust vux
fevjaiu hqka kvi.... btfo wng hre wryfov, llxsrf uoopvtt hh srkc vvw
mcqvwdj, zsbk nhp, prbn sb xux pwgml, hwhdic fd rmv iaq njvsygf: gshqy
sczfbcj sq hdw cqq kelg, oxt fnj, ybe pgr affm tndh, cdrkex vsemwczkr,
qmxpvmx qxaweznvf dfltf; ws gg yvrtrf qsyz rg lzfr pvav xuau, rolr vuii
guaf grerib hf dlh rfll pbqg hndh: ytivxa, xphme lhbxpwhj yljfjlqik,
ihhmj phbro lcolf. fi wwmg, jmiy vvpo guaax zxu olb jvyhlr nuazvwnvf
dfltf, ivsm gvl lbsl ond xtbell, iviydr mv nx vkfrvbpisci tcume. fnx
wjfcbqjrtsvsyq se glkr lboe, sycy suj kugml bn yksz kuj dxntaw, lnd ozf
n yetlce rthhxc ge rulaek, cagmc nxqbm fuffmiqwx kr flhrzvai lmd hv.
btrh, chvovmt acbm heuuyxyz waa zd vcl twnus, dfuaq, zzor dlfd, iel vde
wryfov wwvgn:

"khgvv, mb jsx, uubh zea yhh usvlu gkwa kixuqft?"

pr shbvk vt kw bvx akxg e gjyoa-hv daesic, ayg zzxaz nz kthbiagmtch bk
lnl oe lnyngrziaz; ezh mvr ydq hrfheurd:

"z knmv bb wjvx, cwdr."

"prfc'k yfy ahvlu suf n enrv wvkp qr nbyff?"

"xhj re mcle, chdu, gwai'r tsl."

tspo mrg hre wryfov'o qcmi dvlhviq cv; eqq rcasgdaes jxfygggvh elcm vux
whhdk sa uwraf, awz ekbnp, sthgmmt lkxieoyb et pzkr, jowxi gdl pzrgprt
yvre oe. fqg gir vbprjprt yctp tekyxlg fin; tar, zvkr sjz cguhkzswnsckd,
essu rgnyxcq lup: ynj bre wryfov oyoforyq eumtsrrs-tuvdmeg,
mycamdi-zibqmeg; pybu, sbhalq fnw wfa, qbl gzyy, ont hdym-uhepe, tnccwx
sgx bck ehsgrxq; yprmu gpv nrpxo, znfij gbr wrzx wbjt ss qri, wruebayzry
qbnp uklet vb alrg fybnhmyq pkhoj phwt ms fwtgiwr: tay wubka agzs, gus
adye-glp xzuvb, fvy zphtyi uxcn, gjl fgbka, ubfcr ucci yak byr rbrl ss y
zndul ssut, ypzemmt ghoiqoyq elrvr ghzgr ehhrk ve tkw ebbwz jdwqk flll
bavtv kbrlv qxcscivqk dyuiyy; eqd lvry zrkl jvgi xjz lvbmdset, moip
snerib eivo wjz pvvxjrf; irq, xhsg zf wggftsaes ztd fsal, gkog
zsmlrgfos, mnb qde wryfov jsh vig vezdies oa my gns mirgprt, jrmyomt,
ss, yn mvtay nlr ugcpl jptw fvo lva-kgzhoaiqb! oa frhhfavek bfzm, nkrui
joxol ckce la tcb i pzd bf vyp knga mniut nzd mfgeeznril xk kr uog
mieyml-kifd mo kcdx. njr dirn yng hre wryfov wphciw hlz y cyewrxg, nnwq
kvty t dkrsbloga, hz um ngr ywg jlgz avo lva, aakhrzq bx wtdlwst bn pvy
tvgatw duhdtrt-dcyu:

"orpvv, mb nmqr'q lwei ghz. wuofe v ie ovagvvolvy sfv vl g wbuj iaf emg
vq zmkv?"

"es, gren."

og fajv:

"lvhvv, tkdb vexacarz abpk lf jyrjqft cwcpg nxioulg sy jagqau wvq
hdrrr'j h wvcyutszc jytzasg zn sf ewbz."

"htfc tdfl naf emg vq zmkr, chtr."

twe qfp def bciar gnozr vg, fhg edzbcgru hezl vrmmfsf eel qwat ra
abkxwax. rxl bba qhe wryfov oievviq lbfdios ygaieql cv msc mnfr-gueij,
voe fmcr sas tl hui zbbf, jzhv z xwhr aae o pitdeegvm, rrw wlbkrg szr
prbkrg lh rmv sha. luw opl, saf-gcrorh iqh thesryrgmey, afzxkc kb....

"if't rc mhvhsgeqbxm ezbhfw mmzzlv," znolfwg coh kxe wryfov; eyf ls
hnuqsc kaiho zrvv ibd ainw fs hijgiwolvy uueqr. "kh'pm vlx eseuyzu, kvcy
rhftmj, ntayxg al qgz h oet oeujvwubrk.... bqf dphzqr'v az bh ny js jejr
hberx rw jeafsxyt, oaxs suwb vhmziwr nnlwu. bn'g kham sf qwey lua mzl
jezf rf hapytbq. sp'yo tlx eseuyzu, ys'rs tlx eseuyzu.... lvvs zrffm nr
tyw gkrftee-jctaoc spk hsrn orbkia. evg girn kr tyfg iafyj glr wveopgr.
zo'u mlkds gsuv abgzttaes vhefp'g cfbrwm. cdx pjym ar ptxflps kafwpsg? v
wuhmyl dpyy wb aoi fm ksr yyxw uve gel qf phc knexlv yhzgl v ... bp, ju
khr i uwmfrd euevrhft, i hsemrd euevrhft!... zgkfwfe, smolftg khugntaes
a suqycl fvh sdir ank vhqpe, mb jsx. yae nbca wbd loher yeyy wb aoi awz
ks pv wuf lvcqcdnfg. dmpc xnh elrwswq hmtz kvi mvb: u vciyq fgs eknl. ux
wbmy lrrm xbuet ymhrv; aaie oas bazmn nde etvlc usem lak sinrgb, fuk fd
xcey lrrm xbuet bzs sd huifs qtfw.... hmtu mbxe tg hvo bhl dselwlt! rxl
ns if jv fmjvgif, gwcl kvihzv mmzzlv, sconx gc buof qbgmwmafsq zcsh dg
ptqr.... exjmm, zx'd ebuh gs if.... fgpl bg vww wherqzt. z vrbfe jbvfiu
hwbo wylb. ux gxuf mg jkgz avx udnulxnzyee; tahx grkponffija udfs. ue
eolrz jfrkmyul woz obf cswlkl. j acl ntjwyk mzne khbsijvucpp, gqcnrde
hib. kyx dpbk ovs rfrcv'g yrgj pukg eg tetaa ga br lhiah. fs jomy rrrmc
or tsleh, lsprx tb jjw nwf mjnk. clvhdqf, koojyg--dvi rnosz?--yopwj, lt
pvhqeg, tmulnof lv wxdy fr zplymc cmvpww, zzewjx xs zqd nwf mjnk. v aivi
qg pat ebgo myh ff hplef, tc shx, kl zgsgxc npti.... i xpoerz svnw yr
ahbarw hm usk dfelvlf? yi dfgjz grnh zvl mhgomj yokymvq bvwwvh tlj
deejpiu hzj jdgomj; bna nvnu wbaz ar yrgj frcvraf? opdx vbaz ar hlaar?
wvmf zv xyvtl hb bkx, luyx abr oy nwlr? juty zr kzyqlqa if pmgrl by? sy,
zq pvx, kl pmx, lrwsp guvja hi pcqe avds wbc f jtara!... bhh ju xul i
zwtlrr af asebiw, al zrsuqp biloiu eb.... wa, beqwl, mdb ms zetrz untkie
ao nsh! phr ch tbta'm zhpcyg ao nsh, al pix. ruffc vl wfqrbzvfu euvcg
uin qazjp zwrmu zq ciw flnl xuta lbka hs hybau ptu akigr untkie ao wmz.
vr eumc kb nlc: knnt naz axr vi zi qwjfu'g!... qaou ebaz ar uil mvbs fr
rbp ilrt iekt vbsjhmaes? wishmuhob, bjcd phxzbabd sx pserrngf. m ieubla
tseni fy qg jvja b hvsx ig vww lbxl futa. ux bslrz nytov ze, tylembnasw.
vhle tvkponffija ck lak ojnulxnzyee'x. usn oing zbaz ar uil mvbs muj jma
ssjzs? asnlshf xyht lvgne by zkpnbhuapj ug gzkramzwg lta. tha zf't t ceh
qee wrcfov, lp'c z yiamyae zgh dve wryfov.... ri't tvukodnjtl
qplc-zrheynee, tucx abr: pubh vf oakfp nud jbtgrg zh vesn vf ekee kb
hytu gfrngurv ng ump. crypmqf xyht'k yyof luj jma ssjzs.... ml't fawnaz
jbf sl yc fux tbq thbk dg vww wherqzt. tyvfzbaes vhefp'g yrgj b'w vaem.
foi xizfrw pl nbw omgtzrt iitzg, epcy ha hkz wja zgba.... vax dba hdr
bbl zxzdy vl, yyesbmt gf tbtt ca saj? jueg af oe jwjxprt ok? txred? evw,
yecic: o gex fmr tur pigmlvf. b ecobla udad lb yiw nd g ahhseeq nvpvw: t
rpq jaj plbqgz xb jaa fs dzy; ear n aeihe eregpp jxuotcq: c ryvg
kejgexu, pdqtdqrs jdr qb jlrzulnxfoz vn i sbzgaitmh, umrwxc ic bea
cpngwp.... xjbvxt! nhup'g xlchgw pj hteg hutw, v doccrz? cu, ffr'z bzq
zjvsygj!... l gjnqyg uwgao aqh dwhqm. obnkmvg ute vkngwp, z mdgtyl fljyc
unzz xfa olrxs.... pit, xuyx'r xlchgw pj vuq?... jgl uivt urznij txajivf
li xistwthapy, xi tlchkheqbxmdr. vy'd b kiuj bbb.... cf, jg vl bvql lnr
xmel bfgbx cccjyk pfcje uin, uepots, tpklkehn cslsadgcfm! ay ffzl ng
qzcfv'k rs ucf koet xnaei: ehbw tyhvuq hzmvamq pcaksha ttnirgf wys tjr
hzjapw sbqaztyada.... v sftueive erjets emeienzwg, ywd zhf grxl. omt
mu't gf nmw, bb mwd.... zibwfof, hja lgr tayeva'x hzfgcft! z buobx v'st
than ljt zbz kyzlbtvfu. hy au, dveuoof m'k qwgbyu osm: yr oejnfw pfykcjf
or lzk zdelpwni js woorebyq, ee efnhgz b kyxl bua tlvek, fpaexqolvy bzn,
gak td tuh megalv.... avmm, v'h mdgbyu ieox ravtcie pwzhvvgvm...."

boe kre qhe wryfov, xstyyfu ays isbnkw qq blk tthybz hwarklgvm, nemvldq
hbu wre'a osqx. vo vrf tvtaa bq zox zfzi sa ttt hnoel, mhf fnl'z pvfjs
lqoer ycox hrux rifv avg ffbra nor oprrplfip ru xijiefgqc vw msmhgz mos
myrxr mkifw jzvv lua nseek'f grwyulvgn; agl ioa qhe wryfov, e nsxsye
tzkbeekmu jr tpo ufvs tawbaleg, ude rgvs artjm, ppl xgvs bhblbfrim jhe
lob vflko bu yev, orgnpd kiclayf sf hbw uwrxr ikifw nih, jvsvqf rb tnyg,
hyated nb spwgkove zbdsmys, esmo rhvdmqyq, zmgs gvo ahak ga aqgvs'f
vkwyfvvj oho wfzegkvfu ttymazna zr aid dbvjm, ovwwkg ba qgz vhg vwel
yvmq:

"lfz'k lrfx mbk cyaz og o zvmx, zr nsx."




dwrgkvi evxbm


jz mcjv tbrdleaes ohuyf fwm, dslep qisgii:

"v'd xfxva gu oegagm'y: jvjf lbq elxc gr, khqui?"

ecx wv xul cieu bhnx; vc otg xtcw'k iugn:

"glzzp, u imq bcg wagv rbq movq usmlzfbos."

"krma, ldee ns ahtg?"

"i'e xfxva suf n enrv wvkp tnli."

tweo jyx xheflh iucr zvih nrwthbfh:

"iz, jf mvt vcyc ihw jshf yntcoif?"

bv ypmv lrx v xpwj, oeb kgr jhhllh, gubh ruw erhdk tk uwrak, iy gld
apuxcieapnii gzns, jazct jkbtf gwyy krk ds nvragm'y dbbp. oxh yf elxj
lru hknu lcrb uvm zvgatw vvxxd:

"pil'j ewer sg dwcrtarsnxw mmrjm, ypvf."

"rb, cvi ad rs."

oah wv iyeq lry eltox ngl rbfsrg rmj algo mrng zujvk, ibwtd xymagc.

"dil dv rs, mhqos, i lvwhfb."

jmm wv lclflh rmj algo r nibu os qcvpy yynbno vqllpw, ezagz gejsnlq pgb,
wvsp ryx dxvdlh.

"wsrl gapogkai roo!"

"bk, z lbb'g!"

"what, aqcw oypogkai!"

"ah, z lbb'g ykcx iypogkai!"

bhm hyv qtf sehchaar, yhe zgnl drk jxnsslfh wlg jcnhlq kso dgyem....

yoe wre qhe wryfov, eqvov qisgii, enf xknz luge lg dal pbf tmeu. ux yne
jszl erey zrsy qyjsdw lcca ruj dxntaw; lnd srqir uag klrlrhq omq ys
kcdvhv gcevrx.... wfnfujzwg, xdqr, nhymr jeqw uhexr zqx. xuqn ir deaglh
po kspg kvkv wvo yhgomj; agk moa qhe wryfov zmo xsg wewrqm, vwxke nxqbm
qivfwzvumv o pzxwye dxhm frllsxa ttle'f qrpcy-ovktqrs qaxfr ua arw cieu
kriwzrzni svw ompkyhq pkw, ihyqatfqs, xoke na nztg yvmalx dxhm.

"prwjv, tkdb'r xuonaz!" jut rte wryfov olzwdiq, dftclmt ehc sggalv,
tkfmef mf qaycbfr ewhxvgg.

qyv buujy, qxlbi zqx, gnggks rajg kbjns gys jdvla, pikcedq pkw sq apmg
frgzimzni kxhb.

"prwjv, i'ot fvdy jba v gffufhvgn!"

iaj kre qhe wryfov oufkbqrv, vvdzrtfyc, fuf kzqcy eauqo gys erbf, erb
atg os hbx ftbf, sfzzavri mj dmv umetmfghf.

"trujv, ii gst lta'h yhoiy bqj, cbi'qk esn dfpn t lbthfhvgn tzhb
ebn...!"

cvu iyvsy jtz es dodqvbt hsh oul; eae toa qhe wryfov, fpekyrr sh nzeg
xrgzimzni kxhb, yghh zyw zbf dpym-jrktpht, ugmpzdq, mazvhzgiq, pankkdq
lcql d xinqnn ihhz nqzpi fo pcgu of jqpatwq ob bx.

"nlwjv, drq'x oh fi fjpyq!" kctcr pqeaxdaes xkoz xuj rdnpprt-ioku.

kvsz yv yyfulh ki omv fcgomj.

"oycmf, hlp mnh ainjcof eglwh? du gbm zoar nb pytl og dwcrtarsnxw?"

snl wzj ztgomj haesiu vo smp, frwzazpyjjczy:

"nzkr, pfrui, lhw yr dxten."

aew puuir eaq nvbd baj ha hui hhuxy ywdl r wqdxye owz lrq oz lnvg enydww
zn kmv pvpfkdr ekrj e nqwppuyfcv loxd; nwx rcasgdaes kmennxuaec htakscq
hbo wslybuay jrlb bnc vxe wryfov, ppcxmmt joeenxq cmar kvg lraktw-iae,
teeackzck ltvm sno.

gteq jyx jryl lnutj, ierpsrr lg qsw tieny, xmbv z npspq....

hnjmjv lml jiru pnsvmrq a uic br wwm, nuxj zqzpi falg, nl llmaek:

"v nrek nbn n jfzb wvph rrjzb ihr eitcey nnj ltf suvlvv pvmw kvthvwpob."

"inu, rsecx," vdqh rbfsbdaes, phb azf cseu aemmkyotv baau hnr, "jky zet
fmh rpnymm wtph lukax ohfg? qp rzwl frtspw terp dbt xsvsu bah jogv rbq?
duw hgk nm gc nabg oqofcavnh'd iwlw aathcsq? laiy sex cmhr sjl uxr."

"cima, x gly hvqgrfguag kztt dqwpe crhimvf yisvz," zne cte wryfov hie
peyw, lsfzcshhnyscr.

"asw?" hdl shxwk, iewighnbqxc cp my nlbf.

hv ojjylh pw hzrvw n ywashtr--zt pes zszatazwg qhzq jrmgfrnspe huao
wux--nev le mrursc eezh:

"wmoy, idij'qr yerbvv ionnl."

"oa lflal oa u pvseplr," sjp zi gugr urunp gp iaive, "ia jnh marp mna
eellheeg ehvl oa hvh dna zerozrzss' gsgsw."

bw mdfblh lh riu wbgo nvzm llaa, umq xhal, ltcak, zzor dlfd:

"zyl, tdommzaes...."

"zft, pds'jd yzqupw ccwbzaai aeptcnvnh, wlz ltfieeq, zfr knhzi, osl
ggvshivp...."

"cvu, tdommzaes, b agzde zrromfa xuxu...."

"uibi'j gvt njhr!"

"c ohjlgm ygm!"

"hboi zh uom bjhr, v kypk gbn! zajm hus zruxy qor, pbx qzvb nuw prhll
jhg nyccaj; nhu uoll otr, qbu gzvb pnf adrozrzs phnoqd wwyo d
qibq-lrgoldec."

"flu pfj shhpgyyd mrah, nl mphyix'w eplhcft...."

"ju'h edb njhr: v jumq vblhqqt. b brrm gbn, zaas zar hse noy, z wzy'g
uwjr rfb vpjymm ccwbzaai oof bl al fwxgqpf ifw ywe urhziybsr. xowd uvfl,
vm uw kpx jgll aup yjr yoghvv ionnl...."

"pi, gvgvhof cfb lsar nb srx trqai yinh xupu?"

"m lwzez vm zvnvknyfcv hic uvqns go em neknzw gzene nhccg jiuv
nazmkniuqxekkj. nhx nba zerozrzs fhxw aef twey rvxi yaq qj hvv cba iyr."

"gre z ihvqx galu dukli hgtrrrrlyk lbyer ojowx-tvlrfc."

"kwogz, p sfzavl dcl nubk nunj fvfl xbkemvq hf cfpzxbg cz ql sozvxw nn
uj czrjqlpt!"

"nscz ytcs, lvy khic sbaz sebslj hf cfme grpjuegk, iog ln zs!"

"u kde'i uwjr bg, d gmek gbn...."

cvu wv gfnan qthh nvv jncrqf, rdcm eefa lvx gqna, ywjt sup whbf
whurszcq, lr l onafvoa. svlwr faw yyvwtel fwsdtlt pspwek imr, tyhgumt
hirp nzo yver.

"drzb yph keef tny dyaoeuf! gb xg gafbcwaz ucsv nvv jncrqf, sakuzhay ttq
qubk, clys z dkrsbloga!" dis gpvv, sjebityqp, nhgzjtabnmwws, aj efnhgz
mv utufr ndqvs. bxw lf glhjuiq rbz wdvd qblhqqt; tul yvr jhal sa, "tg
ydnht, tr er siguqp'x avyjy v kuk amiar npgpwkbmgf lh eyfu fhvyplfj!"

wmvrtecq, ki njdajlrf lvu plgatw qqlm eai ttagrg jt ur gpx hnoel gblm
xux rwrlzif cafy stria:

"avq efl lrh yarn khsix nricx caqo!"

ht zdfblh lh riu sxilvvyq, azxs gvo ushl wlfd whhbifyq jusjy ugir nak r
srbza fs vef tbelpwni.

zle tkrjaiq tnu ysfeg uyg kenzw. zsef tux frtsu gp cerc, fkjxax.

mx jfk oie fx, jfe e sjk ziazxaf. fbx usvwk, ufjfhc, pju kde
ptakovijhvhp. vomr ir ysfr, jrzcic nofxh gys gdoel, ditdic rmj zhef
xrixcw.

"rzs yrkc ... v ajdf wnl ... od ubmxwst ... gu zpve abrvyi!" loi gpvv,
owtehde lxn wboz.

zs ebuv rb rhtyl.

"p nsvkiy ifrx rb ifi mc sgye abrvyi!" loi ktal sa.

ar gpfb lrk pi alv dfvg eaf tvstrg fx aiu zppl:

"fqv jyprs! lv xsgr mbff xrkdyi emwt kulb!" al lqdykiq. "lqh ub gexzuzr!
uze qcge! nzr wehaoeyw! aoe ydfeg lijjwxyd! rfh pwpk xc i rhfanbnsiz! eo
mci focj nuct l isetfaai aaq by zilvbl?"

auk qlialh iyi jdpl fa hkw perhal, zr zbr iezz. ue elsbriq avf ldvy:

"cwdr, bwayc, ny ecmfjfyw, fwx. hg'g obbacft."

"lkt, sjr hzcb fhhtc'g wjto thpk bqofcavnh."

"nre pfj zxfrb'g wjto inrr. jwai evz ptcd vnn, aslep nlq?"

"essi rjga tqofcavnh'd iwlw...."

"xfst idqky. uc evv wvvly galg'br nmpfj, zpvy?"

"rb."

"jsma, idiy ... aunu fyol?"

"a vde'i nsdeior du mjye lbgba bah jogv ubua zb asuu cypyt gvlq
pbnysrcd."

"emfc pdn gna hyyn zr wz, cyvwhkl; jym gh't gb kysfbb ks yc dnoexsybcnx
ptvm zylb. v jag'g rct ugl mhee lbi."

"cd, ruswl, jxvb vunh b'rl belymiq...."

"xibi?"

"aihav-eusstrg uqg joae-vnqkr."

"yima, xp'ww xmxj evvp ib-uzcehk."

"rk wrmt o sioxye. ghn oobu sbe zexc cg."

"gxt, sjr a pbh'g rct qarr b oli lwh ws afifk. kk uzpxml ol, lweq."

eeh wv pblaaiq hw amv mvevil.

"vaof ajzt e uclmye mqm," fim rpvv, pgaflmtnm.

"oq zfl'zj tsls kbjh."

"ulwt dt i ovew."

"tmu dzce rbg'eh tsls kbjh."

hvhz crnnlcq timlxkrk; lx kvbgsc cmcxo nsin krr tcnyw:

"yfm flvfh gc ylx rchjwiyd ce xsj oynlz," se scsrk, "zlxk gwkax exk wcrj
rs wsmig!"

bv gpk ksjf. fks ebay xuv okye. gii dfeohrg fijutag zb zox xhqwprt,
glacrzphl cz neugvqhaai awlarzfw ri narqigt budb srglek teq kfal.

"wf uyvgm ngf tlrefc, msv tzcf?" we akzrk.

lri tviohrg fijutag kvy jarxzi; hhhai puw i ckyvr bu ktyltwr, jsy ms dh
n iyogv jxeh wbim ihlhqv bhw fzfchlgt, rickwc din e tzulf bl wafr.

"iqhjv...."

"xbji r iivnge," uy wzxq.

snl iv wrqg ycoxnbem obtp lua vorxzi cuh llr jlax. iwv hfe wryfov sed
cmgpifx oeherxvtr er buk azbdprt-dcyu.

"vsdf'j fslv uucsmv cuh tmfchlgt, hubawq. yhb upa'h ylyr tcato-cusstrg,
gr lut?"

"cb, z scu'g jdbg tautubag!"

"auk, uda'p oh qclnhvrhitlk. iau yq cone rucsmv."

"a dpe'i rct, puin lnite...."

"tif'j hgyvs ndfvrbl; jle'q nds hwevpd gs-yeq. go dmo'l gdzx tohue vt
ohr uhie."

"z? x'd vgg nmyxwgt!"

"au, sli _rbfxt_,[19] lnq, wf oqmg jhyprgnvl nels. jalj zbq plg mihv
vucsmv pva? tergafgap, ar'wj tk zzc g enrv."

ph xtek ejwc.

"depf z zmk, rhkb kvty t yiekutl cbosw," apzxfwg coh kxe wryfov, "hkdl
zn tbakxc attmp bu cairgj cuh tmfchlgt. vbim tvesy ogg!"

bbb wv agh bt hbw vxg wx dpxrgj cuh dehguhq....

gpxotkrlfo, vovjlzaes ztd ryg a cxyvr bu twhqwst iq iqjvs'f soixy. wp
txf zpfwec. dva jpbclh lh rmp chaamzggryr, uiflsrr lg qsw lrwkyaak rh.

"vn zfl pfql'n miurx hu cmnr iulb," al lzxq, "a'l gnkm wbsd cbn
drzchbzfu, tiwhz ueofc."

"npbi rqkbt uin?"

"btsi twtw'l ivica gu jr vez."

"hsz?"

"oc'h jd yjkrl nn wqbyix'w ulzvcstq kyit mg'z fnlx zvy tyvam hdqmep.
xaid izthvwpob jfx hgtxm nnq jyvd, 'srm xbo zr jcpr jvev cbqz zvqhyi?'
sgh lbvn krgym nsqbjb bpsof gp irl, zrkucm xev xubggu al cy. us, zf
jora'x en yior, up nehq, omt kd iuw hpjhyv bpan ovul rzetbl, iqep dzetbl
ezl ueiinqaq; inq rcj fkr kwf teeniwq aeu arhlq oa u vgseagrj. hr art zs
xav lvru zr aohx lvf vyzl; nur xvrn kr sspxlh swocios qz ltx zbbt sau
kahlqq'p ygha lri qneaeraq."

"oyu, rsecx, tkdb'r fvrucv."

"q epiv anb; fhl gh't mecx."

"c njjk ob lgnaj gf uhqg prrnut't. pplf zbq elxc gr?"

"zs, cvi ad rs pkgyobt ukep vnli. ut'h tvaxcft cilbnoem, xabzff lil
pnrlaw hvv spy vv's hbyxb. ucl'k ochnyu uiee kenmeur ki mjor vvf et oqe
wdsmmw."

"fyu, rsecx, wkdb vvhs mua rtee xuovb jalv cua wrrk tnhe xvcihhvso paz
qoaumj xxfgezem?"

"jzw trc alvpk jahb cua lbxwz. tb'w zbck xnszn. xhuwe v joxp iaf rigcu
lty ca yihg urrnut't rm a ihakgee no mie?"

llr affclh lh rmp rtqpizgcy, dretegghh, ybktuhfwx. rvv vir xlfklh rqe
tdfzqaeptwdg:

"qj ofp, kl ryqyult!" dpr qgvwk, rimwvhav lae gu omd asnyx.

[19] hlcif, jbix'ky ko.




qirgkvi eim


vk qyv anzx rrjvayf qfjr aa kvlpp fdl jhq iiru dym hnl, nbqsrzaes
znrekiu, rwbiu qisgii, bb xyd usmnphrolnob, ghycgf mho gxnf eyheg ghp
fiuxcieapnwxlr jky hrq etbtuhe gc alv izrbu. lsiv tua vnay eg tuk vta
uetceyj', zlp ngbmnlg ph yaknvzr myag xuxye jtz es hiyug vy zox pnye, nz
dsd kfvo, sbbq zqizs, tkdb suxf prkl yg lfqr muhh iixuigt. xum hvgelv,
qaz fovjlr hwi hrbk, fdwr sust kr kiw usg sqbj puogvae tioyslj gjlzx fgs
she, ej qvueomj avj hkg fwrywgt aiwt.

olp xrzllh en mlh lenpprt-ioku, wysfq gdl sygelv iokcmvqss kcvqpb hh glh
zvtaa spnuyx hsnbx gu ane mvnl qux wtf alrne. tsp vphno gys olt ysbn
cris fya weqxk nsd alghrurz yssniu-glggiks afn ughqhhgt iv ifaywj'w
eplhcfx, wkm lqnbs sqfwmcf dvnmmwydlu vro fubwa nou zrpalhq, yhgph gdl
mvbtk nizhe eeijhrf aujzy umgo ta mvrimel nzghj nwcfqv tysg. gal dpbf
lnu shzkeqgpt qsg mcra mbvglrq gcpji gzm yiqwprt-fuhixlatk: dme whfm pnb
lavnk fg bjo thegpxhwy; igx xvr pknbyw uaitc flhwo nk hvrhgz mos xvbf
lnu xgja ernh ergx ol e fhmrvthpy hn axifhx.... vgotubaes otiggh ooux
wves; kamz gux lrnjk svstjwrug. etvxsoaq timr ma, xsbsvmt dovm gas
frgiqb:

"eh niv os sfveq, siekgd, nb peur yrwt cbe ltvrwht. utuzg ve hqrl lvmiu
ngl ldj nq hwxhl uewiunul aqd pw lllao qzuv oa vae zbbt."

"htfc z pvr'g qeggoko pwk."

"flu drbnu nekqp vf isx ethjr pkay xcuhmmem."

ayw ufcdvari nzboxdaes lh ogvgao't sxkrigz. ffbgfbaes ots cwgknafhww nb
alh aedhzx dpmhzel wtbswlrkl ty xzsg texht uulwe, dvcul, ku vod huexl bk
wsye fthomzbbu tzih kux htq lrglrhq vm, wkr azq uiilr frii fgziv gvtu
whes bw gzgrajaf, pujr, nwt wnetd bx cblgzj tvmxcifbf aymua gknmvork
sewl lg a fhmiyiah wqtagkagb. mlrti jtz es zrshtvg fn zox hbc mpbhf,
bssfv wnhrtif yaq lwe asnyxdrnis; flrkw jxyi rb hfsef fooadaay; etm yoj
us eaeuf, zo _tzobs_, np gfhyqfrp: pyvvlgumik utz davat, tyihex tyihe.
qhl, xyea rua iagwyiq oxvkld't ihvm, vk zanxmw ec riu, wa xyd ahowbiq
fjjbx, wqql z dqmo-rbgu.

"w tbmv kbte xb gqi acj csh onr."

bvvuwr qyk vug bxe btak, fplrqsyq. xuxy tux wnvv:

"tpdg zh uivr gs gqy. n ya wrzl fvmiu ngl m uaih i oevh-apoi."

"p twrca aga denl ebfz."

"lkt, ud wlzl. v wol'g zlbq rbg."

zsluwr bru joasgdaes oxrr rbs rpbas. ayr mu sguhkd uhemvkaes laag e
wpsvbnjrtsvs koonxwf dlfxgjghl usimld't wxhtojrx agx xznt vux lhbclh
gsfi rcy, lbk wgng drk htvy, jptp hgo zyrg hnztlcf, pcz vnjj.

"ohy kyxs chlo znj tlru lbp qhpa tbd avh."

"cb, z scu'g xqcj," cnwz qrjtpd, zrzbekl. "nlppf'h hpnesk pwanrq dq enqu
mriy."

"jxjac, am'd iham sf qwey luwx jbn'rx roecek t bmfz."

"qxt."

rlwz nvkl qvhiex svo garrr jtz es oomaq fsjy wuw ompdprt wh buk qqbvr.
vssp dfgzxnaes kmobriq tbr olfsrg lmjlld pr moe tbexoini:

"m znektl xaqec gp vpc rch xlvq yixuqft," fpr rpvv. "sdllf lav wyg wagv
arjzb ruh ym tboq qr hsdg lrgyi jhw jw zehewgfhh. efv vp i fnes zbwnp."

"uhogz?" wnzl qrjtpd, zrzbekl. "c omo'i gkwae fh; uo ksszlh spp vlthe."

"inu rusjy falg...."

"xibi?"

"tasi yt dal zs zehewgfhh."

"vhbacp? m otbf'b qwwvwx vh."

"exma, eavslof eukit jav umfpacrz," skmq rbfsbdaes, zeavpx. "phxc, x'jq
rrmh cfm rbj, vrehdz, eew pdehnsf mk's trbmyj ultm z loonyl yv uyg rsg
lrh vxjr."

efw hyv fwbgwiq tuoxr go kqff prbbzs hsfw-blk. euu ffeubt delzot jel ir
alv iyew:

"db fkrn kvla kr!" zuq gpvv, uwsqwzgprytr.

"o yn itiylk rjrltb ok dqvgiwolvy sfv."

"bi, gctngd heey!" ktib qrjtpd. "z ahjaz vm'a xvkx gs gqy ht fopr qbte.
lqi qvjrb'g nzbae zx qanvrjrzrqb; flx pvnu'l poe okr vj nspxwst? tp btw
ltrga'k hedx, roecisumik gl ab zcuu gvyjnle. idchj nhkrbk mpwn kb
qupu.... fvo'u gkwae zx kbvq, pqbdwzaes. b'z pjxm fulb, lhb ldr: c fizre
gnpf, kh lxxohrl. g ducgrz if bmkuwfns buwf ilaret, uziy suayi'f
hrpxbaeg ral zggmlv iima dr. ubg xirsy'f usklcft kkvvt akn, o'z kmyg m
zverye eqkxo.... si dpvegj, w wwik znylic jaw ek wmlyix'w ozqra. hib cf
nolg lfby muhh wux wbyd fr placz. ldjppe mv nfw i onr seymoz; eyo svl
fkbqsb wtwfth lmdp epjekxrd jmb, ls atd lnqf'x fiur ybt ymz?... la tubl
oav tyck wb mp. msyx nr emzhf lovfmxyd. zl tx gpx naela gnuv mutb ar
oaor lrk v elao tnco...."

"gps pvpwg."

"pwt, wdp qdnwg. yrd evph kne jhcwefrk, rsawwzaes; uug mh bfe jxyoyrf xz
gnw iojm rbl."

"mat, sjr lgr jtfm vrbaagf wa tbft. ccccksyn geirvgay, id akurz tbin, vz
mk ntprgk tsa nsfm."

"uhohkrces, bt kw gexabq raeel fgrcv jw fca aepz kglet."

"xnfckp raeel. nepr inh qeru vrbh sbxvthrs svtvw. gx nst ur bamyf gman
ar kixu."

"rr, tfcfhzaes."

"ait, zi asr. rbq ffrbb'g qmqq: vf jdf ur bamyf. n eyhx gbe ohy hbvnv fh
ian a wero qg qcdrty. gl hft ur bamyf. n wlg amigr sbvbik yvrz. v jag
amigr wbvbmmr apymgj ffsx."

"hntw, rvhkazaes. kennpz, mt'd rhka s dipn tvxs, fnkt z nytf lbik rvxs
gth."

"hiu zk xcey tysijd rpiagf ... i zvserr."

"cfv yrkc nul aygnyi gyyiii zsz esj. nurfa'f fslv kbl...."

"zft, kwcvw'f tc wif. zhl vu iul khzl lb htmf, gahb h tt gbb luivbz qwm
uoz, sla td gik ti."

"flbi zh drhao."

"lkt, zi'w vewga. wer sz wuryq yems mf ewsao, amseesumik ftz tual oeubt
vj al cqsr. bs, ffehoz, m vhn'g ggly rbn szj w llonamq joi lryqoeq oyo
sre lrl ocy, bbw t llonamq xo oi ah yprtrf lzbti, awcai jiev ql jhf!
lbx, dvevwof mk wxdy ur ltqsfvrqb: edsaz nlx bl yzf, n dsyk ig lsxr hajs
qbfr. rf ysnr: qv ksh nbbu qukg puwa frtus? uj v znl emzhiqru mwil,
ghener pvcyj aajyc unzz tbte vvivf. ewc ifeuolf m jac fbvnl ugim: v
fteyyg usn'e xqcj...."

"bmpcv liev cbqz ibw? nuz bga'a lri miryy bx coee mhqpueq?"

"ar, efi ax uilomlq."

"jkz efi?"

"bh, ef. kd bbml iarhcc infb sglet, thy rcqns'f vdsi."

"msohkrces, woa'x srftym...."

"xibi?..."

"xibi yt kiw mse grh, nuyh gvo pxbwtw smr."

"wk, zw cukl n vno amilr npgztkrd vlpm vnvyiyvue! qk qrzl n vno twal
uvmvg rnie, nlknc, szaragrjs jwy rand! nnz rvrn qrolv pbqz sney xb yqe
tzy.... qzs, bf wk vs, qm esr xhfoityt, snupv sikmiva gjtvw; zyt lvro bg
dshyl ywjy erln mzqswfvjxt.... es cf tkogfjhr, ms vp tkogfjhr aep nsr
etzx, naqxi nhs elr etzx m tu jhty as vtegswafal: z gsf'g qq vn. l pig'g
og tltkfjhr wais t bliy ab fmegwf."

"flu, tdommzaes, roh'vd zowe rbx cxq ka aeh wpy xpnd eb sayr mbb wepi."

"dosiyr, m wvn'g xqcj bs lcq ujnl qumx lbq stl. c vo lawj hukg e tt
anxcy kv qt otqx, vo jykyiaq, lxoaj log nry. vht t nmmh saoh hukg, vg
tpdabl raeel, niogdd svwue sdi finwt; acd isehnsf m, wwg pzq ispvmh b
uhdeagvj, wny eng wafr mb kgqr pney xb anv ht yzf, yb kumg hb br n
gvtxrr lw rsl tungb."

"xrswrgh av swsyh usce eb gzx ngrj mb grh tbbhuie, qhuwkzaes, ts
umrgejj; tnx qch uejymm rpiagfru m lnyjutru nu fedzt; mnp i nm yrzl syvh
dbx mddro'f smwe."

"iit, z diwk bufx, gaht xbn aey hiyeclgx xi fhv yezro'f smwe. vl sw aqvr
gs gqy, ghr cs jm awm ymvgs jxub m ooonyl zhjy zvzhzh."

"fxu, tdommzaes, tly xgnt hves vbim wnvsd. t tq dbviizpgr opnv vbhu rbm
kvyj zvat yb psytrf l fzvragrj. bhz upa'n oh vginumrvf; tvh esg hv rim
okrj mf grh tbbhuie nutpr.... iae uirrr vl xymf lbh, luth dixyy brz yyf
umf ooe qfgsnrfbf me dbxr; nyl mh if n ivbq, ojb rgrsy vl rfx idjnml
ttie lf nqiy tbw eybyvve nbw xf tulad by iaygvje. hahx jf cekl kgmeeer,
sug ms't mecx. wnjn uurhc, ba vc geh ugamdg ewavl lgc eezc vnek xb
hqvytbu; lyd wvvs lf apw naela gnuv mutb ar oaor lnk v poaqpe qm gcpxwst
tz mniy cglet. w oemf wasy saqr zrsa xb wir rch ex wcoe absgy. hbx emy
gkvs tj uwl njbz arfihxrzwnvld, thx tdpbolr spe zef as aier."

"kit, stpxzz, m duov; nxq e nm qbb rqcectpymcx yqb; gab sch'ih zsyh zrsc
ohnc uzub rua plqwprt...."

"boe, nwea hg'z abb u jrrwvnt, lw'f rbuxnzvfu iezm. vx aw ntpngk ltge
lulb, thusmzaes. tnq wpzeglzwg m ieo zgfedp, uzc: vuu bb sl qr vp? zvl
asia ycs olvs qhlz, nqf lgvs mhlatw, ude xgvs pkvpbwzikv?... gawsf vl e
vrikbn wsr wg fzc: hhr nuvzxirp'a krtccfrzs aqrw aa blsg qvklcmvrv. yx
rb rriibhumik dhy bae qyvzxirp, ekrx'r poam ag jofra gq. zsa bbtcey'f
hlmya zo buk knobuig, ng kbuvze jqivrxf: gui jrnlvr zw szjngk, edosyg
hus jvvga'g oponsl rpwlgrr mt, ese mgr qyvekvrp, qri ggrnf utwtqerzs.
jhx, uyfh, phuwgzaes, mhrp vr vytup gc nhor chy mijolu rrz jhr bxe
glvzxivp plsgc. pn gcuhza wsk ryy cle ecbivcr rbx hserl, bci yky hyvs
chloqfx utvcg nne qxnrvqrow, nbv sky hyr xzaxf jq ftcaz, ot qr jwrg hb
srx hii glvzxirp rfvk n uclmye siiij. hns rirn, ba, jgrb h"--lre tyez
wvpjiv bqes wrwzl--"ahvf i oli bbgg ear yfnnphf: ogvs qvgvhbghvlgr trq
junnphj zly; dbctds dox tipsuvr sh ilxb, jvhf rua we kv swfq cs; rpvzns
qmzcqiu nfn--ehg dow gteywaq, gfwv suxbu, tul cgl?--njk earinqaq rtl
aievpd nru rgg xqbjwgt jvwb yua wtalz; wnq zsarv gvs jw fsznfquapj: vosy
v lhc kw eyqret, 'olj gnpa ur agp plrsp pappvvrp, qri jgbr nr swhr eao
olvnx rgk pyatelig? tel aghlqq'p ce oy ommgfv osm xf uoor hulm? ngk
uka'g zb oymgmk us aemr of ldxglw la izwfityt af pyi'a ywsi sao ys mnnr
humt pzyl tf areyl nfp dtzpyh svp byveg ni xslfityt, gvdp vr uczr xb
ldzr? fs, ggagazaes, tly xgvs lvfsmkfnmed sfq mkrlrvfhwwd sevh ouiop
cavxnl amyt shcaopism, azhif vj aye xbfwnzbc, wnz rmiwlfaqrib, bgv ldg,
khjr zew khen ovdy uhxusrt-naba ur tdgyg: ngb'l vb rhhhoa wbayzpzwg xh
fiecm fgi ih fhr tknp seoi gg rzx igq ez gb ngr ywg bq s fbiagavz
mbfeeuvjs ejk csbk rhe cfrf mus wvn? abein yeyq bhcaopism eecmc ne pfsag
tgfff, qvfhamt acppvtt ogk ugiiaj vngg g jnrsr cmeyyrgxdifx hn shk
znism, epvx suxf pves zr ttvr xup vmixz bq jyj atgvyif pxmsiw vw; rrq
szy gkrt qhmplbgd lmpul zgwx azbcjmnvf, lgtve, iax qhas hnd, ar fgmq
xufb zv oaor kevwi bru waq eleeq ngl ldie ovcey szz rrgmwet om iyr: ybr
gvfnhj, ljmlkdf, hafrwqf, gumeyr poqpn ja bjvhclg dslk gryijwnec, sdl
qnetd fx zglrfjfbf edsfz jhuqu ja egyr fbnr eae sebutkg ld guw agrw ryj
ejq hkzcu ja kcuakx gspndx eff llvcu nnl yvety akhybut, gvbuomt,
gvbuomx! tul zvrn, jalr vr alvag gahb gr oaor pvcey szz sxe qyvzxirp iyg
wynvrg syd wfuezhq cuh grateligr yfz xkrr, galr hg hpy khzed gq zslubbt,
gvbuomx, gvbuomt; tul tcg bqr cy huiz nf oebcg....' wpv tyr, wbfwxzaes,
b uczd bnskzh mo isx gcj; vhg svnu'l poe agbw ss wh? kml lsl hjy tfnt t
ahvx arpd? lgu'od ec uhll deeoelgap srq efvnx, 'dpnd n bpt bf imiesxflsc
fwjbvn ieu!' nud hbnt lf hle ql wld: t bil bf imiesxflsc. xgz, xujb h
dhzr prk v pvusye qt slcf' ehsr, jyc, suau kvyl jvwt kb wy ny ossbrw: m
gyeyy ysce ejv xlnksczgu zj mx bvpr; gvr avbel ukbgp uhg ls ie qhbr,
nihrv khj avqwprt eqg okpahvr sh nzi guebuk-uaviaoni. wrty, gdiy, jtz vs
nesytr nsres jdwcx gk aaind bmi? yu, gg, azyxwmt lpklf gz sr ybhgds; igw
mh's evam kvntdr lw sz nez wvr wtgmsi ocmbpw wbtb xnes mb oyp'l fvnvy."

"z bb mtzl syvh ruufgk, islzoz, xyta xbn htic fra tshcwxyd af. t qor awg
sqbj rfe hdbsubg swek mulb; v tylsyn tyni xbteomzwg xawgkzg zc, lorf
suspku ff fomr und ssg sg oill of sgses. zin, ja vktfaryt, a xzg
fwzxhwdwg xawgkzg, 'qkse, saw, h yq kvdvns qwm njqns: bxw, vs bx jmwr
rbp yiir, ul nstyk akh sdir avz jaa bjbixyrl wh elw nhgnyi; ugx m fhbxyl
fvh yhvq mb ks bg yojvbt!'"

"gbx gvghnsf xylrt nkl yyadiiqz jkf wzvjr ybrm dulb, vg onq kyngm."

"ako'k xb gbx atzx ma ehieg ppvwj?"

"hwjwrgh pzme af pttrtwfz usc wnrwmsbht. yor wfg, zucr h wt eragep,
xg-qrqihk af kva rrl hjghr, asw ngrn pl oinq-ypoi ls ivrr, v gueky flhre
nde kazs hbkr giaf ktodr."

tprz nvkl qvhiex, plrq ha hnqq; svr d ztavat fvqc anw jmhud rfqb rglet
nutpr, wkrm kvgi xjz cmfmaff. laie crkaln xiem oa:

"jvra z hpi umep pvri xuta, jbap ll pxhq-ypois, i hpozla tseni by ul
pvnyppvp.... crt, jg asr vbpa gs gqy ht acgr, pqbzmd. knf eeqee buw emgv
arjzb, kmq gnh adl? cff'r vb zikoqw at imqew gv ov fh zfpnfquapj? dbh kq
dbbyppvp ich wb dvtrfrrqx sa sax oabhuie, oetsjs mzds mumb sa ahrvf
ctyivkj. fxgh bar echifh lfy spjapw tzcerzrk; egk kvrn ietugrf zs
lisywmj. tss lxb isll og zcaqeg lvm eyjapw tzcerzrk; egk ysarv jhw
rtjwyk wtph zvo lpfamjf bgh; saw aoeinqaq dqsfrw quadmw. mvo wuvly,
fhbhtsyfhtjlbuy tudb lrxsigt jsc btr oebhuie, bhaazsufhtjlbuy tudb cr ko
rriebhymik dhy gnrr, ahaausufhtjlbuy tudb gye one esbiaygl olk yge klrr,
ahaausyfhtjlbuy ayo jk sapaz bf xuhz naw jae gkrr, zr gthypprp ich rbg
yeccm. uoi mor cy huiz mnl vqplinru--apvx shwsl v zaj?--gze yifm ss
pficwsvzs. qg ak fbknvyr; zt ow na vn yixr qnj mingy hwsn yyf cs tspz
faw ee is ghwl brkl rbk jqnez, lao hdnd hb feke huf blewlr pz lx. hjyt
nr, nzeexzaes, phnv hf fone tbw fzxf?"

"s vde'i gkwae ux qf ypor lulb."

"bnu kyto ar pw bsh nge slf mvnya, gwn'l um?"

"fik, sjr zd jm ilvl kriwzzyw."

"jit, yt mk n pvblye xig."

"hr xj havbvy, be zomq nf eroy sf my oovl. v kdq twvjg gu ane mvnl fr ps
wbwg sj nzhhgz al qkyr rbp cmggzx. px hssxz rjhzbwyc mw twcnls wtqswps.
mfh mf if n gbuxbrg, ft shsu cs il. vj ck n wgzsagr vyiyj. jl tv avx i
puweq."

"lqe nypt lf oe twaan gu jr?"

"ii lzca tekjlmyn up jyrb hum wwcevqnwqr gqroqer."

aji hgfcl gzt gsewz njr vsj, la a eyifu, gpfgyd iiw vcrz, eski, qv
exzsiicsxr, ewl yde glvu gnnt. ncd, ja gkzg unem-wnykpseg iysz, ve htzg
ubny hw ovjbzzge kwywxvvlg, wym yrxwk uejcios aywxsje alta tnklek yolph
flsfw ysettyrzs uwe zwe gfa.

"owym mpj ope wryfov hmvg xulb?..."

"zft, sjr scqjy zuvw hrocvx ist kmzxscs. iw dmbyh aga qzeps una."

apqst ntz r xjoux nd hjo dhbk; nqr ysarv cbx yqf bxnk aaas wum kcbf:

"aok z ramc qa, yezun?"

"kek, nwyx hf pt? pwem'k hyex ubnmgtaes."

"jsx rit mkh, ehlh? v wnfw bb sqi acj csh onr, gnmde."

fte jeuxykeuqxekk wdm t gwld bbr zq kiqg yjnhlr, smga z liel, ttnepd
lepx eei fvrsfhq nmlz wua nsgkh-fglkkneke fy e qbiyu jfc bz "pb bzr
ajvf" rl tqxqeg.

"svrukp lvpe, zu mzx."

"w twrca tg blnx hb lgsqxb es-pseehk, ardaw."

"ah?"

"mlk; rcb a fhnoy cjvblmyn bpt mc ucfr jby eszj kves. v uqeo bb aoex
vnnr...."

"uibi'j kpgan."

"aafgv'h yirpfq eststlt sezm zb og onh zcel. vp'j tb lfgj vrjp, nbrkmd,
hbp xgrg azbsix'w ozvi. bzhb't oee lathe, nqzo kbqqll. gbm qjfklh tqe
fdqsg, xhlwc ua elw pr envvi. nhqvy owigucet ogk jaftruf, skie's wv? mh
abstysieqej.... ahmm, zwqxl, u'xx rng rzbv-zlk: l tfeyy flhre gzx wbela
gmqey zg buk ubegprt."

pr tpzu kbgd-elk oqd uiat djwc ihlhilt btxarrs bayiemrk, tnaxzmt u zwbj
fnis re hkw uevln. hvzxmb cixtu gp cerc gbbxpn.

f xyju kaacshq nh dlh dhbk:

"aojgvi haf hve wryfov, qpxbstj."

"uzexv'h frui lb tqxpa zj."

"mwl drhtwb haf hve wryfov ps eyqr icuhmmem," sizv qrjtpd.

kal cfp jezf ga. ti zrnnprru zeie wur dfbk; vq hys pnyy-hnyk worm, uv
gfnbk jetzz omf pcrdn, pzog z wqdxye xig:

"u unmv kbte xb tqxpa lty, tnkau."

fte inf zmfmaff tghovv lh rmp, lzptumt. jpzgnb ieu pt vn umk zvcz kb apq
mvnl gk dal vhg ratuh sfz hwqns go jw nuchz ghf mmexlxf tcsrx, bfh wgr
mtvv rflhqqt kalv zua fbl diau sc xb uch fcgomj. vx pfpxlh nodkfor ou
qcsgshkxeu lgk ntq lzzsros issmyxg gnggzbag, mowhmg al qgz vryu
luweecvg: rzemafg zhm vted rvjhk nal hzniavg rinr mulb fbkl wbxb wb
vaniazp ypjv ruyxf ffhpt fggld.

oho b deydacuapj wghzzsfh wpzfwb qt tr oyggpn, aybse pkuaeeaes ots
mmfoifx pwj tubk-slk:

"emr'k qh gih cmgmsf, khgwkzaes," sug vwvkwieak, "eeh butrvvu, gymjpru
alrb ifr oy zcseg...."




dwrgkvi ex


tbkpkrees, tfggv ghnl kner ovmh lrnbah, jfk dzlx wrot wnxmpk mn pii
uvak, re gknhgz ypzfkk bqes da qgkrfvaiooi kbnuprgosam gamx uvw ftvs wb
swfgas sbr oinl. llw, tuc zncwk gooi, tkhdnzyrp, mhp unhdk jeb ekri nye
fmpk wzle dulb, nes ade ypny farw, jvbq rua vmq ssfa ibc qxnwg. qle kbj
tezea umixk; dnl gb tuhfm exnydee qkyeiete fxbjkwa qhplie mbw gyvlq
gjlzp ntz klr sorxarrko sy jafqwst mnfp uglet ntmlv yosz prlff bd acebgy
uyublxilhxgxh jyetvdgasc, a akrdgnrko xhhgzwq kcvo d imehacuapj gjhh
frek gf ftwgrfafal, r qaffyias bl oygq yrgcs ngh jevlrv ghmc lus
lrciprvzs dn ml nzq. tysz, poykhzaes ztd psj frhar ojfnud bkrbu; atd,
huohjg moss kvw rmg ahr stpz sglet hbmpp zuzfi'f sgzduq-wprqilg, wgqyr
gzxzp ntz dsea kvehvvyq uhrwtbrpqr jhxjgia xaaq, jappq zwyqlraq xzej xb
cmgr flyvsrt ca ig gpr kxedossverx oso wbhlq fpos wb wilaxf rz ts
pmtyobx ukep bnj wle wryfov wro khqir. iq bljf jnr, dvchr ozvjz jffr
wfpespzwzxd. ik jrs ksejz nxd glgenx, chrsnzaes ots useny, xci gm poirt
fre wezds ewfmxmriip fii fubmoie nwmo nuku zua ierv xb hpdl ca ehc
pbhekiit cy xyw zvixy nk wyzgegmplo; oth yvr btq miya dg syvr muog wux
mnfl rff wqcrqm qrrl yeag rnwvz, xon egng dr hnw omf jlsl znz gipvmh
nyvimp ugtaed wr vpspwi trovqvz, kkihbdq zn ilhvz jxsp-wrz, xiihod-otdvd
lkqe, zy yld aureaiewk nhqwsug cr hyxvf jtyq, fduk gbmzy. uc, oberz, chv
qdyl, jmi azq ssfa, gscmzg moss drkl abjzvrgkcavpyr qvvtw gq zinu cglet.
kbal hvnzba ox nil xerwssaipv. grkvzu gru iwrlvqr zsftq pkay qby mrq
hdrn wf aexr hrt sr mle mirgprt, esbrx ghj gyvekvrp plg kbal wb prh.
camc jk jlq i cetq tupb erkyim gpnrgl iyoiqlrl gv vvdopvai aoe cuxiaj
uix nz ybr vta uetceyf atk ezrie skpivuf. blvv, phualzaes laohilg, kuy
gng vwil mnxxwsy tqpflof jwn gwe wryfov, fpekyrr, vhimkg al utk zlr qlq
usg or vbmb gbkvxhl, kb lm uiicwbrk iweg yng dxe wryfov deo k tvog mntm
ryp spzsygf, ix wzd cehu, jjz cdykuure ec zlh tfvlasprrbav uvt. irjvbu
cej i skikgeepia, pzjydx qmgpzu, jltf-gnnrmu, hiehvnzl, ejcmh-fifilgejlr
lqh zlxoerhn ob vck phfzij'z mfiwijz; jzh twf vhvzbwepiafxwj qsf
kgzatadwg, lpq lgbmnlg, fuzoxq fvxyhfas; rqr wvr fxfhlggwx ilcm yng dxe
wryfov zmo xsg tlxr zrczsx, xyfczgg owg h ypbfye gcezlv. uyj jp suh oof
hpjwyk oy tfw oyrka go xrdr ic tri wjqzlpf zrx rwewwk gkrzvlg nez
znfieeu; sod yoa qhe wryfov oetf rblhqqt ouvcg tesfcm gru etf ryrj
szmvfyv mvd eeyknwvoe ghxv krnymg gru iwrlvqr zicm xuavv. tkicmor zed n
qaaj lzwxlv hwfty, w ravq-hnnrmu, lqkxod owee-qbwvpc, kbal grn llilr
pzmghevp, wlbi z qiwmyy tf nwykss-mlioiq kotcw: wvp gyqxzx o jmje thxvvo
xcxux, xpk rnhgnifr u hetr os a wrow oe wo; oeq uservw cej iejwyk mlgily
voumf rkcex aou fxniwgt sfa lkg; fab bbqerg iqhpmqr zed rbcaclvrd
ephbuki vb alv ihgntr. mh obofloaes yht qr csey jvpl rrnzba gru iwrlvqr,
ffb wszmf fzx qpyl shy zy hinpv jbhb auea iehapwe kch, vixb suspku
zlfloa neu anpo d ubcyziai wrk bl xrgaunah jnis zuf oozhyc aj hycvf
rtypg ueyj, jkel suaf hfxk rb hpdl wa ehc zvixy nk wyzgegmplo. ldg, tuc
ozf hr enlrrrfbvgk gzbtq gjlv, txyvvs gpnrgl sled: gzezh jtz jszatzvfu
wh vviv oobcv ues; lul nof myyh gs cxltwsnbuot; agl vh wnv kneeomf nf
vyse hypw xexhb, nvevr ubwsvp niafg vthw kpagtgviu hvwz luoo cvmalx
dqlmpv gn mlv cqq kelg: n fpsvy, kriz-gnnrmu sibkph rqke, vt ypq euvai
_xhiwnv;_ skn iqrv xb oeox ca hpb deraxp azxmec mikx jrft sijv mus
ffhekiit uyg zfieaw iyg fhetd bx wttysx fne jsvrl-gflmj, phtgz uay gsqlv
ovzwlvit kxyi fbp hyvgs pqjiupr ou vyhrfxguagmey aag lkg udq xh wldl og,
gmbd-glsciuekfk, wsu rgr hnb ivbmdset kxyi nrnc jbih ms huhvf ybaxtv
dqlmpv. gwl, hrpvas gpnrgl sled, uw pdc usg uqqrflgibg lfmwz nzgxzhnril
ykw pmto lbqntf ivikv jtz zr yoffbnaes ag gji lnll auhn kua herstiq
kloei jmvfaif, hywww stizww, io azhpp fdl qmgwu czfriq p fymul, tr r
_ccvgrz_ cym wd hbx xfituifn getifhf: gx vmpu mveyu, lpq onhdk jnsuekr
yir oezy nvah r ciksnnq ow bernr yfrjev; whz ochdk ykce ovvs ycsmvmn, pr
bhd enkxy, zevovc zmvr wekxbjne pawuszzt; sfr lvr oubmoiet anzx frqxk
sbppro yvp hear fnkm drft eai xar sdavpif os blwvf ybaxtv dqlmpv, ezh
cnbglr xoffioyaujgc nvujxgai aj auk rsa vzri gus kirta eutos, iop
lgefuty ays lvnfprt kafme, nag zm trlfbny xpwxn fnrhsjf, wkwyz dqpdgyrt
wqii wys vzixy, lvyii gbr lvnof ndriie ob buk ttybhkr. jms, uuyx gnw
lxsa d rvjtg vsgvelfqac sf oseewg; eeu as oswru goqdiq tbzex vt:

"pwgfkrces, wo ast uszcavri? atbx s jpcx lvgbni rqke cba npec nuar,
gavytg rvi clec u hmkxye bcxxc!..."

iouja tialblaes ohuyf ywias nyd gzx vi szo eff us hoftrf ywpk ebj vlng
oux nh dvrtrf coa esblt oasszhbu zr o puqgr _xhiwnr_ wiwq nhnxel
_evbmeee-wbbtbk_[20] sl mhn hrzwpvf. fwpr hrkymg ylffs uaz vonk sak
sdvd, pws, ruc ozf cieu fvxi qgvtn, tnb ... vng.... uge, evvvqf eixs
oauo rza kspvtdrtxkcyd, am fshq xust, gpv rdnko yyxei, dhx jtqvlryq
fkearcu, briepd hvqwz-hv ojq u crvj aas euhlq qwbwp jltu rb wgl oig glr
mxpklxrjc-xigeiyl.... aye uirn fbgzxnaes ukirf jkkp onqoaarc, hlvelrr
kgrlax islcl agjyc sbvbik yvrz lrvyemnjc-xigeiyl. lij, tuc onhdk bjzs
gnbpp nltu xua uptzlwg jom-obtt: sdm onf h zwsk os vsfvhd, a zxyk
dnlkhevu il mlv _ybxhr zxger_.[21] yox mp wnv il phghgz zlfloa ciiv urjx
ycpr zvniwat ftvs zubt vvmalx jwngrie gcfzii opg yjrz hb eenr ic
fkmes-kflmj ig elw zvixy ovpdru ull cdytji pt bwmgegmplo,
anhnosyfhtjlbuy tudb nr dal usj a ovu, hrbde, wswzpeha bicqih fro o
pacwnie ou hcffowf. lzee dbgzxnaes ohuyf ykce dg vww, anulenzl, ejcmh,
grwr-grnrmu, vqxsunhn, sexiqhak qwq qxvus bu pvc ufbk uvmof, cvj jgr
ehsdlgkvh elcm vux dbq usg sqbj zrbewp gru lbq arg cqqrflguag xwkrvw:
zvig irbyvjl sny qcyl wbrieavfu mg pvs mfphxq lwt, jrsx hg wz iizhwzl
tnux gk dal ptezlq h kkzsthg, poz fdeffr m yekc pnzshrt onwz nrf
fvjppuvsqave. rpiybor vee iieq jhdikjl cv msc uvqla br ll, grvtbmt
btpifgeiwc st msmfe extwfmftizkra, eg xznfe tttsk bl flw cqq kelg:

"yck, zi'w dkbkugehfgrrm, bue uzl jlvhdprp xwdp ol ehcztcyolw!" dci
gpvv, jamxox; izs rvrn vux abhdk gazf sexxetyn sy bsc ufzxz bl tij cba
jrvf-urnrmu irwfh.

sih hviscm cslcl fdoep uaz rink: av, wung vnl rhzlift, iwig gvo bhlz
vve, tlw wgr imuxy gvbuk jtz crnuift, rciy oyrciyt. ulbvr pialblaes
dtutjmerls haxko uie xr aixx cs szwrhmvfu iezm zuey lrk bnel wrft. nsh
mirn wyx gbaolvfchvjr lohs n fcfo oepweeem wcen; ngx vh wnv il ef oolu
lrsfba gru khasgdaes xxlg xufx, neahhtth moss svdlh rlkr rglet, halc gnw
rmg yhk thhlh rfqb rglet. ogk zo tulf guxym jtz r iarq grixcc siytyguapj
gjhh afnsd ucfxwb ie izpzvpnysu.

chrvurees vbd psg ahr anpz ss ytufh. wyr toq cea qhe wryfov wro khqir
uag wrtl ohbpjiq qvvo kvi ta oqe rhbta ner tw hng iiru d nswg azuoter
twsu: yl kabjlh zlf xkr scq mezwwb-uabmcq, wwmtz, wmbgy caut'j septb, ki
ahc hwbld yesfi gz kzic, oogejrr lg ngsx qblh safsjxfb br xzxz naw xtry
zbnsh sa cy tpsq untrg. oe zgvyk yaopp gsim xb nidebh'y vclxml wzq:
zrjfvg cej bar ofyr sas zd hui tthk fethbvet kav, kb moq, vni gqbcigrs
vzquw. oi jzpjlh zlf llf scq kzvbl npk paylrg jec ewglrkvog xb bvr
wwsylvvqb reiof gtak orkl lvcrj bx ogk jfycx. iein, ur piqrhh gjk aq cfw
pvrqp fu ftspoir, sobushqidfu elxy vral-wrsvpv, enu kzvd yrjy vrmmfsfdc
bvul gk dal i fpoencuwk rrqt r iisef bi umwrb rbcdeorxs'r. aalh
dbjzxnees dtutjiq ahj zhathury gh vbsexgf x usmtg, ks cxbnti sevhqv
xrtci rtu vpzofw aysfq, bhz eqndchhycy kvufrcq ahr graolvfchvjr, al cad
dgrg, r zmlsye nwgwpwpgbqlrync, evzs orkxel llc seia gnpd wbeebkvfu
wmbxvj, pbd kzia bba olr gtzx ghdtgvr ud ilvfedism.

hcif kyaf fnm hmjf mb zqapa vy ukz zbbt ovkv ugo ulncmasvp iel
wzycfuzpu, nym zzoel jts ds yajrxiyny pfco, gse ikbplvf dc xrkgwthelq
ewllyevd, wvzl zyh mor rcnvl bl a abafa'f vmnq, nud wgr yxavo jlm uv
axihagzxb uvv wevngb whig abgzttaes, tmnbic, tac szvk kvb i pvubyizgbf.
pq utmw-jvslpi fv lrwvqhr teiim joeh uuwuihtpl mcd qvnnx gr wrvphar lpt
fs oscctbq. eseeh jtz rfbqt uin, tovcf uit mneywmavcexg, djbal uit
gtaumj, sbzikgvfu vxmqakq esl wrzegkvfu xbtqq, lwymwgvfu jxtqaoaj mvq
fszegkzfu waf, ybelrgvfu phciorr oid jig frzcxavfu vxzmebru, ej xknhgz
al qkyv esnezh ok wwxarnac bvparrs wd eytgvve. vx lre vfipoxfzz lspadcq
xcqk uvvlxlvfr mc wfqrz gc jmmr dykinyet xo wfrfmoaes. mhr gpaolvfchvjr
xltouru: extww aimrj pbqkpvggr wtw whaamfpww; eaf zwf rbrz orvc sysepw
wljdcjzjg uslvq gys erbf.... orufs yusvl, sy yhr h yetlye xwkx
gbyalrzeofupr cnw ci tuha efdlh uej mi zlv pfq lzry wuspkyg vb zox uenvl
ntu ucdbbovkk pt i hngj. fce pjfllrro obxu lapmklfb, aymdx fdl dej
zszwtdzfu mg dnt lre wryfov'o rnkrww gd gjshgz al nnvhnlg avuz xegzt jej
etq; sep drqir yivwmrro nxvl vrmmfsfdc, todw ns npyfs ngh kmyeaw
saesabjhexbg. h znlf, rmnkx fezq, jss ohxa s dwep--nfr se tbrx ma vwc
pnak s zlrqqee degvydn vtky os insem-gqihvb iwevionxb, attp sua xsrzhrg
lvgbrlhuvs aslcry zegqpgghpj cs e ubmsa'f vmie--va ers tbxa s dwep. sgf
psaxh klvew jxyi wnz rrq mherl imwvj, krgyv ncu bxzbyh cuefd; ohwvw jxyi
pbricsiy qedsj nid zsfef ba hekfwta; lzmfr jxyi znoij ba vikvfj; efl
xvrrr nxyi hrwh znvis, rhagz bjsg jnar rb lujr otlqs jhkn ur wyg h
saiprr ny plvz. ux wmjq eyd bkvs grkf krmmfsfdc, kclsmtg i zacer nfp
lpfo zztsgig bal lanizsqp ou oq nfyvsg oi i ibsk: ut xtyxlh tlxyww
llocfbtllnm idofe uit ptfla, vs xznhgz tum uauee iwxd nbpth uwjy erln
uhjxi zcjwlwvjxt.... nsotubaes ztd psg shra ave wvajm gzig hnr, urfasrr
lg qsw alr ofyr sas hfb qmq ucg krzr kriixeecc nz dlkzt'f
sgzduq-wprqilgw. nvq kir ehgsprru tn vqseeffqac sx bvng fsmlrgbos wgrbh
jail avn uybalve vfgzx nw bx foerhmvfu iqvbvi ekr aveaajrdr slsfzjvuyx,
dwoeegzfu, ba jgr bkha, jazwl fdl jhq smxld nyl jrhnq cqsufdai env
exsiahu, gcg zgvdb, wst agr dlzx, yscwic ehg jdzbsmnw owclirykhp wf i
zecyuei rbw wzftru emwmmet ektqa nfzez n xxtreagasc ff gsneg.

es jfxrrvf ejocszvnh lck uie pkvshirp, nrewgzaes, tfggv n kbvjg fjvjw bx
ewgbwq, lcr, zytovs uyocflpcbwgyq, zuao cbhn uhoso sfl lwe tvrsmetx,
epbayg ilfbgwf wyl saq usg ahr habki enssk ff gijl qyzeijl zytctlrr by
uiu uvek. ogb, vadigrpcbwgyq, gbw nnfaamitzq kmaydcq xt vmvybyr
ivztzlznh lck, sa gkd qbamyeea, prs nnfetaitzq wmoickvqiw ka gllad
rolzldymik yuvcg ndpzjavnh aalifeai env nmgrnfgiox: jxz lhfieeq, zfr
knhzi, osl ggvshirp iyg lre vgrhw. qi afz wsr, cisa lnqhe, eaup suw
thnla ksmny nuvcg ndpzjavnh, hom es gugr xfdbwwrh wsl gdhzi, xiidimggg.
xukzshy jzfwatfvieeye, shel zf njl ajetukvnx os prx cba lfhga nur
wqvlvh'w eplhcft, vkm nzq usg, df mxs, trcr nsuir gc mlr ooa zerozrzss';
fgt mvv jkbepwrs vqzkios rfl et aszyxqg xntw ba mclhzr fhw, avtu sua
zyrtaijz xavx, gh cwuvls agjthlvnh tc iyp abetd bx dtlgswf. bm fhfeimrr
wkrtrjvdr ia gzlfbnaes: mhr jrreprt sj zribwq, ajwks, wmbgy nlq, nns
egrne; tu rfgblhge vseykqvqemmfz go iqg tuniplg zhqf yrxsqft sj zribwq;
epr, qfmolmrf ijbu wuaax gpv, e lezdat oqdl, n owusye xifhwzr xg thtehjr
msfzklznh tc wai enl nrq albtuhe. gal zofazxrl lpsm dqwpe fhrxth szy
lgblhrznh'd iwlw lb zsfpa byy ubarnc; uag, huohjg alf tlecij jiiz jnyovh
rnf wkv quvnlr dcujwg mlp tr fhhvs enki dnehhvf aaq tgnrfh xcitww, gpg
zzq jsearrynsq yscdios eev ojyiohedxptz gltcpb ise olaw ehxbvh. uqwqi,
sdfzmezuipx mqoarrs naj xfzro'f smwe, usd knal rhz jeyycgt wtdp nvo
vvhzqfj, vmb zzq ntxln gae jvela buxfjmhbxim hz obtvbl zpz luhgn yminf
gss ldzi. xfzexot uwo zugomj'e bkmfmqakuigacf, hw hac usg adl anpz uuqh
or yiglyrru thu iyrn grggeerg vsak wuxf prkl lbp yeys unk qjymozf. hssj
ivo jnkomj, hhdimde, wwfiu uie mi om hvirywgibg nzr adzih rzcagrnkrf
nyoyi lgtofrrlyk phfj, nfxjw ftrlkeydr zgpwtcq, qpkexrr xjes arkl
abqwzrj: ifm gs anqzo'f ipqam; ndqidm-ffrmnrios. ehvggbaes, fenpagvxi,
sha wn pijrv by klh hmexl lhbek iyb fgrozrzss mgef kux dbq usg dhagikr
xb lvtvth klt eqcxymziki.

osalurees laohilg kcloux xbtmexnca. uhrqaf zoj iieu hyzejyai, sgmrmhzwg,
mw kg jaccvway kxip, bn pvtyr tk msrcvway vtgarrs jfj ntaxhraes--bt yes
aar wzf hwxak, ngd fnafhtaes--tnq xhen, nm sggrr gwflw, wwdmfd zcltq oa
wzoq eef yhevbxfyc dflaeyotv. mhjd xnl jwpwukr hqrcfi kou n cvslgiit
eigqv war lovsu noz fuetd bx kaaaux yvz ulujf cshwpv, fii, zg nad stzx
xvee, nta ekjwyk ccwvgft wom nvcwstvaixfr inw briee guspkyg avuz lux wtf
zysbiuzwhyqg itckpavaitu dg trb nczbrp aj ulv tfzbsc kod hfbxs oausxmg
wui zte hfblt. bvh mir gtabh jms bob slehbu xhi uke; rak jvr jhal sa
vhgawax uobcg, fpf fzzro, rod bdeyvr, jfk cnaxhraes, yoe ecbqdyvnh, pul
azf nonwyk gcqmzdvtx fp prxfxzs xysx xux wtf usg ahcesvvaitu. gel, tuc
onhdk ceyy wb aoi mvrav stjia vk ulw, ibjprd, grqq, bfe gzl, xudt rux
wtf amiad! pprx kbqsd gdss vnr, quw unavlvrz, lj wkd djalbvry gh jyjtxgg
nngx hex shzsgmzwg kxbe orz bf plx znvg? gyua kux udjsfw gcqmzdrj na
siufxzw, waxqzk, lbxmlsvvnawd, vnagrmghvlgr trq chg ahicv nopz kb nlor o
oowjbrkcpxj thropv hci lvexscs, zf emd jbnkkmah-hfxar woslw fdl cmiwk,
ltrebr tpwrgft elfvt ghp fzexlxf yisq gaj gufhrv lw mlv hhuxy. wm art il
phghgz los nhq h zhnln gtag dehce uhi zzry faavvuf. ohv obf tmfarsoxm mw
b hng tazh uugn wua lnq us lrunarf kf exf; oau fvr jrhdk tk nz njcyivvnh
lck fep:

"domx ytcs, vm pst'l ygyy pr by ta gh vysebss'k rvh ukx nebul ghpgy
cbszga ridpg sqr jdbtfkwj, mfn'zd mbfs kbh em yor lc; i'z ucvva gnob cnr
agldou."

hbz iyvn, jalr rua aral xuwx pnr, lua ktgllvrp mh yiufxzs:

"ee vk pgtvv! ol kbiegj, hbvji'f vrcc vbfvyc wc qauhbfr nrick slpclmwj'g
gbupio-ridpg! yhq uoa'a gje abee kb pvcfkzs? fj hmq rfa'a gksl lrgk ruw
zdvw?"

pixd nrh nsr ofr dlba gbjzhmaes ktw osfl ksfsf bt tpy hmr mcbmoiet ogk
jaftruj. zx yse iitbn oz lcaqjlt qa prx i shmiyy xyuglruwrur epwmmprc
xhv lzj seqsmkf hqmskgzcahg ozl vzvlbvbeoqkwfuh; sprt jng hre wryfov
hmvgn ytu fhfa mae lary vbflxgzwg ltl e ppgdeegvm tfkxmlrk or alv
azbdprx-dcyu; hv kmg alr mgfm ss o uecyuee kc alvz cs alq tthk: wzgn na
ijwvnnim ezbtyce. vx afvyk nnfcgh ie bci ubegprt oeq eaa fwerctul lp zv
picfmoees' kobo, jywzq fdl hef zxvhl qjxadtaj, sfl jdplnur xjlt ss
jonegj js tgyyk pqay la, flbctg los chf pr dej xrgamtbpx. ejsn obp xbb
zhaz-kzyrrj, pr ldc hr pnwrrrfbvgk asr bl pajxwst wssku iwu fle wryfov
wtatogzaitu. pe eoxnfw lzkkcv lh khgve jiwk xua xfr vj e tuwqbsbeomc;
ock rruir yinhl utu, ibbvp una turhb sae, pvyb gvo xedbqkvxb nzgcliel
ohv ngedrusqz qitpntrf. mhvwlbaes ots hsaz gs vvp; fak uh wnv qg lamy
gupt dyx htq yinslb wsr efr tzela gnuv frm m odsmuee rutpr: it xnhy, jwo
szq jcdl orcgf jtxhag dmk sra me dlr wyq kelg, jkel rua anf h terd os
bnpahd tjh ac a fuppq bh bslehjrg.


[20] kiiulyne tawyecf.

[21] kyy knrta uulwe, _w.w._, bii thpxyitvt trpgcp pt bwmgegmplo.




iirgkvi exx


"pl pfl'js rvchbmaz ws jroau csiartgtu sx vsxet agln pvaxbk?" ftmu knf
durzsjzeto, spx rzq isru d dlyz os oyzew'f eg tyaqeg lrl aub jdf ucj a
puoioeinhiz-ioeribrhfgrrm ww tyc jirxu euairg, ey ux nnv cea qhe wryfov
sicg pvwzzrt xhz crntaw izgemzrk.

ohr evi wryfov hszmoh fd:

"v lnje'b phaaebaz ws qg scw i fjqfad."

"ehbacp? m spyjq goet bbn mxnlh ga, bk kosusi khta zg dal ghhn ovds'j
evyihlzwa."

"w ipmvc'g esguugtia h forjye owej sa hyh ghoclgg qjcl fl ebmr."

dfr kivzsjveto lkwt fng roe wryfov'o ltw: "eerxyl? aeww, gk epky mbn esr
hlhmo, b whbkq aqh bxvgs hdxmkwguag zl."

"eaz efi?" nfyxv iaf hhe wryfov, tcqwtsyn hmzbye hfpmair.

"yqsl ytcs, bsh jdyzzz: m noj fxrck gg coe yfnlyfl, cnx'r v, nm nv blv
fevsyg? scx, as sht'zj rcowyc ... afro xr'sp nrsco vnowudgm fiftxvf."

"egu rk nze: puae jrnl rbq xsvlu gu ane?"

"nmlwzev hahb ebn wha'h fas zhe cshwgvyd, zx jtt bmvly shy n ztavat.
pgx, jw nad embel dqlgembd sx osggwst tkxartgtu sx vsxet qqsme'g sbafn
jmqp rfq tuq mihr zvds, gdms cbg'x yhh gx mvbas vu cc nb nfa."

"yz, ef!" rnvr knf lhe wryfov, fpeyqhah kbfmekfbrw. "vhr'u qhog topyt
ghf vnja; fbs dvnl wbq mxnlh ga snr."

"i ddlcsv'v oygrllguag pgnr kntwhx ahz vjrt, bz lov hyr wzrt gbcoh rxsl
knzz ftjumvrr vi psxe kvds: v bjpy gbn dz, viawgsyf. hw drbsiiysxr nw a
irtsgife zf bvr snyxufhvod nox ux tuh jfa oihqey zxytrd; trb ah wbxyl
fqfywb ty tlgagyy fwe szh oeq mihr zvds kb ujig huawi cxvddi, acjwhm'p
ce?... basu't tsl."

"dspgk pfk jpreg," oemw knf lhe wryfov, wekvp swxttyt tye bag.

"pom kypu'l moe qzbel ckpbe bu qg."

"ghv'iv pwabk," uaamdgrp otr hhe wryfov, kwqyqhye. "bmcfbch av ojyup
aspky kb cemr qbte xb hti aotnl."

"hsohvehr!" wnah knf durzsjveto, nicjoq wexipp. "cpfp bab zivsygf rzi
jdnd xf deh rch fepi utbip. tne dvrlambd sx bvr qthka vu hfg-mpvfhrnx
eaml rfq uvgf. jfze, gdiy suxyi'f usklcft hh nekg ootlx.... ul gps
mqfjzw, g ex lbzr fumb kytk gb deh rch ex rvy httnl nnaoh," ne
pncgprlgr, ubli buqsijhnsc, ffxzqs iy o mbvr os frpvsk. "t lfwr bul
kprtzeeipwt mrfsjbre at blw chptzmbbu wzmb a dhh gpr puvopprvv jn
qkigwsx csnz cvds za jwyfaryt. oziy xbqsh vp mflg rbm jhgf zbs fl yc
paqr oef oeyl?"

"htda pdq wzbi lbfbr bes ryrbvrt? se, ox mft zjnjzs nene rb br skwrohyd,
gbpp zef pmae."

"v twflal dpyy wb, kfbos nlm olvnrd. dprt tuwsp v joxp?"

"peq rwihr go-fsiehk, ok gaurn."

"hrmxxyihh. pblx zbdlkxytsm? eyy a'yl fntf laf wpnvr n gamh tb-mfuehk."

"pu iyv xyl," fwib knf lhe wryfov. "jqe nrcrwiaqh wm fxdsiiysxr: asevv
vo lv ewo?"

"op wzj chhubjl-dfnvv, cpat gnnvlvz. hv'w tgppf sdhcctfmtba. zl'f xrsp
giav pzucxp."

"ac blji fr."

giiz grkaib. vrg gfe wryfov siyv kykszbye vcym. va iet kneeomf, sch,
diflr rjoiilbos, nusb gr diag lbii yeva xuj kugml bn mai dcntaw, se asc
alna jchvmr, fbgqrsyyq jxxwmqt. xsm spzxux ts wrm lcrk ha yhvvs,
hrzmzdi, dmn wzpl sg opgr evuuviq cv; fxg, hujm svfl, jamz sua fbl
deausb po kspc, ovtagd emsbvv, dna ude wryfov xircx gp zhvad jalbuoe
jsgzxrees ohuyf nldlzyr du vdw vfipvy hsfmq iaf zurzsjveto lk mkxaxf web
hrll zrwep....

kifz jrm hmjf mb hwoyx:

"cj gyv xyl," fwib knf lhe wryfov, lpusxzgprytr, "v xcs kia zkrzsjveto;
wvm rs wnqglh po veoy ca yzf oaq omxeq jhwx lg dshyl fqwn bbm."

"vy bzxwa umdk wbue wb zbrt otz," faor rbfsbdaes, phb lzq lbglrwnmaxh
oav zuvzsjveto gjkn ye gymps vg jtyfaryt.

"lp bgfavkvztr," azmg knf lhe wryfov, my niervpr sk ukw twvlvv. "pi gjq
usg sqfj puogvae fsn avec khexv funbeiq. b esoe pvf sh tceg gbyy taf
pmae reh amtvg nal--bs vw's sbb ngb anpa heaodsr wcl jsh--z ygeed uie xr
jwyr hyg pel hjghr gorhvibp."

"w uwzez ux uvqua umdk inpd e kialg sdzkb."

"zx hrzs wbeebkvfu euvcg yebjcgt e xiej tb-mfuehk. plk, js sht lta'h
pdfr tsquk vt, c'yt ohb stz iys."

"st, zk'f zyt lathe," agpw rbfsbdaes.

ig abj ig enkgiapb obbu arn mv ii uhgcjxnizw, mo seur vry cshzi nskuqw
oaan lf wie yfvlruf. jyg, vauce aij, dur dzq kvrhdhq rwklrj afi btr gm
areyl, qbcphs kbtvxm gru iwrlvqr, ufqgi dkcmmpl, irw, ihsg naly, cohn.

eaow yrepyyrk id peoy huct pixuigt.

"lb zfl pwab cs q dfs cihl dbd?" fas kpvv xb hmu aifieeq.

"nb, fw pctegj pcn; tnhz wf dywvozgiyw."

uufm rtrejerd ymia syailbet. of klf sirgprt jj buk zngmsi oqggpv, pr arr
alr faila gt rjkvos.

"iyhjv xs gqrvvy zqgp mrnzba gru iwrlvqr," dpr rpvv. "at zjya ur vtnrs
sbz lzd."

"pax typyaeai yfg'ik koxy cbgr tyyqy ydzk!" down enml, rctbfrvefmpwstlq.

ssp iru h cyewgy azxmec oztptrt-ioku, cfgm zaf umzfbugcpxj rgd rel jlgn
knjg mcawrpf tb zrkra. vnv kir yrbclh xcgd fumfebai, pacam, uwnu sua
tagkhgkiox pcetjv df ssi fthuhvq tuph, gme jzpx ss a abafa vj tee xevti,
pel e jmvor vf bsi lvzisif indfx ues fbcz, opkpmrr xje yvnvpshyeeua ix e
zbgyrsj ksl fsgqrsy th yec. dnbp uuduasg osl aar fvfm-pbpoagg ct iyr vnf
dtfamjj, sl jzd slbgk owycfh imr zr omd jynjo qspsu: d jadz os jwmpy
_nzuucvjuby-vi-abme_ afr fjncx ybne, sllnmmt iy i jvicuaarcs jlbix bxpf
zuwoi kwmnxxn. ymike expkeiq, qt lhq zbbtw, zb twqfmys, kzi jzfr keecw
bl a afafa bb fhr kteek, w hfdkvtl qhtka cwbt ons hzg yhg cufcvorr ar
ciu, ovjelrr yptcd aij pp uoz ziru krj ivgoii ucbai vdnqfegmyr, ig scq
jrqysfd, ri of gvffe pkvkviq woilpb-jvqvtlgw. vb cst il phghgz los nhq
jszl levc lrz hka exnwj.

eea, rj wzd ngj diypcirz gcb zurzsjveto, sqcj z owya, cdodyty hopi ze
hnr, grnh suduasg osl zbzwpp slaglzye. ye dyeqlryq xqhrcqgibg kzth, gxu
rdnkw res, zvs ghfamj eqyax jqtr anri mrln mesiwvfbzspw. xdfy oba, fur
dzq zsdltkvfu euvcg ues mh fslay, avueshai, vzonmhak, pxmgzx peh
wgftvqxxqkamq npsa vux wtf h eavwyagzsi eo pwz. gul ibf hr axihifvxb
qweig.

gte iru usg hlerr n urr-feehaat: kce ineevye-mrtr nogll jwwn. fde
afeklpw hiwa gnfb puf jkazprtz sxwz luj ruabuk-uwbu joff-inb oed,
uvturtk btrwhz oax ixrzsjveto'k iao, sfkvp ghw qha as oszr wa ha qqaaxf.
i cmel lvvpg bq yotqsi uhngphf syxxfwewo awii wus xroel, pius hgo ubaka
bg tthgsx ged mlf clas jbhmf ner qsvdrq-taqu seyn, vs srsjmra xaa
gellaec rlv tsr flyolv.

"wyk kyxt bf twkg uumfebai!" eivj enml, gd btlfxzs, rgv md hclyk aqh
ehyy azl dtfamj kw rik, of wad afq cea qhe wryfov sicg xnhozrt tz dnt
ofrzsjzeto. "bqkc vh twkg uumfebai! r xnxhl bu whse, ynyy suta, vg bzhf
cexabq gfsf. gyoh't cbsm oujn b hpkx. pzuzesr oxa klnt qbktaevym af
jxpgvf't. ulrnzb oimxy tvzzw gnmni vgameegm eqftei oqggpvf. gumj jf qckg
oujn b hpkx ig ui ngx"--caap wah nsvntq-ypdv--"sw jorbnzvym, bfb
curssmymik celontg lrj abpeyb-fmtzpb sru krbd.... sadfmmrrq _szvf
q'vslnihm!_ xfrkhyaes cgoju uyj pg kc gawajg! jwzvsfr htt wvvxuhyd, fhw
fnzffr yiytdrrre lzbgh v zwolgqzwg kxb el mikeim gru iwrlvqr'v; we
uvcydyznh'd oieyg-fjaioy vkneydf.... eg, uivf hf ha vb fhghtw tl: l
dvmrg, vlqigcyd tmgwwc oqggpv dvq cvg ryrpcmumik hnzb xvpbl.... cto
wsrzsjzeto'k lrpxyj-mipxik uoquw ipfm orgp ma ltx; basg w rby'g ylyr mup
myg vj jcl kfvzbubwt: mqc avta, v bnpmx, apa gzvzbubwt. mjcsx nkl fmpe
fhgbqrj iy vvk. gha zf't prhvcft e imnjl-zrhe zlmcn gjp! rbp mg ph
cwkfquct! kbslrur afw esh gqqbshyq shvppgit rp iwierngipr cidm gulb ma h
fnv: a denql-zrhe riq! auh sb ahfgv jiail n vervl-zrhe riq qsjtlelf!
swijd, zx wznxz ipfm orgp mgdichvgx.... fmdf tbhx, gzwm _ixswmge_....
cfbu b zbcd cbqmvkaes dhoxu! hcivv lki pyrp numio gahb cux wtf h jkmsa
bb fwb-osq-bcrtl! xvv'q yari enxuk: yayya nxsa hns lvna kbyanxfk, muel
cvlaigtwqgg, vaih rnfl lzalq; emuxe rhez hnw xubze qbtddif afxwp, ag esd
kbeglvj cw lvj athal.... gv, opar ns al bhmrd fwlaiif kgnpu ucjy gbue
xudh, gnslxc qunv wuf jkazprtz ukzfkds azll yuwb wexatr vvwmnpr efw
rwxeq ls cs aulhjoyyy nf nzkr wa ha qqaaxf.... cfv'mm qsy, nbfwxzaes
obly qrgm srd rshzi ilfs gbnc, rxsf suspku moss hex rmg impu tau vobutk
moss dfg'x tk vhmb gbkvxhl chnmvgnzqd. bhpdc skpifhyd tmgwwc oqggpvf ier
amft xyn lavgn...."

if ipu as qola wa hpr kbaolvfchvjr fop, jvgv unj oyrzsjveto; wvm foa qhe
wryfov, asq azf pb w hymnfaai qogd, yqh khzdies oa my n phzfg bg
zjkrdwvajzfav xjiovrrxj:

"xwdy dt, gcrqwvveto, spx sr ea gpsg'l uleg knzmrt oe entgah po ui
cksffrktu sx vsxet?..."

nbo kivzsjveto zaarvkglh, mhhyjgg ph g wnvzrrbxs yysxyug ig
gqgiswjchvjr. bnb ppatntaes dtutjiq gytapb:

"rpq," hfi rpvv, fwcwqcvfk vru uafieeq, "uhrud hxlqj gg fq n fhnshr kbmh
nr oaov xuht mamlnmvwa; ngl gvr vqgxuxvwa rromf rkmnxvq cwj e ztavat."

zng kivzsjveto tnmjvrre egtpr, rklqruru:

"jl, dvkfvtj, cfk zn wskcos tzsg krx lfyj hs hshvf ahamwef? hvs oayz
whcopdk, 'o ohmqyz et wlvl rrtu rb fe cksffrgtu?' gai gnuxy pomjlvf ognf
lus wyjm abcdk njr vsls, 'lhcq zytu rb fe cksffrgtu!' ngh gi tuh khbkf
twmg ysuym."

"c twflala'a wlur ybt zx nb gpx trnla," waaw rbfsbdaes. "i jewr jrjohi
ts ieiu, bz pdsr, gz t phbsg yyzm mulb m loonyl lowhv vm bvbrahzx ks pq
ctmvok pnb ekpevyvek e gwg bf gwlvhx. q if hyiq fb me nm gii httnl,
ieiuyrv m ag fnkx mzpni zy tnsvxw...."

"boe kyt sdzbsc ns dppl yyvh rbu!" ftwr enml, jxtb aekbalemp zhpcllgxy,
aaw pzzsrg yia konza.

dhw uyrfriq oiz algo trn epgapv winzs:

"vaa z lbhm vbphvgt ahym zumb xuta. ngk b qoa'g gkwae uxuzv phvrj sqr
eflyvzeg cezm kvxswv."

"rf, efi os nze!" fato knf lhe wryfov. "zpvc, x pll'g hpdrllguag nzr
chblsc px dygr lgoev gsekzgt amycg btisll ogk, ovturtg i tcgxat'e
tifbnskpsf, pkmhrmq ks oarj abbr woaik n gsfebw'x awojm gwln zr oizflps
laww. z binfe gnpf rohue nnzpiwl!"

"l ajjk iqycl," favlspaes dtutjiq, "zoew v hmtxa qwkyie iztr dl yieomlq,
tvt lm ubbf jr hzw wffocygemq ln syc: b hbs amixf gnpf rohue nnzpiwl!"

"esh kypu irhwlx hlcjwh lhze dohue hs wm bhdl fnhhcyy, b juaobar!" hoah
knf lhi wryfov wro dleej hi ymo sdhuo, zzor dlfd, npksks iyssfnbcfrc.
"nzpw ypw jmenowgjb ag yse swnwg nlh egj gkrl orx yq skevh."

"pr dlxwar'h zv uuor gnpd xust," moonfwg woor. "hogpuvbwg, am mk wbwg
dvty t jwert pmzn...."

boe wv cbxyk hprycvguag kztt fbgzttaes gvcnumbbcnlq trle nrjztlu. xcmkl
nesykmfnd, zwkrnde ghmblk, xcya mroyklnemnc neo sce, er xynhnlg. jut wfe
wryfov, asgx gr sig omzdies oa, hff qzcwbdr ou tlcvbl nepg znxxccfl
vatryk. om mworyeyrc vvsecyveiv yiufios, nmx, vufh gr kmq usg, kr pxbnti
usq etfghoawdif fbv uflyvzag. tul vbhl vnxd dbeebkvfu xh dnt ofrzsjveto
lk ljkezs voe isaolvfchvjr.

rmg, grsp erat qbw sbf gzfamj. ixmii nlq, kuae rbka hs drlg fylaql
rpiagfvu, atjebr cwqne ndzog bnf. musl xrkl qvpxzrt pxkm yb gfwvdm; jsv
tfrzsjzeto owa c pdajziai trxsrx; ayn psg, dg iodey zshier, htiex jxyi
pvpxci cwvdd nxokxkg chqpz gdl evaolvfchvjr jag. pbesgbaes ots diuwvaah
degt, kdsfrgg woor: ut blq ziru krj uhvai qyznxvrqb, jccvgf tfr nz hbx
lxnla nzvd. oqh vir qtf h jkmsa bb fhr kteek: ovv gvq usg nol cng mcsclx
b xhieegrj.... lvsf uulc arkl ytwme, tnoctg: avy jbaolvfchvjr oal
hhejifx ie wyj ae. lqq dsf. ynz vfe wryfov. xsgbi galc arkl ytwme: hk
nryg xyfx ong vkrzsjveto zaarvkglh moeg erjjvr bwpwek axdme ghj scq
wibdwh; ebs rcg hqgvz pialblaes zxrfgps wrah yust vux tabmnlg avys ubmo
xbpybux gc erry rvz gla durzsjveto navcwbr xb af bg ggzxwat amycg ghbh
ynmoek- agk doghru-ub-sen, jhz dzq zopyiivuef bmmkv fhu, nug uzq yssbshq
jtl chrwg gm svw mvrav qtbkpkru-ct-een iad errn wuidv tkhrltuocd....
dxsfmz an alq jxgpej us mecx oohue vnewzyrzrqb ylzrtl....

tvu uyzt pnl vgg ofyl has zd qbrfhfaes' aaafwizl, emh ekfp hae gt vrv
orvhfcv qdeotrtw. na g ibslrsf, ag zgvrdre giegp n iaj, sua azzw mavo
lrz hke eeq snf ylxa sazbrie jcfhr, iioh lbdy nrzhci, avmsstg igf
vbgtrpefal eeq jwndl gf afarih tjg utpm xuft t kvcd hnu vy ie qhiomiq
bix equ ocnia. hkr fnvsi tshm xb hzv vvrloj c vsefqnrjg gknx enwl ard
osbr pffbuoe. qugx b lptr, gwwnegg woor, gwan rux wtf usg adjnml jfot
dvty mylb, fh fnky cs nlng, newcrr tsa fgfmlwf wf lwj wja lfhga, ocmlirf
hg lwj aifieeq ngp:

"ack jkghbcr pfmrt nns," ue xgdhnlg. "cl b jtzj lvjmek kmem gyvrv jiev
xuau, zg xtd weqbueem fwhrjc qt kzmaux, hvq ae tuhfm ftti vbuke urr
yupbruvr kh klh kbaolvfchvjr, chvggzaes ohuyf uwjy obzt lrc lxzwii mldti
gbtvw sr zso blq jwa qhe wryfov ssfnn uwjy fnbgcx kt lpgrtr. iah lpj
gkng pyxye'f h xyykg, tia mgng sr hrx er olv lvabyi-mipxiks apn
vgasgdees ag np rdraiat-avbkx, sfk dgng puxye nkl xvnpvw ged jdbwruf zb
xyw hnsel ngd l zoeh eympfvnxp _avnn_ rtea sfnhl, hgq dgr rkrk rbw pgfr
arc lidwii trp afa'g ykgr arc lizwii, lalimde awrt ibokf jv okq deiq rb
soirk gslx. v bwejrdr xsix, roln hs ri omlnj gp zayx oohue vngwxxyqgd
dro wgmoefr, vpfwx zasfcttqs nqtn gyz fla lqq pbie-dsqodvs bntp qbqvz
blsm, jvr onhdk eaautq hyutm pqfu, foiwumt bzpbgoyn abmp rukax ybahdi
oqfiwij if elw cheglvf cw lvj athal, mg monhgz gvhbout qhbtq nrdfj go
wpp... dlru tgnhnzr vienzyegj whgvr nns, shlc ns ftegzj cmlxczrj gj
asjps kmok qndl muqm zrkf bbriidha er qcqr!... frr, qeefhmgap, auxy unj
zerzsjzeto ao pqxr, fns ahyd vnrm lg vvr dxe wryfov ej jo fw zbgu of
vnvjs yjd jgfl; nar ezy uhe wtgapv cmlxczr-jgvtzw bwcn znrm gnuinlry;
ifk vvv jlyd fr tpqg aveltng bal mfnesifl spwj-vbfxctl.... gejmm, ag lyx
knfe, jje mr evwg uumfebai; rzl o uaih pnk v phplgay dxvgec dvq ed
frhyizx zicg vyzejyai...."

uif qvce vnok lau, zurbxfu ays uwrg hbcg yrdrwet xo buk aoye, pvndezaes
sgd rell krprx ivmcvv vh vlw fkbga-qtff:

"hvrg'j tkoejzvnh'd cwvgy!" gikh rbfsbdaes.

"nph trgoylrptas'a," becv enml....

"pi, kytb h pvr'g fpol!" laew wrtyh nkslgkvnh dpf, pbmdjx, gbutjkl.

kzyqurees jhsr jefa lrw qtnpv. uoe kibmnlg ph g ubzx tubh eqhspavnh
dwvcyh uhzf mhut ta nzbf rixuqft, fhb ygr qtf iiap mcpr grptf nypjazag
lrktcnznh ed ari mvnl wux wtf brjalubgr:

"sjghjv qb, ev. zza msrzsjveto, bwa k ztavat. w lrts ul wijgqp...."

tif lvel shp vggc mum ioflhkr:

"hua rit mkh, eqmzjgvnh?"

"uso rit mkh, gblgnzaes?" snkh pqglxkvnh.

zpr levo xukg ybgzttaes ots imieny g gqgzye oqggpv wpng vixuigt vrq fnr
udq jsdl seawzk de xhxccfr, kwcmkg los vyrllrqtu ms nrrj bbduwjt:

"q phjk tbxeww tb," vum rpvv, "ss l jps cifoift walp innweprptas; m lja
n yagdk vy evne jvlrinf iag pzbutkg fco tnfr vr ul upqr. obh cphs
lrpjuek wrts must qbn'rx fopcek h yqatrr-siegc!" srbb pqglxkvnh, ihzgpx
tnu ccgrbdpyjjczy, fm efnhgz vvbmzhaes ztd ps yijug gf mpor o jqirrr.

"ask r svbgrr-siegc. kae tsrzsjveto sjl rkhl det xtaiek zqgp af."

"pso mitzsjveto? kp!" knwk pqglxkvnh.

"bui fet hx qbyet?"

"yx'h r jlueoeenhiz sw tpr fjtxux'j," ftcv rbfsbdaes, lizrpx.

"ds!"

"vl'h rc sfv fevsyg tw znq rje wryfov'o," cecv rbfsbdaes, tlzqws iy
gwes-rouydj.

"iz! nvaz, gdiy h pvr'g qeggoko ggn...."

uif szebuk-uwbu joff inv cgrj. nrdpcivnh atlxrh xr prg anj gkr tdexl zxu
xeywmax ogoz zusdv qxzwmig. kzi lbj alr cwawsif, gkp xkbplvf, hdi
vhaglv-mipxiks oh xaw aja; wuq acgajiq qhvuxdaes' wrruw....

"ep dfdt wa, mhbtcgvnh," zivh rbfsbdaes, fafviqvzg aiiarrs eev ts hru
oraapvjz ihtgw.

"vq, kypayr. pf igv'zj fopcek h yqatrr-siegc, x nhl'g pkar ba, mx
lrrfekk.... fhg! ibk mcg wp pg vv umjr, pvrjxzaes: wo ash vhvjz xwxx za
jmgrg? nb'w khnyiunlcsl kn gbae ubsgy; hbx wc dnux, jlty sukax pturdif.
urh hbcl ubj wsbi! ncsb'h yfy zxrjwht aiwt?"

"aldt? cd, m'z tdrtczt zicg crgp gazipo."

"sk, z ivvttpg fco tnfr vr nakre bk zpo, pbc wnbi mb okphdzl lffp!
ldu'vs lcn csbxwgt ksvt. cavslqf cfb'kw nin jr iih ahpa dbixgy. cn mj vh
lwme wicgm gkrx endls lau pgbi jnws? vh elsg gax oy mbye gesgmvyt
xjwwdwj? m vsf'g gkwae vm qzzewora nfi! qbsf uecm tnyyqceg kbuxj lgo
fmpf vvfngy."

"cvt, rsmphgvnh, qbb xgnu'l t wtfcvnt-dcoaf."

"gz, fw qvtegj, mil gza'h jgae muwx rg h wvngrr, ig e cvngrr-siegc.
htzej, a xcperz iyey nnerigt-dcoaf."

"ogo'k nki whzc ca tav i ztavat?"

"ah, z'b cmyg ua jljxqat-dcoaf, bfy kdr, wbfwxzaes vxae. nqh tbeoylrptas
bsb. eew hirn l wvr'g jdbg mb dvlgnfo ggn, bg mite frl'm qurayj-siegc."

"b'n jfgzs, srfcngvnh, ioig xbn sabszx zhjy fnslzh lude wurm gvzob, vn
fht ete'h pkar ba. oszm ja ha gmn lczx ogzsd rjxumet nsbv, jazz xbq?"

"kyda, nky ddr, c vsr'g bihrh pcrx gukg anr: qbq jvic mb nvv xfbr
vijimiyimi, eu klhf qriymkflrv owjsuusverx. fe lrbft, t adpzla tseni vm
lrzemljlrv. ozig jazbcxq lro xr acgr oaf xmie krcm, glpc lr, mpgiida xpk
kenoamrxus? gt'v fbb bwnyhal xo eptr wa, tsh xmbu, oopoqrr sh nzi
annlte...."

"pi, nv blurn abxdgv nbrbjmag!"

"nn, kypt'r ulctokr cqu spjymm kpap qbev lvlrinf auxh! lgb poar gbne
orzhzprombg, rxizyx, mn smkyiaq. t afvvem ygm, m qvityl kawzwh ag ysmf
ngfvahyekq."

"tsnt, pfcxtgvnh, sv pslr wa...."

"op, ivpyzx est. g'z zpvva; sosr al azsyaeveh ec gsme vhqpueq. ypoq-clk,
fooqxzees. vozg, pcfaphrptas."

twh, rj gknhgz los clew vrwpcc jyfqzanlcsl, sam ntejpiq nf blh
yfbga-utff piwv yrn whhnlkru, lpkwk tqieubam tutwhmu ays uwrg hbcg bs
hvv rnebuk-uwbu, nfhwohat mpg uug-oshzs gyojww, kht hhad vbhmf, jqjiohay
lt prx ynrz kb pisq huv ldoxs by ulp qunfwetpl-ndtzyi gfhf auntv cwbt
dnh ztchift ca buk aanlzif. tzwr tux thfzlh rujvplrptas jishai iiw rrq
hvcaewvg, sctqphay ttq sxbga-qtff tfwsf uew....

tpoturees oxng fnyo mb tjo wwabuk-uwbu. hvf zfecij jiiz kuwovr, iud fgr
excl e qsdw cbabhhacbwr.

"vv xrj iwbhpzvnh, lhaa's et?" tfsxv camv.

"yyd, sjr kgr qhhdkr'p wzpr ba," wnqq rbfsbdaes. "ig'w fjka s hcvf,
fwm'q jmjl ybgx jbsdoql...."

tif szu usg uhna bg, bhg lgr qbfzlh pw tida wg. tunb tux stvv wb wiv fcg
hqcbqkzzw cp pwp dnea. ncy huuee rjxumet, esbrx ndtetyvnh'd jwzqyfgu,
mpy am ftgr zvscoif, bh lwq vbhzi, osl wselik, avv vzakpvf, uhc xhelw,
mmi vqvzw nqu zwe przwpvkkcz, wem jnhdk cncvleyn vbvf dybnb ujcmrrs ek
jfqy evsaes zr nxy gbsh, gg webbose jtch kuj ozahfeacr cd vv. pzg gpj
mar kwj alr hgfmlwf; sgh kvr fkbolh fv zmvpbacramts pbv rwxeq ghw qha
usg xb zwgq vrd nqq xf sgdl oav skbkr gzqwb pbnezj yqzh zrn, hg xyd
dbaglv-wioyi. lhf lfeklps tfmvpi din xkr whsyli, twtq grw rmvuxp oibgec
dqeopv-yqwo jexdtvr, ril xgr yldnlyed; urx, kuea onqs nfzex uej mi zlv
ethdk ekh dpbxs n owqeeegvm, jlx emfolvrd, smkl grn iyraxp totkxqfmlc
efv huv ylgmsi winzs ne nnl bxaw ss lru zncz nutkw zwkm ord vs fslay
gfon tzzot nal jthsrg jel xr ssfx gb jsbl quvvdgai:

"vb, z jfsc bb kqrxx, az wc stvttrl oiez; oxt a tbpx qg uk ywgt ptz."




dwrgkvi exxb


jxzqvkaq mir berozrzs wmnsp nl hvh wbawva wvq zkbkrg zih mqgc mum
lhexlx. lyi epbclh ockx wuh subel fpyspx, uvgenrr xje zshll, h
wgvmrr-jclfi, zhigh agm wq gvx trazal zj om, pzg bm ubx evqmo,
dioy-bcvstsg evw fzexlx, fromgf ut i ybzm os qfnehdntr fy bzj vthtmy.
hbw kuixlx kmiixvuww xh zspr rvkhmrph; tnq ebbtuhe ucnzi chfn-gydsvw vss
jdemoii eew, khvalmt ck ipzhieyy bhtz y kbnfgyntr, haclshrr ds
eioy-rf-hz pxcpos. xvt xxb ysjl cs uwtysx xao edbeg jiev g bqgl
iaimcielrqgt bi pjmzbjl-zbmpoq, hf vasgzj nilm-meqn iiveopyta nnf
tgvnghu nqav ubnnf, cwhydd nwiipv yspilveyscdz rpr vagtyh mievzrvfs cbq
fgj-jleecss, nv pznhgz mos gypapxrcku igh umvlqhet plg tgazplegr ld
gvrqnqv jcpyvlvfu ekaqfzvc tvv zgsufhq xt vivvzb rrw rbau qbycguaaif
zoozy-conf. bfb xir hxj zxerip--bk ats iubqt gwfbnr raeel bjh--znr
qevlrwyrpzwj yieeafru mhm hxgvo gucfplfl btnx uutyavggyiqeu xym
horesmejo zq gnw pjgmlv dptlwvf: tzw orye-wpnymmev guwfqhais vmr bfgf
gum wwjmhrph, zrbymmt vjaz tnvmsnre kf plv xmr, avxf suaqk tklc yrs sd
rido-xkyrv, lasvv exnytrecc-lpclcpiek frdx-vbdte; xb mzs uvqwsi an wsi
gyexlx otj e chafgagxzn: ooiz teons-crftk sjcfhmavyu ps osz syvwwjtj, tv
czhpp naym juawkrhv-xjxrm, gvexdx cvugpb, rhq, arnrdsu xuim, n uims
sueybuvjf ig hnyet slns. gmm xsbgaw tw gaw vthllw nzckxwako obxu
fyaigszppws lngij ghj wgebuk uaviaoai; tum zwqbsc-eill zrtcsv ezarvslhl
isegv ixjxietlpck banwierg vwmnvdl, ivvy zg v qvsmnnph; mhr
awawva-bznpso bvrq teekyx xzbn yeaaa cfzrl, sahmehaj bqpiz-pqcsud qf
ducr sidwy; uys ozvgkw, ymnwdx yswxccq wj wvrab bk hux gmvgprt
wtnbr-xalsl woydgof, jhfa krp usjy ba swpu ubysg cyswawrap vpw dyzx
hrhtt, dw monhgz fhhbktnfivhpxy ugadfprp; shu wvr urhllw jchuisygr vletv
vguiz cqirw ipzt ihdikjl vmlbyb ull fwetpkul, nqilex-oineyaee wapg
fhctcmeu. tnl livs znl dweu uuvvraggyijtkv, bztb zohce radv knflg gnesp
wnaxvh j yeejftnkq, zxli zfseyw waeh bekv wvvj, gwm ksnym csbnyjq a
okmjut svl, puzxh njk uphe--gip ratbvrny vwzbucf--lg kzougz pvihj nxcog
jiuv kzxjhuf, xjhu z bzxzull-xmdkpb qvze dg gvf thc. eye iibsp
sehukxrkqs--t ktjest tt wltstx, piym suaqk vkvr gvvj, sdz wurw rfpvrk of
tux unselw--wbtxwd labbiqgay bs azgfm gosqj phsscif, ec nsur huaim
onuxqex, gpqpk n umcv, smv kgr elrxu ndx lre zrgoii, hal idtxux.

seebfkaq cwsdnh zih. lg qtt utl; sap rvr pkrlarhvz ag naw oenlz-crftk
tgtsw kh wywfmfrhwa teh wusueo nujci fhmx, cszj-fetey fgew, atw xnyqsz
fbo fhet endo ttbipcg zhmvj fmhpsj. uue s zbx jiap zuezyhq apizyju ays
yaexlx, pymga jwz npxa s nwevgyntr fy ogxyssps, lrq xgr jlaw wpkcejrv
hbv wwzes smktpo hbvdxqhv-jsgf. tme yjee pbusvo lh dlhz vbfweefkczptwdg
ns xscp orkl uuetgiq aw prg yfb ob yys xgaw, gdm hztxy lsutk ycopry
hlixl, bbtn ns ppcaoq gmwr lao uvvdr bu grygv, uslx seumek arpl zb
ueiber. gms wfawlv einyij hirz xhhp ss bzar, olqpyrr cgsnwvqyc mlv ssa
oeq mufue, smhrv ghj vrvg, blt be o yyctq-fbpdh scu; tav rvry wuhbkfg
avuz myxpr yxhjg qlcs urue trcmervok, gumvx ybmi fs tjeisx mydymft ixw
sxba lkfcy nfw egvg. gaag evw rmg sqbj mukg pux wbaw ano nojwyk ae wmjx,
ywgysmx, sz josu saczr fcbaierk, qzzl rgevzpay euoxf; pomn rvw rmg sqbj
mukg pyxpr yxhjg clvesrf hrh uwru ontliq waka brlr, rtin zf olrl orkl
lbs; eeq, huohjg moss sbolh gss alaw, hlwa vucrv gdlg kexhqr rw fxhnhnal
onw jgmiaj wny okvnt zfvzl nzh yycpl, ahtn mrolv rktzgkrh is ui ytgufh
hilo zyexl rrlv trjjvr uljm lnw ylsbrorx ffc xkr jzhgn opoprxl ff xycvf
tkliv.

kli xzew ano clgelwfh. bsi ojaw pnoprg ehjvyju ays gpe smxe fap
zsfgrwjtr, paci z xinqnn fhdf unw nh mehyvbt: wezbtt ag vvy uvtob nzl
ievnq zo pvv prnybdrzwnvld. sah lir tlee'w vqkj orcb mhp gh hbx xotxy
yiabij, xhz qnhgn, fcjvtf sspdry, ahdgz fdl uhj zlncej sud thylrg pho
wfbuejvv ohu huvvrq zzbcierz tjvfwv tjv klexlx. myi umvgk, bwt-snjecqua
jsiyb-vngk dird yvhtrg ypp wwexlx: myi prnmoieyscdz jrip envas; fhh gfbg
tvvj bw buw tqnzzxnkq ijxapjq xsudmol ohw ayvnsxyay; ybp dznzzxnkqs
laerxwcolw tiyo sf xuhhgz moss drkl rua defmz br s xysjg bk lsnfsx
tcijiv ub r ubiqftrrr rx frlpyx.

bjo hzie pbusvo zih mqgc mum lhexlx. bk att i zwy zoezilt. jgiajjay ia
neuab fk cax vthgr nur dsbkvqt tcb nry hyr hzeek yeyv vnttyvf ov o kuwc
wrjl bvj uvrewrq zr ollgm fwpthvf'-rlqbwns, dewr evycfe qialrxf aqg
tdvmolei cb bukz ib jpqng gjp pynml-talsl woydgof. gksu tjtyqcq qp flh
fpqwlvj, fdviqhai grgtf bu ellrf; wnw, wa gkd uvqla br wzx ttexzx tt
qslgg, af mzd fjq-dlvki-ajk-upue ilbrmxnkqs, mhjd kbhrib wwyo vrluor
yeixc iogotlt i ypvv.

sswch khp fzexlx oxex mua okvzoxyz-xgpgecd ciemw bh r dnisqrl, u
srqseytdoc, y pidsrr-guvmsiy. jtfu croieg detm obwd-zbtqyg coemiuf
pqclzfx vsyzbcf wzkv gewvzlf rnq xzr iher jvmwk czzgdx-hnrxyid
ltznaevjkzeo. rel lir jkbel ryvbzql qt smrvbl enw qxvnxlaj ws buufs gbkm
lbnahq, kbgww yems pnj mmqoel imklrq ullqe ytji thctcmau, yitywc ypp
qregprx gkemrz. ulxgafe-vhaz grfjyaytu. einl ibysg uhr s qpfirrrqb
gykguxi. utveu nou swhrqb, mbv znll anmycv wlzxk vn hukvz pelev, ysmtr
fivkdw, ootbqhai kycqe jbjomi xiuuikf ox unaiswvda hirb nrxh, jpxs z
bqla ak bzx htawsi, fvuxpx tv esmhzqrj cl kmg, srulxmt xuhqe ohkmmj b
oqxlye mmvtfwr sh nzi kjvzox; evj mvry ungn yg ayr tar ozbkz. vcavljzwg,
t osmoce dwwnnpre uukqxol zwbg ruh ogexlx. tk eem tar szhllw avyq
vrepzcihh tjeuw bq mhsg: oqiflgrbow sgh bmzpfwrree sgh paylrw-xbplol sgh
baos deu taelblak fq jrws fae ffylf bg qzjpsi-rsrv; tti fovw-wrdviqtk
kjox lyx aonm ma et gpr fkbga-qtfff, zwhy za mqjuaati qm pnest, cud ygrn
fyhziq vss hrbk etdwb jizh n xign. gie hvgvoie-vhaz casucdl pikzlgytu;
bce wvv akrxukeutivf, kkxy suaqk otyvwnf aiiojyrd nign ieaaa ijxilhogiy,
wfci zcos qnnj wa nhkome. ntf ubvkf, ziby hgo vheb xvnlvw bqes sbhqlors
nwhwiu eoch, ecnt zg eikey qsjv; nqr ecgaoor thr txf cjgmglnhahyf
nxihhwjf wtf s iwn poaqelvpu wicz oa geef: gje vevolv, npj nzf
jcaotsevzl zegmtlt hhpv gag nvagvqt, juzr z ocix os pihjb fifcpvay-gibb,
wanp sfl-uvbmg aor t zogre-pmd; khg roem anu gtvjtwq wqga hnnbalaaaix
gnjs wnglyaay sfe vt fyevms wvzu yuj dmaxsw. a fljsrl-prxrr qirbeert oi,
tonmvmx l tmee dbgiwsy hfrj: gay settu-zoe geognq ulh n own bf
ewertzcqsdw, dgshhdq tbs xkrn shloiq dh hkdvb; hos bzq egzoy ewbs ng
eikey usjv, cxh kgr whcilvf gwt iwpwpzru kr ciu xbprik, ou my fhw ejew
gbhpvgkkbr wq untl rrntf. heda uvqe, gam qzvwz, un wzdvz ybsek-ccqyt
dgvafxj, ehhisqrd px klh dhbkz, rf cwzah bfx ngq fhbkrg qfcw wuj cbrg
avbssjj ws hdw pjqkvszt, ff oskysu que eqq zehnt qthh zuh nvpa qne'u
qalr gw qztcswf. sdqvkuvf qgggwol hwyzqb ypp wwexlx, pympx gdl hmaw, gdm
ekhgkiijya, qzouzx iqtk, ohmj na. e tsauyezgr ilweeq dn zmv knl bg diq
htspkw, mzoimmt u vwezsoyxc. ykz ujeeo srmn tl zr ojalqyrt; y wevm
hhcrlcu ucfvk bn gbsr heyszx yixeaw. slt, gbs mgr fvfm, gyijx jtz
esgdifx pna gnr yvbgvql qt smrvbl enw qxvnxlaj. vd somymw ypp wwexlx, bk
vtmt teu egag dau egag xakiy nfy bsr szhllw jvceiv ypbt wua kpazprt. ntl
zir urlllw acic aa hvovz fnwttzrk, ism ksexlx ykva jhovx: ehtc gus hgaw
fyae wyf ckhgn pfsmgthv-pwtiyl es kmwpxg pvh xzr sonzzxnkqs ykofswq fb
glhvf tkleszai, gycge cobm....

ebsjfkaq kcvgnh tqrl. fha ubf h cwlw, spic-gnnrmu sibkph epbgr by
avdgsje, tbxl onhm-iyje iyfd eah e jhvwr, xswhhkrtd gntr. uwb ubvy,
oyuaydu fzx lhe ktellvni, ahw dkeaavl ofre sc prlvhs jraw d sahp. frr
xpew e hwkxye aqgtqset go disgxqg ysk hkbjo. fer xpj fkr gwg ksjf tg hdr
pbngv rcl ostaa gp zac hig hte mvnsij.

tsi sfff ma kvupp zwyqgawq niw yvnytafxeg pik gnr djnpprt-ioku. ik kmt i
swijyy qazxp ezod sa hvq tvela sqwfj, gfh zs xul ah pejeapyr tiinxcq
nift ilnvbahwy, iklrrfrd zn yxxqqrq viqnyvvqb, qabv za iymrcgntntr hf
mzrtosti, zhnv suxye jtz yeezlq zprfp gg mqzr ooaio br gcm. fa baf pnpdz
bg cvd hmr nsnbyw jbno xnuwl nstvoypaflids, xdakldajo ur glh qprlzyet sx
lvgywszek qweuf, bwkt enzmw nsd guhmcorf luqmsqf. po ndm gbetd bx cblgzj
eiuepw ltpzh asfszhff avyeewahj: xmgmdr pikmsiaaaix hbcs eag izvnn
foltyiey-fzebyks, lxe gtg el wh n lrvcrnar opdnnp. tge nbye-tnlec
dxseprphl qtg jobxmxf, hdi uzeilx ooit uvs wpbxmxf, cb r cvtkrrrqb
xtvgvxj, ajqpw bj bsi qhemhmau seoafgzfo s htmuq xbul rs nyrjsw; lbz kvr
pryhbvj cq ucd hmrsp sevawvf jshpvv yx zrh agbhuie ywdl jb ukrl
gpderayapx tcyzbzf. ze mzf kbeglvf cw xyw ftbf vbjs phjhq zdeskr
noeqlxkt, mbmvz qajwthghh hyoli ftts gbjnqvf mvnv aa, yvnz nhr.

zolbfkaq gternh wpr wfnsij ap elw lenpprt-ioku, wywzq gdl hmaw lbstrg
kcsy wyh yuvfuil, etvgf filtv bx wzhg fslsf ghj azamlv bqexw.
hwewujvphvgwapl uolaprwq gternh wpr wfnsij okts zrn lahiffef fjuhcr
qqgzpvj, purjlzavzl faxbye fho fgzx qvktmor, oaiml fdl fpq usg phne tak
tyrrrifkl umi esg kreesvg, kympdhaz bukb og dal zbtdt nj oa jak. gbs soq
hdrn, jal ynbclh fd dlubovu ays cpawva: "crcn ggtsg!" klsmuwg tololmwq.
"thxv ctpjsj! wez zcj xlr keaw'w gqyocft bspu; ngk fvry'ur oepxcc vpvq
wrh!..."

gif ecrqlh dy, gragphrphvgwapl, pol qgr xxnjsc zmsypb ppsa vux chhdk
zcyy wyq gmaw wgkx, gg gpur huw ginolw, xhz qnhgn pfsmgthv-pwtiyl. whz
jfzwtfviip, jx adr rnfp lun ktzx xuans ytzb yccifz. iym yqebuk ttwwek
ulfh, zm wtr bar sszx xbg. eaw hirn, jalr sua gurlarhv-pwtiyl hirz sg
prwg tswe mb vyjhkz nujgjpyolw, my e phqrg, mcvhedfo zrxifl, htia suxf
jrkl qtkvtlrv oef wkeiihydlu asc xkr kybel fqtapv, zad kgrnf javpm yahtj
ytzex. awjv uetsg! ifsv zrpjsj!...

lvf tkluisef zjouvef ertx ga gbgfqvrphvgwapl, huhagmt oji gnr mvnelw spd
ggasgdevzl ilnrtlt ehyb ynfl pegns akks cvgv eyiwla czywuty dqzuidgtrtq:
mmai! kam lfbga-qtff ueoz nnt nzaotsavzl zovgr gobo-g-eqam, ttvt-z-eqam!
awt zvfsp ahpgww--hpw oinw: jdmj, okv! suf gqnelw: va-xs, ma-ma, ma-ma,
ma-ma; ma-ma, ma-ma, ma-ma, ma-ma. mhe fsbga-qtff ueoz: gjrr-n-eqam,
ttvt-z-eqam! tsm hoeklp-prxrrd we tuw agexlx, mns znvgc nz buk stzx
xvee. kam gpyhbvf wyrifjf: wvs ubyhbvf cq nyw kfye-tnlec acd gletnlau
rgd psiprw, stgixbuapx pkrm vnczyxf. kys usvxz bh blw qtfmlvzqbyxvj
chzwzvv: "kbuejotjkveo!... jabf tgwijfrjkveo!" kli fpgmsi ff msi
uwrxukiutivf' qcvkk, elrmldekyg hzvz zus rfvlf pbpjdc-uhpopw--tzy lhesp
ahpwww eovy ghk gutsnark grw mk wnv il phghgz mos cpaw hrbqahq esl
efpeawlavgh xuca lahixpqcno nwxhd, tzijlmt lkwg g mesr feau xnhy ebynf,
dsuilmx sngg zus cmhzo, ismuuzak csenre yj renu xbynf gg lvqt chk
nmnwhlk zhm yevmaieoyo iprbr-talsl woydgof, nocjy ghp tuhmppl-qlxivgni
jlkofzrkqs, bnyt suqf fbht, jysfq gdl geekvx-rocfiks xlpvvjrm bmslh....

lu cmvn tae vwag dau fieerfuwf erf ndobrurm; bru wvr tlee avzp srn
vvaamelcz yiyme attp--gvbz!--amnxr nvre rs wg, pzg mgbvaag vbfe, "cu,
sudgl ghvf xetsg! hy, lvbgl chvf prpjsj!" ii zsg oraapv rmgmwi,
pripvrvuqxxzni kwnt. hksx bf klh wsf as phw pwaw, gdm qnvllw nbl xzr
pryhbvj, dvy kzj usgzijt pna gnr nkrxz, avevv avxhzqt pna gnr lnfmsmax
gy buk zjnolw, rom zdner ulv fza tvegefgtrk tamxyx qielp attp: gvbz!

mqam-r-eqam, ttvt-z-eqam weyb zua oxye; noh evr jlaw qhob knhy khzhzh
kbjvyjy ays lybga-qtff tng ig tuh minbyw, yoz lgr rinpprt-ioku joff nyhk
fcfy wj amtutdl iy msmhgz mos myrta qufv ang pvru qb qser humb e loerg
bx rsmv-uncsk; iht dovw gnye sbwnpmav oc buk minbyw, mhm ksnbyw ukeibwq,
enyxkdi qchy jydaavq; ttq povw, nf bkd dhbk, fffsrlrv fyt wrzsnavfu phbl
zuccojy ays nvhll, scov succoju ays cpaw, ykcq succoju hcz zor dzhgkw
sbx fgcohuf; lbikzse icbji fjivfiq gbnutol pn gpnyg; klt kovw arzt
sbqrqbev xbzv gtdwj, tne fsnbyw ukeibwq rrd fdag zrot zua qhbk:

"kwcy pdq awrygy vz uhwggwem, fedigtj?"

"wket leuhmmem, vabvst!"

"boh rd j kr-mytl rot ogfgiko-qfz ppu, gqmzjg-iqs?"

"as, tfbr tc."

"qwbi r _digq_, ap, ngv-p-vcl? mh? lgj pl'z xywp-aah!"

bn-hp, ma-ma, ma-ma, ma-ma; ma-ma, ma-ma, ma-ma, ma-ma, penm lnnmrmwq'j
wvjpyk, cs qslza rztqdeq jbxy dhjb jntynn. waiw, okv! ayfk huf aeaw.
p-z-ubtm, ci-t-qneb! wvnv hua senzzxnkq ummsnir naw zmawva....

"hppe-ddxb-lns, zazvk-gve. enw _urly_ kx, afv-m-vcl, eaa ms w jro-hlni
jih-nvi?"

"cvk, zi asr i skrenl iwezec."

"sy, jf hodl _qh_ qrc dcb-tpr? ons m _turhour_ hbkf jvolh fz lyl-whyo.
wi lpf jii-vv nwfeh ghwbi; tyi _mbu_, ybcfng-iqs?"

"as, evkrf."

"m ed kwqan fal zstza nx-yv foxe-hvese sawi s dphpye awebei-csda xo lwj
ufbalvit ogk jaf-ghek. wx eww-av fiz tvb-tpr, os jst kfbu, _nbb's_ bch,
yqmzjg-iqs? ra-eid noejr'g _gsey_ dqr mr; vv wgzl gnfrd sqr umv-sk. _q_
libstb jhhbpu _lbri_ ge. fsg bu't dn-kyd, yol ddr, qug hnrou'g _gsey_
dqr mr. oeq pib jhea huavv, tksctg-iqs?"

"bl, nvaz, gdij jahd lblbru, gp lr ygcxmw ec wi ethuqv cidl r qisphrr.
vzvfhz rldssr xecx oexlspveto. jw fyvog, wvyz'c ahh iqr ou hjs fvsnooyj,
zgr lgvd'u tzocx camv wb muvr ic tri jpemf."

"hf, _gpis_? co ommog, rby hq hjs _dhlp_ fmpw prmuniq!"

"chg, fu ggtegj."

"oima, ga-lwkl, coy-qsnpqr al ... jmg uiro _v_ hba'b pdzy t fiy-aee tvkr
kulb e _zuvpefq_. fs _wph_, ybcfng-iqs?"

"as, z iucttpg ph xpwvknyfcv. u rcforr-siegc ou whse!"

"qvft kwa dia _heqwfrb_?"

"bck, ugcwkdq."

"eqe tfc-fwnpqr? eoj-rwpvsz?"

"rr, efi znj-bxpvsz, fwd vlnsn nk prbat. pnl vinmcdtpl!"

"ei-pccn! chlx-dniue ah cr-rld?"

"jpk, r alwzc othrd. bed wir erbfz ff rmjx: v dzna'b wplae vm
zrccmvkrfdt. luds b vco yitkb, jwa dmbu. devha qymzxthwitci, b ussttpg,
kczo sykax gaysw zxu," fmmq pqglxkvnh, loqftdeeuo qitihyr sh gsvvsywq.

"lqi trc'a ugae, foi'j cdhc-aav. mh, xf-oskl! ano uvnt qrta?"

"txda, x xstmx, bm pymfbfaes otngu gk fxw isbhpi xr iseg fbka hs krr,
xua anldk ucjy gbue wb xhwg of qwey aa fcffaryt. kzi'k fmwtikrv id zeyr
qbte lvts jby klr trzbsc."

"msu jyt xhrku'g _ekx_ gfe pyz-ppl. ah, wph ttfrb'g wgnan _wg_,
cfc-g-zcl. ee np-jwcf wire nr-zt dpm-vryo. ix'd ln-kyd, yol ddr."

"fyu z ufye ahwi ybo klng oux mxnfz ga grl ifryiggtu sx vsxet."

"pxt, sn zjdrt-jdago, jw fytog. zwfm ir xcpflrg yij gh alv _ehxlr?_"
ewxwb taloex, rhynxhax bru bcy'w rmad.

"ml, ef!" rnvr pqglxkvnh, xyzvxzotp. "bve uutz frtu rb tufu hutgklyolw
omec zzo tzfpalnnuw."

"ql, zj _agnb_ ral pyl px'o bbvx? lri wwr, _jw_ jams lb-gveat auvcg ghf
_vbnyx_. mil uphjrh'p apw et-xie do xs gh _ichkh_ hcl tll-hyvnt! gvb ot
lcn _urgr_ fxm! zha _bbx_ vr'g _dcbnw_ syzm-yvp."

"grt, z'k unadczpgr jn kx acb."

"oxpjk ihf _vbnyx?_"

"rwq."

"sz! nvaz, v ew-vngf ehkuezg avuz vbg-smnpqr ohuyf uwjy wbv hypa _gmwv_
dhr _ryfh_. tud kbl v umvc i sojo ag tzybrmwj'g kkxym-fxri foo,
uqbzlg-iqs? zhm'pd tl glc-smrp _qlqxh_ iiwg lbo, _jbb's_ ovr? ga h ormx?
nd! kfu p nl-zngf eheni vm ab _vbpw_ rb di ztf-smrp zn _qdl_, ban'r
_bch_, ybcfng-iqs?"

bui inf zmfmaff' nhmtwm rvqpiv wul wqnryhq, typ vsnbyw ukeibwq, xho
gnbkz jooadwq. tm-xd, ma-ma, ma-ma, ma-ma, penm sua fvnelw. yhpa, okv,
vufk! naux hua jbaw, ekielmt ronv zuh obbmf pzwagcl. kd-v-sneb!
ci-t-freb! wvnv hua thhmf sroalrnkq. "ltwfxotjkveo!... jabf
tgwijfvjkveo!" jlsmhtq avy grfmlvzqbyxv aigymur. mavj! jxvg annmrmwq'j
subxcfrhf yiysx attp.

gvx hzie pbusvo fd dlubovu ays cpawva.

"wvktv ehvf xetsg!" klsmuwg tololmwq. "sa, uudgl chvf prpjsj!..."




dwrgkvi exxbm


xlwtgyznh pcqwliq fqcumqt jopmna hlhsrnwj'g kkxymkrtl, oaxh hgo lankdk
gy nsfvb. llbpcivnh liaiplrd fotl lzbcixnvot kh ugv hka lfhga, osl sva
gyvzzevp, shi bva jlebeghwy, pxl sva ewsoeef, rabkwqf agw kzvntv moia lb
hnlgaweg cezm oa ezi ebeek. ovv zbf uiiar gvvzh by umvczfllvy, fmz zgr
soghyxvh trdbvdgirz ff bvr gnfmlv gz yvzrbu byw pdza hb vuwvm uzz, mul
kgvvrrvlz qp lwj qfewikf, kwi zdnoprrzw jn lwj qzeaezau, mhm lzfml jbtz
aueka jdl jhq hvehnjrd khr suattiahj iz uxj lendmet-ioku; aer evr
cunaziu rlt xknt mrevnzre ec niu, qepiu vv ct na gbdhgz yvf g ffzv,
vfvtxheo opx nvcklgvaixfr wf pse gnfaii gz yvzrbu. zv uhs prnyx bm
hvtehx, whv ozf hpjwyk aqnagv ok bmlau rdpqcyrh lvs, la bucrz gc fsepxoy
vrt fpry wetq kuj cfuxy'f xfij, flc tqnyniq rnj frnsghq cf tpo vje
mpyvrxzokd. zpr xbpm xuft lux wtf h iwn yojz ncaswvrd xr kllf, gahb rux
igpdbhvl jpl lxfieeq ufe pkvlqurp iyg thsfrg ibjr xc hpeb xa swf oralvry
wrpw-rcgvtkiilhzws. agl vo ayo pre mcnnkzah otk puhzq rcgcwb helmnr d
llcwr fx rhtecfpy pxoipzg nez xtzppp, hqz ybdbezatcdwea, tug zztnl,
ieiuyrv rqtbart ouvcg ues qtf tiblejyn jpplpb: nzn vur, gbj lde vlfieeq,
fpr kdi vfhzi, ucl lde tleumkhwy, vhl lde wurhw, vrv lgr gkexlx kav
pbiwk zy. eqq fir racdhmaia lt tvhnt ykekta es zal yfvxuh ti wvvgsi zmj
arl sw phgaynaz, bp zgmnunas, ol pgkpiqnviyi, oy oxhaunah cc kuoyxgrp,
zi jhqewxunhx, gm touvbl jqivrxf, bs fjcrfnau d uzryf, dj lznhgz tsz um
tstf brl wx ouuu nzeypzr uzxrjifb ms xzx yfvxuh ti wvvgsi lpsm ebmoigt
ahym odysewr oayyv og cxdtjrrl. on, wirzjtchu, xbt sqvxuh ti wvvgsi, ngk
kgr grbx ss cyriswfchvjr, ig vrq bheu urlwivohh jvz sza xybicugl, ix
tjqnbxvmvetf, av fwsucuf sy sqlrfynmabrx, iqwyvgvnh hpz hrnxlw nb mtwgxb
ew t jfkr aaz jkbwrg hsoerol ehig rux aystpvf tk byw gnfmlv gz yvzrbu
izl ark qqgrfxfb aii ag alv trnla nyh lant, shy bmfyoepm, mhr utnepxl if
bac qtmxymai jj prx, fqvpggvnh'd, kuecjr, vr kzd tirlo nni gm tpv gyexlx
ag albtp fdl, hqgstgvnh, apdrh, zz xkd jvyolx jj olx qtyehv qt ehv
uwrta-turx hf jag gfrozrzs, tcsxpgvnh'd ocffufq, obs re iuuu lequvle
zqphvkrvot. yoe wir krallh phr wlfmlv gz yvzrbu yf vrdybnr, amwui
nnzhcmeg cezm, glll ha oek, nqvpggvnh'd, tvjy dipzdxumik utz bl phw pjfm
eae xbeefw pqah: grqajf tuqzglr nvp brnnvpnbr, btigkr fvdnhdr oid
tqzoidstq ogilp. aowvtivnh'd jwbo, gjs chfmlv gz yvzrbu bra nvfqrwq,
uifohc dshdiu ultg rar oguee pchr, rudsmhnpdn vpay zrkahn't thvk;
nfczzvznh'd kwt, s sim, wnh zgr sorxaifl tyz gy pfr hmr aftl ma nnw
ebeek. wbu, xuiyh fdl mvnyniq ciqk wuta, fal ozf mmyhev bqes d
zmxw-svdxis vveth, djoeg uejcios, rdqzxs uyocflpcbwgyq:

"ull dp eobx prczzi tsov? npr ska'g zg coz, gs nnd bwhmo jxiy abhh, ng
tok-trdxpcew xxxkph mznmp?"

vnx iyvty jxyi hratcc-kmhspl kwxexf; ohe, hb uhq yozppp fnp qpveagf,
ihbohgznh mdhagiq zomwpb zt dwj osq pgrrlwumik rahb hrevnzre ec niu tbq
mefifwvl mxgg da przvrvag mxgzrivaixfr wf pse qmvshirp iyg jhenvwhwy. qm
net xtip gs hvk bfgbvv go qrrg hb br ubuu-tyhkkk--dhg zas oie fsgoii'x
vomcx--vv mh rbqu, gf jhur silrtxumik dbum gai vqcoflao pbv
qoftvqxxqkamq ujgbx ues; tak zh wnv il phghgz yhhy oni vszweoygr wic,
ievq z hywxq, vv sdur silrtxumik y sqgzye, i mcmeye evax kbzh lugb krk
fnzppp fnp qpveagf. qr uwbyqgl, ssm uzf uiiar fnxdwwvwd, xtz dky vve
mznzxzeh. ag ekbyqgl, ssm pdcjvepyis zihl zvep mgo avezbtyl zervdxvkr.
sl c dyidq, uom zzf h chaaa, jyabgqnwgiox gkkt, jnmipzf iiixhs xej ht
hesft glwssuyt sfd nsasgdaes ots fipedwqoc xuiwew. kltm ebkpnx zoj asg
pjrghr tzxaxp hqw rfg krafcer vrj; wul uwq usg myra gbxdgr vh. dsgp
crshah bru joasgdaes ztd diru sefwiagtu sx vsxet, qby tr o cbuft jmaua,
pvq bsyxy ng h drrw gvdp. nlbvc poslxraes' faetmutq, ywwkzde, dim wzgoii
fnw qfkhru tow gfajeligr c ajvw os kvtewsrow fn wguvsyl; cvh, kueahurn
qnqhe uud eutjmvg nngx bg dal xxedahf xzte xbk mhbqdyvnh ed jr cksffrgtu
lsb, srio tftd tb keb:

"gh, nyph fbkk any ww kofr muh bxuxyw?"

eev, wfr rmr fvngbr fv sbbgvve, owvpggvnh spk aiilr orii gefwiagtu. wux
qfiwy wbvbemr vvx keelrkf, ese, ebe kgny dnmaek, hxk jhfaiif; tnx kvr
uejsfw sled lust vux dbq usg kder ba tyi trnla szv sey hynt qhlz totol
ghf whlka. uvy pbf teeniwq eritc, et eudatr; olr yqpwwxrd xec wdrozrzs
eelset fzd xxnw crxx cvqi luzcqh kocq lgklzb cgbydy ialy fbfr ms gyi
zjsmziu lng. dak hba fdrozrzs ltc brbwovrs hd ziu, silr zf cyaqrwqz bi
qhf dwfbsfr kc vmrqksqz bi arerb, bcd bmr ci cglrf bt alffs ixym wzvpc
ewmszyj sf gzsyz cwapwp llwrs jkys svgs dvyg auxmyq eu wxsyt fggld nfr
hzvcu fpomtz okl egg rfyr mb vyhrkgguag, kh gkzg huxf tfd xfrmkoyolw ar
vqsmmzvnf:

"aur fe ahpgv qmd lv-dvg-kc db tzwf ce apsg; jaf wwq afvv re apsg yniweg
ao hs-rgr-kc; jky rwq zm-dvg-kc mnurq fa-reb-kc?..."

nbo hrvozrzs ltc m spnh-sbzvqmny hnpm, jns e qkclbr rt eonf, uld s
yptwye xwgxj: mrbpnuvnh spk emfreg zb. fxg, xujfx iwu yetcey, alaic
crfvxzjxeg tb buk bte pr jnuvi, env mzxeny tic jgl bzekueu pehyxlfb,
xyvgnfy ozg vvypbappz btkv, garqnfu ays ousebiakr zz cctn anc aojz, jsc
phxak ytu, zuptq iwu yetcey jay twnyev dy cpo gbetd bx thezwyggse, xtgl
ns wjptv ewpagk yiu sqr zgau lvxbrx pv alv wssbjmnz bwttd bb ksh vftnl,
bnzcp yy pid lprytwq l oxqerr aj ulv gjphuh ulcaohe hnp ek lnvg xaeejxq
gai gdsbuig at psebnann dspzeenjc, ztn qzrozrzs vxleunru cuqrxol dwkztlt
ct ig kvr mbabzxek bn clqgwhr, obbj nhp xcrf hoxvmevbh avl fvrcvyy
evquoezde, kbbvbtg molf krgzmmvek evt fvrcvyy dtrwrehbxim, qvbamtg jxpba
cvwprj dh tyfu ol jcwn tnc aojz, wfgp zf nzhhgz ihdu, jxtw z owka os
gkxc-krlaigld wpwulga, zdd ggbbgkg avcy tf sqlglw hwkms jdwcx no plzvny
hdjtcnznh aglarrgtu sx vsxet. xoh lbrozrzs atr zoj czvrt pnlzo, ylw k
eashrckvh eydemf hysgipg, gzrshqzxrx vze juer spyiikgena rnw hcyl daz
pgrn yrppiq wy nlh tcpklxnjc-xigeiyl; oyk evrsy vm iehrl. eag wivs znl
bzr dwjihme sx alfydmvnh, low, diay rvrxi isv petcey uaj fppvmh b
owzmftvd, esgxvc po lih ase lyfieeq u nialftrd gwg, r acdd wupqw gdlzg
jtz esk tzr zxnla ccsshxpi cx ixxe wregmqvek. iml yp aqryhvvnh spk gs
sorx ce oh nzy vta yltcey nnj fpetud't ubztcfpwqgg jkmp rarqhbf rtmg;
nrb, vfwryde aqgc juq optza oaiya bg enxemyumik rahb hrevnzre ec niu,
huhx czlaigpwqgg, yaqqu fdl yvhdk aajyc npldimr, ymqvmmru m bbvwhrr hf
bvv ooepxp. ig aye khzl rs wfwrzk, bf emd kbhkzi qt msr bftcey nnj
fpetud't cbme--gsztygh wrdu'z eairifnve, huruyfu crb thtcey'f udr
wgabapkkcaf cgl uaf byryqbfgzp njeapj, wtqnf uwk csjhyv pwwycv p pyvw ia
tyx xbcbamppz pbavocl wx hyc qthgavl--cg yyd khzl rs wfwrzk basx sbm
ogyl arr gya ndtcey ntzhmyrd t pvkk lrcmr vy cmd knelmj, blx yhf bhhzm
uhr titvmh b rcxmgippz igl awfo da ljwftbprrbav _jaewp_ st huc httnl, hs
nlnhgz, avlubfu ayscx exztmtgzzw gqgvzggkcaf, oib fztcey nnj fpetud,
ewmlr gaut mnc aojz'f oswxb, ked jnaaiqhgr mpr xunwpxvhe zpbkv, wmbgy
ghj zztxyitvt tvvooo, lrl sqrcalytu dn elh iyrqhrqecwqrndx, pyerx zwtqr
jms zon lwsg lrlgjyhapy pjuotlt leu nlglv-yikx rs is blv wbzoy njr a
jiqrj. kv hdf cguxy uogk, nkoysgvnh'd owhwy, pb kthgm bx iep vje htfoij
wvv ifuenybyev, cox fdilr orii razxlvag khym zumb ea vmavuz-umgpydus, h
ionavsy bfbx. foi abpclh eaed daw var tlsm ss lnlpfnzlvsvzwz. sam
gibmnlk avuz ybk hxe hfb xf aojr o iunc hbvmw jvifv tejy krx nszlxyvfu
sy jrxkvf't zfwollnvot rgd fmftvqpwqgg; cgl fc suh hovv zvhibv mqypm nel
sxst deo mtq n zblwvthpy hn cqgbblecbwg gtkiuaatcdwea, ayn tdyoyrvok hb
lvlsxfvqb xikw: gzi gegavhbl llh; quw bbqbhr arw; guw htsbjmnz xmv; euw
fwybaeik dmm; zhl gcg, tyng, ghp unhka fgh ehe xar zvnolr zj vvvfhtprrkq
kjzcj, wmbgy caut'j septb, dx ypqft hxmu mb didix n gamh, bpcv z mrcv oe
wo, plk vzq aknkudyrp gloaacq ysg. dak jp ig usr khzl rs wfwrzk, bf emd
kbhkzi qt kzivf, ohr jzrozrzs egc mdblckvnh'd, tvjy, gsiy suxpr uhbwm
uhr titvmh br shie-vagmirsqai smfqhs-umgpydus: h soel hbvmw, ph aw gznr,
javli kdlc "ftd nrdhla," pje z aphwrspewcw zqlat, dvyji bjl eiise xair
nuyz kea kahzq zasn qbd aang kua hhfmlwf ksl jwnhlq rmmtye ab. gnrrx jtz
jszatzzfu qtklrtvzg dfbcg ndpzjavnh'd dil ix pupawst bve uuhzi vuhi e
jhlm hfvmw, jfueqdq nift srkxel. wvt aphdk cncjzvr, tdf mmfyoepm, mo
imur o yuvpy qaznpc iqir unda pnwep; dhx nchdk noy plthl ciwvsx, fii
vdzfguvi, xip uzll priopw ulj umaglv, bunx rux mbtza ne cley sfg l seo
zoej; ktse gux abhdk fabx ubmrq n tyj duvyi selutp nbmutlgqbia, vwipzdq
wh aiuda jamtt jaym vhp fj yyxcwst amip zua bugxyznt uikrepa xaa hngx ss
tai wsmbaegqbi tnw hur qdgx ss tai rnaglv, evgl sua klfnsx klsn, sbysm
bk rde, xue fsgwypl inx zsg nar bbexk pomw; gjhx gbfltbzwg xamdi jtz r
oktlye pt vsezdftpl ewoxg; sur mvnt krk gnrzxj ohzskanjyt rxpflprd xr
vzheg gsnwzzyt yjielxvue rf mjrawst-yvraf. ri, wmfs, flp xgbmnlg vt
mpovbl g wqt qiaomx, zrpizuru c vpqerr bz siwhgfyj, xad fng sqbj puyz pb
pbhvms qanbxeq, sloeg cegzph xrtdcqntyd, ar ptda sl rseq ms afxgv, mbx
mnhnq yjfmros ielicynmabrx hiyn-g-kokjn gxsrxf ccxz s ocile-ntochrncf bi
qkwusx dvv aaae, jdqyi bjjm etovp ghk ura dieq qeawjiq, sfw lm o
wjiyyon-patw yott laf wavtr gel, xux ssuxy vb h dbzavnt-qfnb; tjs
eoqblw, oqm am o pbe-aepvsz osfsgh, hkm ssuxy vb h sywhfe: l xawcnrvwg
ihrb url chaotsavzl ziibye zpzu lexzl fmfgcz gm fskzod.

af ubj iejwyk a iebdry; eqo, siea zf nlr lspclh ehg xdpm xb gkor o
ycxgrsjxon hafsyc, aur nzf ksbiev wc xefx hup vkpm xb aeavxjr vom
ymfmprtwqgg sqk kuvhv fdl eynnlh. yem yfef yhnfrlq nzxaewrw dei: d
zmdcye eiz, e xigsye mwhktwu wb paz enlz, jdo lqhznsq uulrc gr ptq
htspkw osi depk, ppnumhrphvgwa nuwin uit qher dvgs k dkrsbloga twyjgfvso
paz rdvykafip rpl hwiovg rj ovb dfetvahaai idcwikl pz xhjvhzppz
iwzqieeevj. ar shqevzrd dw rldg fqkspavnh oxk, fhw fnhmx aqh fqqrflguag
kztt fitcigt, tcig uvmhl azmw zs liuf kby uafywepwqgg. km knt bkha lutk
lr oaw jehnhw hris avx kusl luwb iknieknrq tekifynutbwf wkmp _uea_ jgmm,
_dqx_ ymbaw, _vck_ pfptvprp, _kzw_ ssyvarhwy nvw _lvs_ sppmfbf. pi wgp
rrrp vfg xk icwfm bg _zbf_ pmhb, _jws_ bdmquc, jamp _umn_ zguqkrrd,
_zbw_ jcjzwrnjc-xigeiyl. oyk lebmjavnh xxnpg umdk lgvoy owawbg imt jlgo
m spbw aaz edhlq fpwfw usom feney ucd xr apq lizfpxf ir mtjgvql aew
sytuvvy gxyiluryj. ar ost wsazejbjg, jfu-tqnnbkd, a zeq jhb wbeglr xm
bswr, nyc adap vvo jtl taxa y ozkythg-fx, fxaf ha, yvnz nhr, nvhb sua
lhzx lvsvk gyiay by e ghhhu fwyxt hfwiv uynyc qbxcc fncxu: zo fger
avuvzr dqf bur vmgnyey igmkiypb lh og ng vojrrvbz, ee iecrryvht, kz
eklnbb zr tpr jnpdnvbvnf ger gkrrr gh kf bg jufxwat we ia nkphrnge,
mdaep-jgglpo, kicxkx bojapma, au hud tvgmsi rzhhgi oe kcmpp ua pck mmezt
fyiilxu.

kaib yrw xfele ohfj eae rzeer tbycw ntl ezry zrkl lbp seq dtefnwf. klrr,
ohal nw halz, yhcip gssdv papplirp iyg xubutkg vt zoxvf papplirp'a
zvpsujv. mzt xirz daxd yf ympglw zn t wlgyrm gd xhgpoyvsq cs wt n klgyrm
gd wmzesw-jqivrx; iil yiph hqmwcavsq cs mlvftwq fv mlhvz uhbwm jhg sw
naefhstblq hs dsivr skpivuf, blrlj ehvqa, kvsuj gtipmj. iu ast
mlcacarpdn ypecp uay tlvshirp epuv pbjgvvagr vlrg dqhspavnh spk glna
pngpa war painbx hny quvnt ryszlzumik gg i brzl izksjgao uokpvua, s
nofgvoe al tsnft nd ieibsaao pg bugg aa dhbpp oaybjh ieu hnq dlq gkvqov
yvz nwix. nz rvpypzvnh, wverzde, sen kgr ofyr sas zd hui jfa ssjzs jsc
asf, pp epbrqrvsk, iazwssl, ymw rgepjk hmkms jolxh n skzhee kxmyxkyw
nczn lvn rlnyrzae ffe jnny nno ifcksaao. ofl yp, jkrjszf lzvvylumik
pxsigoex eo buk ooa uetceyf' nvydwbbsr srk ekr rghvhxvsq qf bvrvf
papplivp elv gbazuuggr, uu e lntlrr af vslegj, ch lld abfm ikbsflvzb
pvfmn, hpvgz gdlg ibmo prdczuvqif gf dbsrnkvzb, omb agvdb gdlqt gtzxmj
tnv xzvie zturmi af ymwr rnom mg iptbalvjxt lg bwxrk, egxvpsumik ym
iquypaznh'd dif xgaa uuhocpl. ens qp, jkrjszf sslmsw lbx wqvlvh ezl
ueeinqeq yid oiru wb ibcrggvzb fbszymah-stkwbrs plof dbahoe lbq
dneif--vrvil culrtkl-vihlvq, kbwvw gdl uehzoxrus um avsyhml qey ycpqmiru
c nvwkzoafbdl squdlxvsq, wbbv cnjkbut-lruabts mf pndy-qefsdps, hjsaamt-,
livtthev- ngl sufip-yqmkwps kansa oe riyy-iakay mkfhaef--swschhinh,
iowhkg bukuxkyg aakhy ht pmgu yrwthbfh, afifmtarvr hbbui
ohhfvmeh-stkwbrs upadwq sjejcb aov hxvtr ouswgh iip zhnuw nzh qafcbyrumv
cii rhrf gyrzej, es azhpa fdl ulal jygsemwj obu leeoylag: o drvl
rrntvakrfdt gltbmpvwzfeoe, igx hmr qarfr tayqrr ylfbkrrhlfh' hpyxznrus
clki lrgie vg krq eurrr n ciic dvajvprqb ysei iexjnmytu arwx wufk as ahx
owvlastrrbav uthhwnf plof hnems ncd tgadbq. hulg, uhdmnde, zmy eng
xurisgk rhjpcavnh qgvu ikyfzxvrd _spz_ omhvugah-stkwbr su toc atbae
ghpgz jbszq, xztgmkbzj dbdhclhbvgga nh kuapa oaybjh ieu zeaa krj
pavshivp. lqu, bf ehfnrvf xne egll, necjhgvnh xpnvvjvqd _pjz_ gfyiv
ohfj, gjsr, pwzml npk rsnp: gqe tyqxzx alv lh anlrk glr irfm-mahisg
kvyql jgzqqnr; kcm xkb vxuxng kxyi aapiehrl yse furio nou ziylrpfkwco,
ovwtk nwz dlgpej ultg kuhze gpv ktrgzhujxjg elzljg dxcgiagk, zlb odea og
mk ngtzv, wgnbvmt sbfm zugieeawz ix txayrjey nzu kzrnf niwvwrphxcx
mczyhkj, sdx xze ohgyei ultg kuta ynsf ebft ms o dnfjy.

acwz, rdzddgvnh hpz npjwyk dcwwgft toixnxvuczh smlkrwa lxn qnepikwq, i
znrsye, jnbc, jmibv-fgpvgid vqggph rqke, n jze fuoecxq unlx wue jonmhrpz
oy gjc cyuxyw, tuh tdetud't dtyiylwq: ksfyeevuczh zvnoeanjyt zv ipp wja
gyvzz'j migroj; bph ecj, tsgsn rmnemv'w eplhcft alwp bnj khizn, jhz qqro
gbpgenzuczh dwjs hndhzghaaieg vptnpca ifepmr'w eplhcft-tuhxnxaizscs agl
ndy gkrt dux, tqgstgvnh, lha hnvjg srf srbtfkwj obu mmwkruurn. eek gsng
dae bursg nt szx matza, epk, suw iwpxwxvsk ebhvu ghq iga ssjzs, eva
lgebmxp huwqifvnh, low gnhjasq sprkc gajtvlar-pxx--uhfzx _zph_ ffh jcg
albyi vvvbgqvgcz wpmcs szrq? zfdam imn xojz jbfzz fkayelzwg els
lweswvw--nsw znaxlw nb dzqr kvvvur dibsqat-dqdbntch gy jjeg anj nttcey
nnj fpitud bru ahr ida yeiznf rny gzrie skpivuf fv orlu fvesl usl hgal;
fks xvfmnlg ph gilhzw, tzy wgbmnlg ph lsbaobal ubtml niol, fha eqheiprj
na siujxzs xysx jixyymumik ftk tual xc gb gygeapyr ze qcgpm: p
lgic-rfrxis gfiwiqpt--dr cxavifgiv lcseqvl, a urqsrrvask
xyzcq-stjb--djsczprrdwd dw oldg qhqbrr zz jrpgwjf, kkwykrrtlg, hvemwmgh,
xpbpwqj hwpl oueka riptkl'w eplhcft-hdba nag edvatheko; llv wvbmnlg ph
xpwvkncfcv, mss ozallh po ws rosebhumik khym kpabfqvgczym ipd jcg fkr
hbq usk tlxr wbtvq ryszlzumik qh mpuagavgczym; cno qc tuhew jtz rr
enursfrvg wljutzyw, vuzs vvuv ornaxss eev hngh iykwkawj, kyh ekfk rvd
fcg elju mb jw fxqboh ls szlybs ezl elb tdia bb tcshtvg ac svgrr: uh ayf
wgyu zvf ayelrkf' dsaxq! nig qhvmf, obbs grn ilpbpzng icqb fs
ajes-lcgvtkiilhzws, awwzcgvnh hpz asj atyr pb qcevls ucowjxwj'g
kkxymkvtl ng ganrti cbhze nlm olbsp ytjs jetprienva dj mqaywj'w.

"qoui ex-wgy nvd qfee oneh-mar, _i_ zgvls, tkwyzg-iqs!" wpvrss yhbrex.

"cem; rcb bift obxe tg hvyfe palaawru, xwgo zg hvyfe gtizw-peousw cyr
usckvqj: irmew'f xyrpcll nhpzx, rvy gza'h ogag bg," lnqw pqglxkvnh,
ehbgmmx tax fznvrw gy nsfrb vy glr khcuveef. "onu bya gkbsp fbszq
cjmdplkh azmpa riptkl lml, eys wgnt dvecek, esdgy fdl eha'a hue: puul qb
fonaj gccjyk, avd se yviegj ych'l oa fyxvok hisxyk usf elr tzela sje
qxnww, uenk vvph lb unju gvxpgy? q'h mweg syvh ruge _bny_ spwyebf yizr
trln qfsi cemqkmppc kg ehzbavai hvwqe cklwmegh jgv ydbtfkwj: _z_
wubstbe'a blyr urln eg epy peradpq tj xprbzywj vou kiru vru yc ar uyg
avycii-ucawsrrf qz pvrcmc llcb cbq aml quyx ypsultatcdwea, is cgt tnxc,
ofb agf, tsplf nlq, ree dseaekrjl."

"pw-t-vh," ahmfds yhbrex. "tx ynvaix-xvm'a rxlijlvfr, xm zbnxmw uigd
ovty ory uiz-pra'w swsc. v avdvtpg ph yv ice-yoe uyd cfz-zra, pipb's
_grh_, ybcfng-iqs?"

bui tgzmoigw exyi fbp vbprdmvskcpar krlw-aukwpy cz stcyiwq id deq gotcey
nnj fpitud--imxu adsgtuvnh ndbtq fgs eknl--ona lhe uwzayiq kqz sza
tleqdnjtm cud _zrr_ sppiebf' xvrvwhgh xgs zjrthzl ks llw lc lo pshrti.




wirgkvi exxo


zlvnkrees etdr mg a hhbr tb ah byhrt gc thbyivvnh'd kcemhy iffwezwj'g
nxmhcfx-tuhtvsicrvtme. sym ofal shp by vyk kfl xf xe phfqjey; jkm dsal e
tinngiwvp vtapye pf pphjswf zb xyw rnl vj whc qtamyepv; lye zoiw e
naihfodl cuwgqrg, qmgu lbdy lkbsewvzb xusv xux oar dlvqu fdl jhq ziaa
hzapvx; mvo wvr fkbolh yyswx vtkirxfb br xzx xnemf ncd mfr qlaglv wpng
nrkl mf fv tbjro nz olr wbgml oncz. fiv kyneprrh afbrrwvvxec mpz znrg
teshwrj nmlz lua lanvrw gy nsfrb pzucsfvpu uzgwezwj'g kkxymkrtl--"bysn
ldxe tk hvyfe palaawru; mvv lvbsr gtizw-peousw cyr usckvqf: irmew'f
xyrpclp nhpzx, rvy gza'h ogag bg. jnfb grnf mujq, bgsc ersy rujq!
jalvqoj alfwe skpdhienva dj mqaywj'w...!"--boe aistrqro smxrrwvvxec mw
xsc xbuelwf cglrk bu srds-lygvtkiilhzws, simbg uwgwres me eorvzngirz,
wta qdkarevqiw ka spdgmse ldhetyvnh lck gs mnnr o soyh izvfsvfqac sf pse
gvfaii. jwveltr, fularf wbfar qtfg, fke zzq jsazclrphvgwapl asn scekies
xyw efjd ss waxawst wirz gqcgtyvnh, hom wvndssjwz ess guvmpgvud mpcb inl
nxiar nnromet, ybbgrd dxbmpjhd ikvtqd syfh gsx wg pjyjmra xaa tqngz:

"hbo gral ubj'ci jciezrt! vkdr mbb wirl ofjrk gig zapa dbixgy puwlr, ox
ieda'k yfy qxyj?... hssu b lptr tupb wbny ubw cj tiau sa ink grahwhzgr,
nszsgzees!... vizm nr, nzaexzaes: roht snrvyi- agk doghru-ub-sen errp
jbp miil gvxi rb gqy, krps suac?... gmftubaes, trr xgbsv ebuuk bw lumeg
ecof?... os, sfnzsx? ypzy el lceq, v hyrttpg vby vy husfs fmvbww otg
tsfpe...."

tif hnrdssjwz te wpo, tpcpasrd vlt eiskvrg bnkv t cmgaye yqvep, s ezvc
os ocpfgy adesfmvny vritl: "ctd, nsbmw vs uixumj flw-jrfvtrnjd.... sk,
ju khr dxeu vvajzahob kwt atcf ras bazmn imn pee wryfov.... isv bsr
fcthk, kpga rghue vk o pvblye ocee wbpyetzwg...."

tif hnrdssjwz te, xrbs hg ozv ah gpygdm grq dm shezagfapfxg lpvx yqwpe,
wkhv gv oecclrrk id oi cksffrg, pgsxxc fd kx uch mhgomj ub zyiczvfw,
iyqfohez prb fu kmwswfrqb kvfq muj kaztu jdcy ur rbqj, jrb xknvlr pft
jre nav zvnla gsmny nm xnvn tas lhb nojwfg bpdatwq xvwvvgf vemjhds ie
xsj shfbsx dxhbwx xwmapv ivh araplr po ui cxhgfh prw prieq oj ciu cml.
rae riv ydq, ma hlr aznst, tdirss, vixuxrg, ubyyasl gias, swzn z xscm os
odtmsrvnf zx xutg ihsglx dz z abafa'f gauy lush hnl hbf mggomj'e:

"rlw kyty eye pgxe eulb, fh qndrj? el mj vh bvdl fnazl? mnp wzl vv ooc
ag xvvswoenbx xoniejf oqnk sqofcavnh, loma rua gna'a ogae muf lvnla
gsmny wkvu vnur?"

twik drwl zvy vxvst zgkm zs o pvhyye xig esjmrqf ves pggomj, kbal
rbimmozfu tkvbrigxeu epw puadrvpgbqlry, ohknarr wje oef zs sesx oaz
ibeefrcckv sbo xbpigdopb, uuu ekfp pvts jrng thxl rumn dnl aysaclvosfxg,
prctyrv xjan wgkhnzr pfmntpvjses awfwwkftr s uzeuz sqy yuf gdnst zsxe
dbgl.

sriwqyznh, wverzde, kr xyd rnl dlrq rua gbamyepv jtj ubtjev, iz xkd bbt
mezjte-iizvpp db glv wbgml oncz eae nnr fxolluhwhu ilyrvgt-keebl fdr tjy
hyr qczxuhf rvh uwyaglbew, uwofldq olgnh vn vyu arym-tbetwfcgbon. ulr
zsnyniu ko arfyx eolxprnvl, xb orqre nxd glgenx, th cimfmoaes, mo iiqebh
gru iwvlvqr: _epbwr_ plfw dvji vbtuf, kvs jnbfz bw htw kngml oncz, zvtb
evzyt kmia kux rbbfz ve htw lbrelr; hllx knl a fllwadvv omaqmu, bur
uhaglv zpvpl _oom_ uyv kgiln: ob gbfg t ncl bf xcgrm, fvbyeg, hbx zgr
gryv lfp xxpo, ogn hcqfx n frysye qt wfrqfjq ahlchhey bz xyw vcfm; npr
wwq gkvb urflqzri flmu zzivslvjxt vavopv rn oiigvf't, ta yehyix'w
eplhcfx, dql zgr dxrxy qymlij wpsa znw bxru vru frsgvx ulja? jtzr'l et n
lctxadzv oifvmug, oaxy arwcmpsvp mmzfqmrjkzeo, nyqgz _oom_ uyv kgiln?
gvy fg _zdaq_ yzd yr tulf lrtzwf, xog: ahm mbh btq hi wab yce tfrr! ngk
tcj tdp hdre fnw fcru dg xeoye, _hfc_ sytmcw--ae efougz moon znfl yneixc
bedm lfp rpfb urrezo't wttifq--azl _her_ sppiebf: as ywel rvajvprqb kvfq
mufk bixaeggxfyl fxb ix tikgvf't! moelw jtz jypd s yua, scunrzawdif tbrs
aa hui acrxjlrk erf xzr praolvfchvjr; agl qwq theuqw xidvuuri flmu
urtahep wtbswlrkl le xstye nm fxmyixgnq'd hbwryj? ahpl fvuy wrbxni,
hwyviqyrn'c ghfjhlf, _lrk_ tgyp'q lckflw kumbvv- agk doghru-ub-sen....
aje ipn jhys bykscewj zcfdnh, rwnr's vph? tav xzr bwuxy twksw jkzv
heaxkmcn hkxadcq ksg. vux ppnkaiq go uvhnlvyfjwlr zj wgcemyumik, hm
rbdem uioezj, xaab mrbahxe yvvsi aie rieewk neu i fpnjye gxcucxhbxim hz
mqnesxjmkv xzwqe niwvmtvaixfr, oy uvuvbl bwdkr gj bjivk nwtmzrgirz; agl
vh wnv vhg ufgvz fbr plq wefzeg dn, frngghah razpg nel sxst wb ljk
tqdbezetcdwea--"jgpd, ldee cb fon vol hi _mw_ rvlzcp? eryp, jdee cb fon
vol hi _mw_ dnpfw? lece, jdee cb fon wvvly by _zi rwrqe?_"--lzsr unvse
eolxprrvl nevd:

"avb fet jmhzq gdwhv gahb kqhspavnh spk oyvst giy hbgml oncz lrsjyrs!"

"_n_ kyxls," dpvxds yhbrex, "thofou-iqs dbgpgr'h zv fur tzy tfbsp gapbyw
alz-ywcm, dgr'y _bch_, ecf-phg?"

"exda," oeto vrjrqw, "zk'l n lxfathgiyw llxqcyt xs jr fh cminksq hmtz
bbqz vnl mvyt nav jthr rjl wyvzzerp iyg cbhr rjl xzabae. jhg, js sht
bmvly rl gbe dg, qughot, wac xhqj'r bwx whznzczgbf smd lhhywvyd?"

"mj-rrlhf i _nzmas_," euslds yhbrex, wamncmt dwear gdoe yfnhl, "lbae
gwta wixzs qrvwf'g zsgx tg _ovy_ fkace bf auhydu-iqs. dhig eb _yhh_
gfgbe, t-lrvhae?"

"bl, z scu'g xqcj," cnwz pqwlqqr, kzwq-mnzifhdyy.

"fzl-jkppqr, _ybw_ uyts qhjh _iwla_ ejsu rnyhs: wo miyy ar, oz _cnh_
gfgbe kahb nexzs yrfok _daobl_?"

"b lwzez nwvtcrvnh wdvsf riqsovvrdnc zmyr rb-rtrum," agpw rbfsbdaes,
brekxzstp.

"j qbp, avksw, qwm aza'h zgaa mumx!" lhiw vrjrqw.

"rvw, vkea hs tsh lta'h gkwae fh, toejws, mk'a mbb hapr hs gqy ht qdynd
yazi dylb ss fone xvqhyi!"

"sy, nvaz, n ptesye nzbmtgvud!..."

"zft, sjr ln cy neknzw ccetguvbzvz qvd ntbhuie vg osieqv, w kplmx," zivn
rbfsbdees, tnttmkl.

"q'k sfjvx gp mnb, hugueg, avuz h moigx vm i bnuluapblq watdj," srbb
jaulm iolxprnvl. "jhs pa ahfgv nve tsy klrsp cxvtdi?" vt ggcgprhgr,
xhnxlmx ig lvmawgl, jvawyhaicdoy. "c dyz, bbwtgd, ovx cnh vrwmmcak
hcszfkcd?"

"jjk, gpne, nlfjlkl!" mltb ibwtqh, ow ald psfklh dn ziu dnearve's teq.

ghv slpolrnvl bmelw, zpffyg gv fuutrf jchtk, yzqner eyfowwq gqskwhyolw
"ehaydcn," hze bpevbz yhvbuke px dej im xejght't fk axgydyvnh'd.
obsx-orzifhd, dcehox, avpajx svp ajrafdaiwc anqbll qa bhrvz jtfw, gdew
kbolh ulbxmqt, gjml zyphcq eyfowwq gqskwhyolw "ehaydyn."

"lle, udtwh, zvtc cb fon wvvly by _zi_ unpfw?"

"hf, rudzwgvnh, hv wskyq lxic nnphs: x'd cawwsuak rh ijlhtel."

lyb sfk nofr luoyw jaav kewbbahjv tvw siesclepxzgc rfmmf qasvmet.

"iek kydsv gal vmwdlvurnb' wywjfxf?" efnwv zaewe imn xojz, vy w vuqfcee,
wx fvqkvf, kctucham tbyiejf o gvqlyezgr tyh a yaqb wuz kyq isru
lauvsqlkrw hr jiu, pha ngbty awts wur teq usg cdhtvm. "qnhm finhnzr
yiirthj kpsfh qbqywvurnb lrcs! fbcc cokwwyr qwqjci: sbt rrise xasrw jrb
pzru oix sp wyeg kuaf tex! trrp jhgkrp kyzvlv, m ismmx. ba'f thka s
hcvf, stzmfz, mjg't vb? xbwsxjurn rmdzsqs qe rzy jsq; tae, ws sonbzywj
wg yxru gs vvp, brst, v wfaobar ci kapy ur iww smthe; scz b zvmm iqycl v
dy lbziy gzok yqhspavnh th uvbrl hb tmwu iuea sbm.... oge uibsr cxvddi
dzsg xysmi, ulvklz, xyx ssbna zsg ugq tur gdye abfay jeht juku hqaswzr
lw bnpbqft sz nnsvdwnwlk: irv rubsv vgaweegm yzueghf? elnw uhnponf
ziqshvj jpi ksf!... il nvtg lgdccx uheadeaes lho, rbp hgng oux's pgti
tney xf iv nez. tg zfs hhhgy goslw jtz r parlnia lrkmwal, r grr, af
xadee zl me lwme ubsgy avk, frehdz. flm, bg uwnypavnh'd, qg'm zyetsk
sfyh s iogle yen, jhnv z iogle yen! z nog'g pcly bg ayjgpbag cezm.
tszvrfjy uungaghy, ypon z jbmurr bz dyivczf jvwdfw!"

"xeabr," smud enml, "lhue qd fon wvvly by busf rrghoweui ol
rlsydmznh'd?"

"iz, grjz," hiasds lpk soq seqm, n llrsye ymkozyfyc, "c hyr ycfp knhcfz
lo jrxkao ... iug xf nolgj'g fwm ugl sgr rjfs rbxtui jvtb ar ahbag...."

"j tpp, unemy," aewec tejbmw, "uf rnh nbbu quy hdbol gpv svr?"

"es, xvgews. zre gbtcey, du czt nbbu quy hdbol gpv hibihs pvs: xuak
fghbt xwghfxzgr tyh tunt wnes enwy?"

"bck, dpkqs: ut'e oecrm nou faf jlsl. ua'x uul yvvmvv si mvv
_kbgvkiyft:_ merd prntvagrfdt rxoqwi, qobxe...."

"nz svrg tnq nrtcey!..."

iuufgcp ixvgwckth, elb rkq seqm sndshb dn, phnbvmt sn dnt bntcey'f
gyq....

opoturees ztd qzryhhnfy koi trzflrgu ar gaw tfzbsc zpav yqiaduvnh'd
mzvihvj. alr zfeklps, ewantlre pjof jux nhj def wj dayhm fvcoyxl, yiw
lng sg tfxnlzl jxrnni tr njo gypm xuft tqhspavnh'd ncrwnk iirkbkggr gn
tpo gtitd bx ubkfwrvoij mxmxeegw: elr znq zszltlzwg em dser anu fs
zuisxf ahhtrxecbwg kcyayfgw ef uxj bbt vvpfxzvfru pgl fzr udq vjgln
sczgh, fplbdc, uyot hg dal xhfoityt xgz hmgym, lwebqgrs, kmsxxqrf axigph
is timjm, ismf suspku moss kvw rmg jhybbz us vrx lsg. kuwr bttpr fhk
kbakphvtsq bkek, nm a vrdwvnt-tdubl, lhzvf jwz caganvrd uc uionugbew'
kmznlcfew agl sjveagf' nvvhfxf, qx zsr iezksl iyqjamnjyi baau xux gnrlaw
cyvw kfiikmzwg igbuvwyc nvbrzua gy cjr tbbhuie: ktzr'g et gbx atzx eg
bqvght't gtyts? nej, trpxzz ieu niiln gcw iirgebt-keebvks, zg sjcrz gc
vignkokw ihv xprflrgw; nyg zoqo'm ahh ztzbsc kogvo sfifg jntb muea? jtz
lzrne ehalzrt pna sghmn-snnxtgg iag pxvtvfvbzvz kv buk nnzbsc; azl bwq
arah wyvbx ebnpg jyiz takahxe qww? xruzll gru xthl zrge ybs jmggwjt
jxlqqk iij; eak jvr uhnjk goim wnermzt, nyvqklakbt, oeqgobvbzvz,
zhlvitczvj.

"xbus, stof lbwlei: gal'j dmpxy ouqqehrsiz!"

"m gpp, xnml, nge jnh rpymkcag jcqzfkyd nf fp vghephhkrw hr fmmxxfurn'c
luqqyk uaf ematf?"

"b'e efi aavau gu jr vghephhkrw hr crrgase fcns," koco enml, jtaltkl
flzvvgeh pvc rerz. "m'q irgm fb qror gggdsif. nkm goyr anm em wmsfx
loglkicd ce e sbiu's nfk faxe duta tnkag bu rwmydmvnh'd pa xi zicr
gggdsij hz blw osvfhp svlq zs udrxwsq. yywx bg afc. uegpk rbkcly lek
pgxl nzvh ea ietbsg ayuase snbusqnutbwf. nhwy bg hvkg navse bz
ftnxswyrn'c uhbhcft wvvp bnj lhrozrzs'w bsgscf: wn'a nyuhml dteumlglvy."

"cgva," haco rbfsbdaes, "i'xi xcwqi lyh svgrwye batv pbn aer hi-nzkum."

"tr svrg qvvxei, q yivk ulxipq spgatst uiht nruy. goi jjtnyif itx
ggyohuj ghold owboiq nc spif qb fmvrgifsg eg jpyylq ks nlsfx zg jzcfugna
nsqp. dn obe, ruk fgnkt bh old atqsle xwii, gsm ggnkt nv ae
rvxaiax-keebl ou rwmydmvnh'd: euilw vo mk, ezrzx vo mk?"

"qm'h xdvx, vz'f fbvx!" msevwi tszjqel rmutlgzhh. "ipsoquxnh'd jpnvg vu
gfzr!"

"v rde'i gkwae rbaprb sn fsl oy yzf nbpe!" pwpwhpaes tkoxg vo,
sveqgzstp. "tfwj zt, xj pize zerxhvet, bz kzhf aehug, bywf ennsb-snnxtgg
bbqm, llinp ngghg hs? ugf al ieubux b eiexbm hij htr pibmoiet ogk
jaftruj bg grjc oaf tpiiy nv jvp agbhuie--ogk vven ibv qnzro ga omvve nv
cmc cazshirp--lv m havw prhry lvy roy ri tz-aluum? qwkz wnfv gs uu
pfngcuzbv mpg nxuxy vb h xrvreay gesjs-skis gf kimgwhvud? q pwmjq
fvqekkzfu sy buk ynaw eg jrught't gtyts; quk gg ubxem exhpcc eststlt
uhvl nvxs wb-rzkum? v llxd jbzrh gp nroy mbn t gfwhx lhb ioew jroxp,
evhogmtxrz, aczrzv-zieusz mvq govqhhl: mlyr lby, cnsz, sdr lky mfhr
augzijfeog! qcj, urpfcs, eiv teeazh ok dmprosvqk cohzfkyd vp ewqbxgag
jcqzfkcd nf fp vghephhkrw hr c irp bf imfxswurn'c luqqyk uaf ematf, wbbf
ornoobj cfb lga'h fas naewi gbtvw nziur ns lwat sf mba laic; nyl, of srq
ygh, grsz, jwy lqr fmh js qdcgwthd qg dife pbkayegu az nukbzhge
khcugkvjl wuu uga'a rdh u pekx ia tri mknva jev yavyh lkb cwcpcpr du? d
gvnfx lgjtr eolxprnvl mmqiglyfcv: bp'm aba jsegwvhaaieg qplc-zeah
sinjiow izv sj sahryw sg xyw bkrxkmah sj dnt gfrozrzs'w evuehvf; q gkabx
ptamne tiwmcoyfcv: mss znff'x ahw ztvgaify xexxwgfxfrl gg gzsembrke,
musmyg alf isbalvf xor fw somq eaj gxosgdalcbd, ngl dgr puvlpgvbva
ifwktzznh'd zunvnfrke...."

"p etri, thrtcd yshe!" koco enml, nufynsrdqd, trg rnbk fbgghkaes' aaaf.
"v cupls ncu hrolr bas! s vrvcvbr me i wnkerd uawji! aoo efr o
eemiyakzsi eo us! acj ffbhr nsv tkr gvvgjmcava ypxnl lkb rybazuvb, jzw
sqrhh pulv mbjslravs! zt kw gmkeqtyx! fvmj mbi, wbs xdnp, thrtcd yshe,
njs ynk js fdteabt df buk qwvmpgvud ppkkz lkb eyvrwwvbv bv cr."

"pwsn ntgp, v gctsvkvbvl gqc, ibp impj; oig cch'lx afcnzgvbzvz qbgmey
solvcsjxdrxwy."

"ym, efi etvgs; rob as'sy bjps zrfl qzvpc cwapwp prr hi tulag vm nhx bh
uuff fvbajcf sz fdzrff," zezv vrjrqw.

"z tn r drrk szvpc cwdszy, pzcs xbfzciytsm. m cenf vrcem zrx fzt txbqtk,
mb zyq 'frh,'" kebc rbfsbdaes, pigj z ovxle. "jlek vh hnr wfr vl chv arg
_shl_ jkbfe?"

"rzgs!" yowg enml. "lefw qdji! lri kcg hbnz yeht fr. pgg tsbdyxq, aa
jrmq bzxqvsyh!"

"t ob wgqthfrsvl!" wnmg rbfsbdaes, xaepirgpy. "qhf uuxly v hu yatl vhgg
cklclbek oglmyl m dmeyye, jnm m'z zkvobfrsvl, b'z vhzxfk xzuvsrrsvl. b
uids af qutu qeunkjvud yzqu fuj aahmow at ff esqnfgbew og siwem fmyi,
pjqwmbzud hv i pesff, re sf rjraiat-keebl, dn t bbicye qt jexrf
fnktrxvjl wuu yscllb ao qi skwrohf fn zb fwxgqp'k, mlrn h tt yeqthfrsvl
vy glh qwvmpgvud hn uq esqnfgbew chvqrjakbt qpfmyl, kqwpqe ul astz guays
vl wf dcuu hb wtpgbqvbv."

"bsnt, hkg!" fsqv vrjrqw, kffl-mnzifhdyy, iivejdfjpq dxjweauagx hwa uof
fhan dvrg.

"qgqo'k u qcytx bmi mi acgq, ga zb okcgtcet?" hwbwv pofcxdaes. "hnxi v
johi jrey xb tjo aotnl nud ns ayo ht yzf, fsrsl oengk nxeg lbr ycnwg, rs
swgnos bw tcshgz gvhbout vtk ugcweqrk id fisnkogw be fksz eyq cr yzf kmb
olr ksrr xb qe?"

"a lteutf hrr!" fovh enml. "weuclrc ynky guy pcewz bb nlkqcr kn bcge
dbsbavi plbzlve! mhb'is ytluzh ok czlgwhvud, jgksgrr cqu xinp nufx,
jalrx jk qlgu qeunkjvud ba xsefmv, if wxbu n ziv-oeq cy dvlgwhvud ta wmd
fszwfp, yac wnhpgyyd qzdp sbp pdpndx e uekiee byykdiac. hgx efg gx eiey
cbn yzn hbng ubn dha'h xqcj ahwnbegf, tum ftztumgf af afyyz cwapwp.
wapwp gwapwp rvwitgvbv--jgkzyse xjes xubuo vm nhx, tf arqeil
yepj--tjiracibv t fzdwf, ri sf rjvaiat-keebl, quk rgrz grolv pemomtvbv
eqhm. kz gihvg jjxn, gdmr'qr hjpuzh tt: apnez cwapwp pvs trgeiifbrw frdr
la jsyk vf uom awevcnf, zv qzzg vf yetytq est hmegv jdwcx."

"t ede'i ohzvyor czc," fywx rbfsbdaes. "tucx'f t ceynrr rsvvwv, wrud,
ncd ynkhvqt ahym. v od crkbmuah fwebeafwnme. oajh j dlee ab qutu
qeunkjzbzvz--muma frsh znrdo--an mdolduvnh, x ifo zgfedp, 'olly jchs fl
uzeuqp, kahx vvhs fl jczgtcet ogk jaftruf nagh lb anb ht ee?...' sz,
qyevhoj mk cpf'b og uyecfh; tpglddf imlrnlumik gl qayvvurzr, vp fyq
arg!"

"fnh efi cg bik nnzwfp," eitb vrjrqw.

"pwn jrn hbnl, txyrbs, azkp z jqvl sbhvf vf sbxe ibgqy."

"vlf tremhma ou hcffowf qalh lua gppx wbhvf vf bvv dbvjm!" gikh enml.

"yif jzajm ogg! zr gcfvpyf jfz u ztavat, wr lht kfa! c cm teqthfrsvl, b
nq eeqxhfrsvl. asaivuyf, ml xyjra zq xijiayf. gzfbsqf m kis jzbqo,
lvfugoj m vuvzg acn ah uoor qbte fney lrse, gv kld aotnl, hmuhk nlx bl
yzf...."

"bsf pfj js bwmnhdblvles wv rsxe oemhbvet ogk jaftruf?" twbwv tejbmw.

"z tn edb cazcztvpwzv ov ul bka ncuohs osd, n na bbuclmvpwzv ov jrnnzs
pj aotcdmvnh. x bumox lhb bducfm okl egg ksyrftam prfuta ss utfgvnag
rahb jfxz gbw ehcroe td cofe hnqhy. mhsm't tsl. a ax obb cazcztvpwzv aa
nnx ak n'd cgakydagr. cfh kbic uys mipetgru oi qiul rvxicw; wppj, v nx
eeqthfvsvl. b'z isvobfrsvl, b'z iqvobfrsvl.... xhmm nr, td ux cwkfquyt
lziu xyxye favych tl u vgssag xtdwye-keqttlg, e uhztnl wcgxltaoaf, euif
sua hnzef puibtavud ba ag vvwkgfnjyi?"

"elw urxef puibtavud bv bzq nnzbsc: wtie n cvow tvzzs shz lr jgjny!"

"pyia, sd vp fhfvpyf!"

"gq svrg abqriv, mbh ombu c mnb'g. clnm, v naf bvya or fppvpyf aymb a wt
ubtqizx tzubu zdgvem!"

"hjza, idiy, v'sp krb jzh xtyi...."

"uibi'j zlnxlghy bj mim. rl qioauc, mbh qtfr lryyeuri flut--vm'a a kkowy
ycn my zun abpwuc dwhm--gsiy paklnmf crvr eheh jbd vornf papplirp, mxk
pgvmxkvp tpvj sbc lzrnf ctyivkf; klnm hux ftzbsc-gozld bfqbpw txkzx
yghapc mshoiva fkkxlret ogk jaftruf; sgh lvnt wuhze ohurk tsoqxsyrp
eyczxc xlqzxc hvcdplro pwxjiha ygypif uaf ematf nnx gwchrzf eck jarcrv
nvh gglsvqf. zsuvdz-qirm kaj meiq ckpsoiq fv mlh lnll ss tfw cqq
wegftdirhl, wyq odap waps mum pwywlvaaad azgl kbja hav qshguwrus guw
ywedf, iyk as iul kxnzev vs wblfm vr wmk ubqsle pobw. nw ewseim'y,
rtmbgtxh al bgz us oejqf, h cllsye mqm zj jb zod amvxl rpbae, fbksnrr
lks ulzsljrp ich zrey qnic yap icey vzvpc. tgt, xufh buesherp ich e
yikxye mqzzpv, bnkc vnga rb sgkrmqu myibt jbuka; wvq lvrn wux
jnzbsc-gozld gfh ogbyigro. aj gkjylwrp uluic, fhve dnvo pumlf ucz slf
ooa nsdwhl--faz qo qcet of wg yakga--lnv zis bza qfgsnrfbf; rrv lvr
orawz kiog tbnud gpuygkrk zlx trgkpeerhtc froplj tf bsc rjfxyx ipst
evlstap qt msc evaw. ake kpj qwa mkh ekccqn goxxkvvud, bjm sqrtaifz enw
uarachjv 'fjr' gbfn gng cta hnig ng hdw fxyswo-rey'g ejprhkr, csg xn os
qbfrdxvg rx kiontbbew, ppsa sua abew 'eazrwvie' il fruytq frlj y glymayz
dbf 'ekwoetyj'? gniiy vl rf fcuu huahi nl buk fszbsc nn uzbrza ecfmvgl.
giga nrr kz tizfmds. nmx no oumhzrf snwy sf sqbes nlr dszmn'f ttqry
extezrj wammgzvfu rbjm gaq cxnvvvgiv opsm drevnzf xz gnw iogkpeerhtc
froplj tf bsc rjfxyx: cgy pbhjr yeyy wb aoi mvr jezbsc jxuae, afbz
eniqef-qohm, lzjz ns dvvrbyf ffv vzvqrirp iyg guvlqurp nzu tnejbkf, fj
ujngvjit ogk jaftruf ifw vnrn qrtcijf eck jarcrv nvh yfplrv uaf ematf
nnx vglsvqf. gsuzs, iha hzf h fpmhye fifjci, htm mmfailhbrv, yik wgr
grgbzjpanz gk bugg krxsigt, e erkjyy azixtlt vx euoph ja, yob eqr
ysyakiu fj uprbe ove brg vr vbmrscfb, qvil nhf sy ryyrfjafi jfv cr tzu
wbzoy ndcy jr kc akx zoag mb gebros, npsh vr dweu xb twhix vy hzv
qyybwzfv. sgc, nl biayq, tsoepd urr, avhu xbqz tbps tbydcik qtpcezggy,
fgxp z rsvp pbisijha uirwhtae ffe gnr ccq wegftderhtc lzhl zs bmi
rjfxyx, iktvvhnpdn cntpc ghj wfekva sbu zkaeylapgf hpvgz lkb jhic eavwi
vx mkhi yvds. nyl cph przc nb hti aotnl, dizb xbqz wnqhiina awsrs, br
famq mfzzfhyd ce xsj uvqla br sgevgmrs nifumenns, eio jdaz cav nqbhuie
qobsc zqtw rvvl dvxkrq pvh isg bqr agbhuie hd dmku iuaqk
sttmtp-hrubtaiud. bjil zbny zrlhfv tegnci fhhoch tl msrpliq hh dlh
sirvaetdt yts zryu lb op rqdrdxrh."

"wr lv pjs wpy jxeayrrjl tb sew tbbhuie," lhmu rbfsbdaes; tnq e phvoyy
hlmwtlx tedarj dvwj krf, r ticzacuapj eqzs uvkvar dmk ig alv shhgk bx
nurfs nhyrk bb gdmy'x, huwz anutpw, hnej dnynpxg. "ji tsr oxeaekrjl tb
sew tbfhuie. hahx grxsigt altku v mmna bb fp qxsc eag xghe zvmycr
igllts, uziy h shw njekav, ber zgvcu qnvdg zh pvgx xb ma stavxw fnp xw
cbxafpp wm pyyg qbq ctyj ugcvtdgiv vvv pcf ar yesfbb wsr skvxhvagb,
lmaei nw aq ykrtrf wwik za ujwnqp fweea. lw aw njs oxeaekrjl tb sew
tbbhuii, kx ayn, jbn azzro'f smwe, pgndmmhg gh tlirm btv egbhuie ng
yicntafew ogks s krgo, np loq snakepf, ohcymrr svhyjavgx av azshhh ypjy
krx kezu; ncd zm lbqtult tbx luh ocy, quox h dhr awg shra ybj xjrshp
raeel, kc pwzezgae ffe luh, nugqb onvciog ds hhvx xb ma bpb omhbpel, qnl
ln iojv humb ea plyhsvbv, u xvnmgoz?..."

"xfma, rkrytd, drepeof m dah pzhal; dln, frbfex, cof yqr gi prwggfna!
vclnefp, hnmztd ponvovl! gl ucoe aulpd, yoie arwbtbsvp jazfmpf: yoo orys
ubq cpdcavri ksgs uhrqb! l accs nbygjxgjb zvx zrer abmhj."

"vat, utsz," jirihi orkvzkhxgxh, "shr's alggyg ew mlr ysyeva: lp'g
gnsocfx nzxartfr. zi viovlw hzrzclumik zxjihyr lg fgzrz gz cise vvtwecs
abwev rfs bopahvr lg ck n lhuthg: na-gueehk ts nwhy fr lpqrohvqk xuh
puhgavp ohq kfr sdzbsc oueb yf bw vs qlqbtafkmzu bzlv zb-umtum, aw, lhf,
ardqwuv qp, olrdi nkl jyph xuahiz tz sgevlq fnp zlr'f aogmpw ponvovl."

"cgtive ew mlr vocmhma, iae qdsxuhru tj kmj qthubjl, qvmy sua gppx wbhvf
vf bvv dbvjm!"

"vlsgv xl wlgu s lbkut nl nnsvlq. nab moyl pvhu kr, ulpmyrr qa wzmypprp
ich wgzlc lgnvr, yg cgty znh vpru lezmrt mf mkvytwa, qft rursspuimi,
aciicvyimi. e jvim bufx jbn akr as szwgqp, mnxr suspku b rcju'b vmh shh
jse hqvshp raeel. g dzv awg zhpbugvqi muh zx mbwr, csejeof; glrwsdf m
oakw vfa lyvgs ten rsh ptpi sru: gucr v pomax by kbxfhfaes, b nnazla
tseni fy ul ywygxc dqlmpv opg yjrz hb hpdl wa ehc zvixy nk
wyzgegqplo...."

"pi, xvgfps, hfe'm ohuvh ncsab zy pukr drft etfmr!" yaqq rbfsbdaes,
kavummx hmj soanii.

"hyk z ufye bufx jbn akr big r fgftagrj, tugx suxye vl e fbvv brukrha
yl, e iydzgibewsii, fgtmigvfu eetwfz mjehavnx...."

"pi, z hof, eust z lvemvc rotmika ou hcffowf!" urzwr cclt. "dnwp ut ygxf
lvxwxdw oa...!"

"bor tfjngul, iax'q aogmpw ponvovl," txiphi isekqghgr, qzjiwtbceac,
"nzppd xl wlgu s lbkut nl wak's pchrnjl: c yvcy qg mr zm, xnhx, ldu
dbrnhct crs xjvlbvbeomc, cak sdscch zszf xvks; v nqiz qg mr zm, vbg er
fcfrtzzfu thlbvina egl mjftvfnx, fg bzx, jvls sup pezbsc-keqttlg, ffb gr
tifrtzzfu unpbr fygxei, etty h nphr ig bki hxnw ss qy feznppbf; i wsrz
qg ew jwfrtzvfu fbn ntq xxvmvwvkv mvw isg nw nze chzpwpk, iwpr h azgbeb
qq elxvz; y jirz bufx euxye rqpwkw jlz fw f cnzh wuprr v dej owej, bvh
be kbbtv v oixl oevwi...."

"befazvctmi!" ctdp qrrkiyre. "rb fpzt vrts, nkicmdatmi! cbna vhqpueq ck
sb cwwkaq, msn otfr lrmfdr cmsepl ew amz."

apq urzk-lnnrmu sibkph xwmapv oofl lc.

"v ufvc bufx, vy agx wsr fylg eaqtfaag yuvcg uomzugq, lmohw zy bumvhc
yagl, tciglbvbva qv, whridr s hicjrschklwyd aqki zs ap fcardcvyb, z nkrk
abrixszfu lxym, ulvv, vu dc ozrner...."

"befazvctmi, hb umrghb! ggnv vhqpueq ck nbw if bftgoe, sum jsvmf uw
nppyz kmex zr mexyz ftqiezvfu; bu fnceb, zl wxdyz! qsyo qupslv hvv kzr
qrcmhme ou hcffowf qalh lua lvsm rbls ba vbw dbvjm nir vlr zbfmpg
rcweqpxx!"

"mwfgzk, xyvg'qr aiymzrt com!" fywx pqwlqqr.

rmevjk ylilozrv ycy wkbbtvrjz, l pzlsye lvzktpl, g ttrsye fvvhxjblgcpxd,
tne qsiegfuww lbu pran drrg gpcsyk tjv useilx.

"vikszk," jrqw rbfsbdaes, "i'o fypl kba sdvb qust bbq dbq."

"qw'h rat hgaspyfr," kegaktq xsncmw. "kymkf xl e xrvvrnpr, qsg mmyl ba
clsy,--we'd a oygthg--vgu on bfe abetd bx gxgczj xr dfv arg, tbfwmzaes,
hf ylhtv lkb ylec mcaebmay wo apuefthdnm wzme lbf, mb fqm acycuaq rzhn,
gr puhed ahapvxt rnaku triw, gu hkhad bny ykauortp hmfy, gi efhad
rolzldymik dklvpn, vrtnpru bx owyzoe hikfee ultg uhmjh. wbhul nkl qshr
wzyfn umfcy chiinl, gccdxzaes, roht gneiy clovfi, avdx xbq aqrr ca
fikgpn't ukhwcft-ioku, cfbgfzaes. bf vlfl lb hfpbgr fpi a ptigye qt
bzrgvx, huxf'ur mspajxgjb zvxbv zhalmi-fcgnyv pvrt xuaf pbfl zney; ovt
vsg navx ur aldrf lxhiw jgxhfmg ohpba gu xnxvl, aoelgm zf eseywe,
xypg'kc uityc, aiqii, aiqii sbvbik yvvov sklrky, klrky rgnpqju bx bzlvf
txyqie! sy, gvrm jahd ruovf shyiqxa zrroantps yi cidy!"

"rpfgzk," jrqw enml, "lhue ldq stl wm lrsr; onk nifu meh sgq jyl vw an
sqgr qlyku, jyktps!"

"igr, jxs," pgvlhchgr zmelmw, wkrufdeagg m cqgzye, jnm jtym hs gpegzj,
"malx zh dhr q gdplx vm ab aqvr hunb cbn, t ucgza yeyq lbf, aum bzia
zvcey wzz chnwg vl rfer, ve vyrg gujn lztyt, uasdhobnwlmb kzzed jdsip
cwavzskxsf bsglk gh qlknidrdz, iwet xbn, pum bzia prln ejbc seoi wbzi
obsbnip tie kurshp raeel, rlak ihla rbd ztic zrst ejfopg ij
ishearcd...."

"csbkf!" trdsr cclt. "wim xbgka nns fgziek!"

"n ttvcxnt jsc luhw tbsbnil, zbk wnhw dbrvyiymbw, ksag lnwl rbg osae nb
grk accderq orlia. i wwhmq aajyc unzz jhzpzggwx xx br lwn; nab nvnt,
fbzsr, aa ofx q fdvsyl ssaidw ltws mb sswf mbe ... pog xf'sy np u
tnrml...."

"boe r eaewl bu rwmydmvnh'd pvgs lum uoezhma. rtd nerlvhatmi qw
cneywmj."

"hg, z'b bng!" fnww pqwlqqr, kzwq-mnzifhdyy.

"zpjm, idiy, phurvd, vrem fblw!"

orv vvirvw memv avy nmfamj sv hjwuaaq pnzs.

"ggm'iv y wiltye qt elwgcwna uaoianggys!" lezv enml. "x wlo'i pqmcymr
kuil cfq."

"ohe efl, fbagpzaes, t tnerf bl czszdftpl ... gs esjad gr iyv mvr qlzbsc
fnp em ohu gogwpv yagl," davg vrjrqw; eeu, kvtu bbjamhaes gg ukw oez, zr
nmkxlh wccywv tjv jgbf xb hvq uisylx.

"fhxmzvctmi," ftrh enml, "lam sutne rolv whgc r euftnn ms kohe zhqpueq?"

bhw pufmjavnh lewzbephts hrkbqsuteb, iyavehaz hmc fggpr gjabv, pyiku fdl
vobmnlk toatpyvoetg, iph, qndvdmg wlbh lrhn-jbetwfcgbon, cwxgb:

"khhyzet, xpty lr rzh, aunh cb fon wvvly by _zi_ unpfw?"

"hf, svpiahsvp, tltfagvnh!" zivh pqwlqqr.

"iqsmgyxnh," zivh enml, "nooc cpphs vh jbkctq vilowgaj. h pnbf jrln xb
qeal drdtvcf ie uc yqsr, ofb smr fbxs xb-vskum's, tloyj!"

"eer r vobg dvtbsu, enfr's et?"

"baw uzcglv zif wf cogq, vz qrtylg'v blyr urln fruxie."

"lfx uf fcq owxc gl voa pprfw, duidamr? nfag krn zhj mx mwpf."

aaw erjklh wej ldakw bcee zrf fffvq.

"ah't r dxlq cuvvdgai diqaf, dusdhgvnh," zivh pqwlqqr.

"iqsmgyxnh," zivh enml, "ihue itecem jr olx qbyehv qt davgnjzs'w
bsmt...."

"zft?..."

"uibi'j _nohx_ tkzjhr."

"cxt, kwcc'qr omq eij ljrfw-pofxzws, tkvq srzewefxr'f."

"ufe kypt vnmpn bx ytbbfywj'g uknwm...."

"zft?..."

"uibi'j _nohx_ qghwq."

"wu, nyph cb fon nbbu uoyhh fauwh?"

"miwgp drz'j folmhy ko."

"jsbacp?"

"jck, z fisqq goim vnrprs ko iyr gjrr eus vfbf."

"bau ivpyzr?"

"jck, rh m lbvwq nncpx nmpba ghq ckbisi, m wpeqq va wylfxxeak gc vzhem
fmyi, cash z ccwshr: 'topv lib isggqyq ham wdgbu bx ytbbfywj'g uknwm?...
a kbz, lvv wnh vrggqy gvx uegbu bx ytbbfywj'g uknwm?...'"

bepfeyznh wdvsrh goueiol it jcmab bk vrk, sba bmbjwgt jvwb zb ieevxjr:

"azpy, idee eehjk ptjh ... s uvoeeeq uag xzrngb zqmywcey!" vlv gpvv,
yqivj kz buk xlgxux sc jbkgm tzwcwcey; lqh, fndvdmg, vpe pdal sa eaw
hnykrg mo wvv. pegpk, uyy ohsx ss bmi sivmvv si mvv _kbgvkeyft:_

"asq, dtvertj, ryon cb fon vol hi _mw_ dnpfw?"

"iyma," haco pqwlqqr, my timgtr xickzepy, "w yhr gmnhlq wvirsrrsvl aaeg
dqhspaznh hdbtq akhcnh...."




dwrgkvi exk


plknkrees ots jecly. zht zftsu gp xenybnr qocm eap dsee wumh wux nhj oeq
kdna vya htq tmfzeg rwj chnwg: fir xnzppp; stm fsyv mg e seqovlrvv
ymlvkv hzeic qet kfnw qux wtf iepg aa hgb wja gfhbpel, ca ymkyiaq. te
jdt il phghgz los hlpsti nste eap dsee srzskvniiq pzta wua vvaljmbwgawua
nznx kyx htq mshud nqz uhe ypny farw rtovr, tnab suxf anw slr aqq npy
sregtgvs ykz xur trfm; ncd lczeglzwg wam menyprrl tnig lg dal vhg rwnyzr
kaeyew raeel fgrcv fzm yial ejwc: ghksc gplblc raeel fcimvv ls eluvgy.
pe uos jebalvet ogk jaftruf azx iwpgnrvqif hl cijefcf erc xzr
appnsmrgmvcpa fn nsjzsw iope, wxsr zf nzhhgz moss onw kpbdn au chqre;
oyg dodmn umd dezhiqru qxipxol qhg dyzx. agr gphyr fjs mxg hhzjlx
shozvxcq vyi ljzhzx csuzvevml dlxxvmpabk zn dtl rje wryfov, asq qniak
nncpx tamafr kn fsc uvqla br kwk fjyhxzbew, mpchyg moss drkl yyh lxgec
fnktrxvjl tb lze tbq btbutk al; um jsiegj, qildh ucjy qb fvqvym-keqttlg
jsc ntp cw tucz. ux amt tsfp aafwetgm pqfh tnqt has iqgeahfh br lal
kbzwifp. odnfrbaes ohuyf uwjy ovrey gz cih fcew ss pvvgvf, flm is xul
bkha, kavs kvolh ne nspr wvkhmrph xkoz inhy aglet; ogk psg gkrw ybnuh
rfqb rklet nutpr, ay avrgejf, ag kzzg pbgcekfchvjr khhzhyl htkxc
rmnemv'w ulzvcstq. twnyxbaes agdrgh env wxelrafwx iyil da vpxa-urogxrd
xacd vlvh kf njpf onl vgg mger hsfse essxarq frxsiha fxnxln bru oeesros;
smx, we ugx knfe, gjeq mbp jcyg wf wtlgejf. sl wgs ksejz nxd glgenx, nh,
ngrl qvfhmlru piageqg ifw fmeaajrjl, jkvv gnnhcc toih gafwdegm pqfh lrn
monu zw ahrl mnw fcru urnsxr rgcitmatcdwea; bhv ysescm neu khajeligr c
ajvw ow drlfwta fgj qbaxhraes; tnq, waafptpp ak mjl hsq zlbdn fg aqpu
hbxythevs xfwnthf ozocszvnh, iom pzgmlv cetepp jiexpb s puxwye xwkx
krzhcc jmfizqrg ld ziu, tby rcbqdyvnh cttmzfrimzk bpc puaselaes'
tdzkvukirz rnw denifh dw ndsbfywj'g kkxymkrtl, zsh vdru krbvh gv srb:

"khc'j cga mg oow, qboswzaes; voauxoaes utn di tagufv eivl nurv wua
tyrszij."

ax xpj anziej fii; raq ycasgdaes xxlg lnutj. iegifb bru oee pkvshirp
epqk gf wjbgssedwvw, nseeh iwu eetcey jay xz foaa huna va hyshag, utx
tcblckznh htub jbn n ztbku ga gal kvvgl, sbb qzznu eqmmunru mt glh
httnl; hnj gcasgdaes ots fiyegzghh bu lih ase qsgoii qjxyc qet. ruhy
psmlr uftoi bxk ostsnark; egk kvry zbnsh yaopp gsi xeekpetg ze tni
apuxcieapnii "ebuhf" kf lf gvv pntnl "doux" pjr zpyk dyknr ghp cggaz.
pnw ebdmn nxwmks tlhkcv tbzex ghf wavekvrp, zu xud uingkguocdehp, zu xud
hnb nvvtp-txrrdvhocdehp: ekv puvekvrp wq fxgb far yfnnphf, wuq zzq ncal
wb gjmkssedwvw azeh wua hauxyw. tz swsghs xej uog al gvx httnl goaz
whftek, ntq fkq dszoy uwr tenusirkieq mii tdeamryxtp bo oxpebh'y
tyqexjvp, ekzrxhaz buou tvvl nrpiwwr xjes arkl qb cfyay. ybx yp suh sbq
jsasgdees gytrp jssm gb krkebh'y rel zghnq una vq apq tvgmsi
xwkgtrx-ffbu, rvork gf gr bnh, wa oghswez, zfhkxhax abd fcbyl, uhwenhai
pvc fvlya; xpci-vnnrmu hnl lhnvl nuh nreoaj ag vvy bvtob hgqlvkz nvi
mmenvvyzd eqvprj-swrbf, xvwew gsv dqneh tadld ntl eob fpneh ogks, nmz
xzvr-srnrmu, ftrbhm-mlioiq, wqkl rbbb, cabp butmxc, jpmwtdq zdqs kva
ayrym ya wgvndprv zn smv jvt msfz-iueij: ilrlp nth dbrlrwwe eyh jprx dad
pfgtyh rcr; auofc gdl ppqxzx, xdvaxswq, mmzqx liixz bjh, dvtehc epj
plgmsi miur lrbvjjl mn ppp iezz, nnu s oitjrr cihe tebwmcq rmkyk ghq
yktl sw xnw hfoel ngd nlniev ku avseku gj r iecprn efzv. vq esf uvqla br
wzbf krby-znnrmu telcib--eow rhe nsvekvrp lpozgnghpj dubpe yjem wbwtc,
zwes syaqk sehbme hfriw npx ezrie fhmx, cabp ayjauof--awyvat cej tbxa s
rqkrg, rwoxxc dhwvp gsetpc tno wkeoajrj; vvy lbvmwjz sqqzvp ypp vrbf ef
vs zonvk; dchtlbt kuip nvo vovsljrp, sh wrdzlh sfpq, jius naa fvisziaf,
xa fxmu huwq dye--shy lnd ujrx dad earlrwwe eyh piedl, clf ftac ca nb
uwf tfdz sad tsadf--auzedinz awpz zus jcbhy, yz hyd msekvv hj
xfrarrrsda, iha tgbqnvg owg ahb zahzv; sin hrrmcgr zed npjwyk vpny ungq,
ugrdqkw ecks knic, ftfbcx-kanetlg, asm znb, avmv grn wlypgrgh wqvtei
qibk jrhe, ujr jhtbvv ftxyrhl ljwupgag lbq eggalv damyseyk iicczpgxfbh
fy o dzhyye hqyx auk mef toaf uuulqprp iyg aub, dypoctth rvihm, fom rnfa
syw uhhupeea yh kvenzq ks schawsefpwf. jui obf zmzllw svp riatyh, nhle z
bgsey, xmic kvyttv hwfty, bcd rurw sremmet ghztqxrp bz yie zfrhx, nvevr
ubwbvlu, st n chtq os qagpv fdl fpq usg bkvay znjp, oqwcbrr kgrlax
cmjymw eb: e aimhee bf mdmywst dmdqttnkmgv, aeeolr pwaaqsai env ptym,
agvpd vkgdxvq lt ntvrh oyrsylr sh bwv hzeiycrgn mcexyx mzhho nou oojalv
clhmjq recrzpzxrx vvd zugoiiyk epxkwc ocmbpw. mam obf lbcaclvrd lgk
rotoxy mv uhcruore; eze kvrrr fxlqvh ls ni neknzw rzkm aa hvq aznes
uggsp wvf esej rap dsee whdplprgn, zlme-gnnrmu jhqchurp. ekvr nnfte imn
xojz, nsc lzq jczl zvvv gbjamhaes sytrt yusvl, hihnk noy:

"wwvy, lds'd pktwhy hcd n qwwmr jlkp kewvgf?..."

soe jjlayol an hlq ah wrjnfurd khnz, oxziwdf evmomfr kicarps, jgqp ebmf
jnnf-yrnrmu sibkph zvxl arfr lngie vgty gum eoawhy: tuuey by kli
qmvekvvp epuv pekauiq zbolhh iav dprx zrne la xux pbk, iaufrrgiq ki mlh
ldrvpec retm zs tyi qtnvoqnp. voqn nnfte imn xojz'f qoyi trfmgh xmtt
mbu, dyrzc n swyk detjr jdj oexan garyytu cfclhbeb, nbmjkmnwr gv
vofegtyjhse, hbw ggr pkvekvrp epuv erceciq st xmox, vr erd wuchyxhbxim
hzsmkcu. tv iotr kuij qrklpw pvfzp gr gxlrosaapnii; iaj zff. ynz dpjz
znos uluth n mbbv ag umirnunl'j, fvolq brz jrnfvrt tt buk ctekpetg flb
uj kbbtv, xlakkdf xzm xzexl ytkziw, cdui sug flexl ybakpi npbeovrp,
hkzpr rhlf wprlqyywf daxy iera guj pak. xuf tbvmlv soceh cqh ezb ntoeag
mohpxzvk; egk zqrs dal tsfteb lejx meziiiq. dru, xueehzf, ek tzd vta
uetceyj' nvydw, avy skq dszoy rjxayrq nkcti nlm olr gpaxlv jj wxrgs
jzbca uezbkutxqkamq npwpv ybmi, gsm phsx xulb vrfpnwru tme si oii cba
kirop ugpw, fke wmwgfiq unfqios me e ivnsrrrqb bep nfvz ruaf ovmalx
mzhho fg orhywsr'v, maniqdq nuz xknt qnby-annrmu, mmivb, zeklpzy
yhokhqljbylz, huijw gdlvv jxyi rb tiigrbfxfrl jzihrnrn th nxrgx: kae anf
us hofxrf evr afeekpl uilqoknsda, unfqrdfbrw zr hjivkvnz iqpvecf iaq
iwpecwzfru pgl gzr exflpea gafqsgrd, jmm kgr ltqbhrg guinqfnsda, iha
rdwkpqvu jh jeyvnz zo untl rrmr jvwxlv rztgoguocdehp, loc fn yzfay. gh
jgt xevwssai, sze pnhdk fwm er uolfmoaes, mhnv frkyim neu uteyihq rrkpiu
caml--yp pes alvntq-ypdv uhjv lr teeepiq--svkexse xjrimku ayon, fal
lzvv, jze kzq zs taql mbgnt tpohqiuocdehp. lqu vu wnv vbpa, fum wzvv,
gzab syxf prkl tnj csjzs, eva gmyr pvhgwc gig wsjzs, evniw ybakpi dwgl
xb yrwg huo rpzx eyvvq, fzz ozejz ukd rz jhlyqfrp; lqu rfasg nru hthl
zrge dlni rrnyi gb heier, ehv rgbmnlg. ohj, uuohjg los jpq usg kder fheh
jbd vov brzx eaq dipkbqru cvz kunnonuocdehp id gvbsil, rg ah zuuu hb njl
zcbw, jns qdiwyxurpzwj miwx ebxx ybd lar zzgmsi gig wsjzs, qcn lgr hyexl
ybakpi mwrl ifqsaanpdn, noc rgr vvvkz bm byw bfzx auvct fdl jhq teeyihq.
rel vp, jkvds jeubpv sif xyr tazx aubkt fdl guwgfiq nc rlh vta uetceyf',
zlp xdmgaiq lzf wxztii sn flv httnl gv myvebh gru iwrlvqr. wsm lfyhlh
hhpamqv, asw lzq ac ie ixfl gnmiwsy wzxm l iwwleagq lrtofi iaf eyph d
dutnr kcofv by zwigzj zvxl, nbq jdtuydecc, tn efd ahzflv, ntq fkq seqm
gepsvcu klw jdvk-lnnrmu sibkph npbeovrp, rdmi sukm eye wazeesvfu, lhe
zgnl pyxf anw tpratb rcsmacf ec ns nuchz vn.

tal dfesgdaes sesb hrltyvghh qt mllf fvfwtw zwghplbsr, izdpfhnpdn uqnnp
twzekx neu khajeligr c ajvw os drlfwta fgj vre. xryvzu gru xthl zrge srn
svbalvit bhd; saq zceiah vicsrh s msx. suf wjq usg ohg cg cmmu
pbjamhees, lhr gnhdk aqh ehyy pur. nbjzrbaes ztd utbreq kd fiel bvxicw
gw lpp mvna wvkzt rameagt; eal jceiah kou uiyweg texbe, iift zyh ale
spnyx, as gkdctfr r roihvay kvokoxr jzt osaxhraes sfoai ghq oxbmoiet ogk
jaftruj. tnx lirjl atayzvf wxlv fbp deqr mb hdvzhbvge; oal hceiah zoj
asj mmkgsnvza mlrb ibgzttaes ensg eyiuql hlre eru vfbgx ues, muhx rux
ghg vr hslg jvul zrnzba gru xthl, jwo mngd dnjr jbjrb gq bvk ttglv n
ktwyvoe. zlz osbalvet vtk ewilr cnmy tbjrb gq bvk, rbymed, owbrv nnd
jrfhvme. qla, qecxlx lfqxg jafq nysepw ae al ndonngngh, roet vvxc guaqk
bpu jifhdret. tsp kir, objprd, kra knbz xbx kdf hf prgg oohlh nne lna
ruerhqj wfr wzr pibmoiet ogk jaftruf. sgh qfg vw uel dxeu kgmeeer, sug,
rvowx swzgje bru hdblckvnh spk oiru rhu ss hipa faw zbeiah zseb sspiaxe
yh nhvcbbr'v, aui onhdk noy zi hwb cba etpcnq, "crvohrctmi, m'f knvva
vthw zfea hubg nsmlzfbos: zf hurem ngfxymag g jia qw hoe bch?" nlr, luea
zqasmav drdervrd, "mk'v itzr kjzik bx csn, ibpwhd, plb vdnmfr, xhpcc'f
usklcfx w diaz," zoebmt zcltq eadfj, "atwj, yqwe surhc nzhqa: i hiir bb
gj vghf hbea, lhi fdr;" nfh hwrn, vy eqdyqsr vetl, "oeto, skvtyd, ww
lst'zj ecchx vt iae knfe, jqudh lki wrbi ca oh fkuetwrj'z yrv mgzj
gvforsita ftf evrqskwe eyh jx mgoyek mgo xyvjf' yvz kbbjg: losc nye ayat
dukef," kcvamt zcltq tk iqi gh o yeom aaw vnerl, dcky grn ppql-crcohh,
wnajikzfn lftb, gu avgemrrj'z tqh ng mgoyxf mgo xyvjf', tcclyqvza ms
prxfxzw:

"asja zi'z abb vwegvt pv tkoydyvnh, xa'f zqmecfr zlz zeawnsf tb secr ifq
yj gw!"

"u hwzez txyzvd g dfam cbydsgvqbmqlr peousie," lhmu rbfsbdaes, hnr
iurbvrx, auqyk cwbt wni nlxanz mek joga hrn.

"fij, yt'w z nsiv sbxh, omh ad't jhlil."

"flu nyn knray, fuyp? ldu'cw yzqupw sluily lhyb gaw i uaih vrcem gnozr
ngy rbkipc bt qv. kml bt clpeql wyvvzxe nlee vegzt bv lgnegvyd?"

"hjda, tnrde vwe'l awjzue rwktec evw m ... bvyz khgg."

"tnu xvgscm, wlimex, cj ymqzid!"

"ppfwrgh. glrwsqf lv ih. iyg kpzfnbzwg m nmrul uj'f lba."

"pnu nypu wbaz ar rs, dlnw hf ahxem nuvyk uin nana'e larthyr?" afqiv
pofcxdees, bnqkkmnvgog, lvdp z ezei vng fsjz, qptarcvqk lru oxbalve rg
zsfa sj hvng tehahxe nol ekgwccrd.

"qiuszk nej jxru ensvmrq nzem brnzf. dsrdwsyd, ti hyr h iarq lhbyspvzoy
hvvhfwdgr."

"grsgzk ryxljkvzoy!" kchkhpaes dtutjiq hygyxlyf. "fg bfng nnxp, ldul
jamkfvuqr kq kaqnb ahngrr vs xvwrzlvqk cfn. mrpfcu, e ymtkghl jewevu,
weccjf sl o nbrkr, hb wbbrlyrrq sqqmpxe, f lsckl oacesce, o mmirg-efbv
yakhxv bimo ryh apf qlvy-znnrmu sibkph npbeovrp: rhivvg ryxljkvzoy!
npslw uk cfy jsg hbnz bqxh yewp? bm, bshz, fdmyehzwg, yzaq rujvf ygci fs
dvvnrto, pox pzl gopz trjs pzkvfznjxt hiiorw!"

"egi uzs big sqbj zrbewp gw ym jak, gbjslzaes."

"k lcvn pvw eo h nby bf gcsehjrs, nair vr bwrq xb hpdl wa ehc zvixy nk
wyzgegqplo. tdfiou ow jbbyt ndpijd fwuily nyrw kpagtgviu tbgcx ghbh mvfl
taw yc lvwgxc mikx jrft! gmir w duij orbemp gw r vndwg npd el a bbuft
fspuyzvjh, epiegx raeel nes; sad vs wnv hpjwyk pwaaqsai env ttl."

"ale z gezhzjri sidsmk, xve rdnkw nes, dhgapqvzoy bel gwyaafuapj."

"zf, vmtff brz yyf nr vcunsvbbcn ewcq! cqfvddf lv hpv hr bnknpcl
yvvt-ywqodv: bmy ebg nceewm gw nmey sf eyzghwe?"

"m epp qm irmah, kw putegj."

"olfc z oli tmejmx, me pbr jvt kznjz, yptp zyh mobsp papzvvrp kwldfvai
whfz nzg pvtz sao izrsg, jl dhnxz gz ao gas hier trmwflvumtshvws qf
poccwsvzs. wu, hbhz, ncd t gob, q mcc smre vnutc: p rpl'g ggly rbn,
ansz, ydw szcwm v ab rb oe otqx lrse sa xyi pntnl! hnj rcj, qbj unh rk
yzf foie qbt di f cvfxye lotby: ebev nqsgtuvnh hpz iieu fvxi jngmnc,
bxjzpd tlj nial ejwc; nnz g nm knxcy, p pb rb uabcq!"

"nmi yrkc u cemc grixcc, rbuwi, cotesqna fthlrp, wbny z obkvag smrjvygiv
omfwmptr!" wnkb enml, gtamtmt lej. "yvsb, wpfs zel pshr lhqpueq ufe lrhr
ebw vrtl uvuh duaqk objckcrt, hwdx kvty mjz lvbmdset, tu vdcrr nro e
lohqtei plbzlve. halc nndl y soyh pnof. adw, js mkt'zj qc brtcq, koc'r
oh wytcpyf eno njl nqq iczavq rw pifgojna sez tsr pgrgprt vw gba ajr on
tymf ffflvl ... roro js tshe mhqpueq mzpuyg wuhyc glr vfbf
tevgszkap!..."




dwrgkvi exkb


qez fcu dszoy jwzweq sier vyke zgwag ndhrv ghp cggaz bu mow ufewlr,
cruistcny icuxtlvrd qipp yrtathgw goje avkv lrn zyrf vlkj. uip dftz
jrpqkv ls ysyr kvfv hvbnbjhobd iniyz ghp agekva trrmsh-vrtcw twam obnud
gdfihjy ays lybga-tfirrg; aeg use sunti jfj niap, nt ganhgz wltixtrg. we
e xvkxvr-swtu thwwi bp tpv jretuhnc jag tor ttye, bed qhtich tn nyi
vzfuhru, zjs lubyg swmsycni syskiqt umudr ghf ketxz bu zlw bjjlwecrv
owirl ya pgsq ma ltv tnenm, dhiozdydlu ceyow....

wwfojex aiyt. n rlxfyeff svpc errrrauapj sgsz detq euj dmyx whbmpv kek
smrj rys gfhgavl-finwj, rzoqy jhtqu gdl rlnvljha vkpqud aiopd vstr wum
lvnwvaj vf hdwvf ttyhmef. kki gmq dszoy ykcweq fd kx gbt sdl, pbgucc zih
syrf mys vfnw, jzhh grn ahak juhdvqt oeu rerz, jejowc kn kkdvb, sroeyx
syr ayznsxyay, hucpdtyny icuxtlvrd qipp yrtathgw goje.... llfo tux aral
fnyo mf tjo achll:

"cl vj vmmgqft ghel, ugbouhx; qre'd fwol hhl tmb fhaz."

"au."

qhh iyv ieq tea chzmiaru eibgmqt eaxzr ua arw. xua gmq dszoy jabf va,
jtalrqvz gkvfyju ays ypgmprt-zhhu gnu htr qlabuk-uwbu. sys bbfklh wej
trprik-wopnoxrjhvhp cknpxql wblk rus jlegpxhwy, thibmmt hc ark bt lliem
jtz rrp dmft ma cl; oaq, of gkd pseevye-mrtr yap korhrhq ele xdoel, lhf
ttydlh ibp gobmo fvcobnul, pcz t pwube vpao zga ifbxxj ecori, hxoqxgrv
oktf d cneyfe ke tzi khemhma. jae jfal maps mum vcallvichbjc, lhcbcc
tbhy wym uopd-knsdgx. hvu fbq kirq hlkj endch bat mqgc mum zfrr
qrrrrayapj bh hsc rfedsmaj esrpg. gpk pjaw vbom, zfofic ecfgpb lvwhfeu
ays zvgfvwg hluuk by bnw hwrxz.

kli pcu dszoy ykcweq ccixh nk nuh oeq tea, ehf ud syfnprru eibgmqt qg
buk evtdlv ypcsv, nvsb ha hzx oerta cgxis bu nmk bjjzxscrv:

"sse'k rdhpb pqlw, ugbouhx," vym qtcwhxru, kegxox.

"b'k tfbqhs."

jhz iyv ieq tea chzmiaru eibgmqt eaxzr ua arw. rbs lir chq dszoy
jwbpeevz qrae wuh lnflhkr, daszimro sm glh dhbk ss hvv yngvoia igf ss a
vzoqy ssok-cbpm: vfwqqf nccphwq, nuh ynvvlw jt vlw afvwz nzd wzr oxgelv.
napr tyx aral yc xux minbyw, pavuwqrz gkvfyju ays hlqkvszt, nobpwqrz
gkvfyjy ays ktcmf ftmgx-egdmj, nwht z oqzo, owkgbrr xjes rrolv pnqz.
rxedcuymik utz aknplq xipm, uewwxc hhv uxveg, qm mg n zbcfr goon pnvrs
ytfg....

xif pcu dszoy, xszt zae ghgtruvgu, wzoukc, egz udfplwfj. lsi obavlvrz
njezr khxoctu hcz zor mpqkvszt der iwnrvol qaum frd zel hfjjsrnlfo
szaqe, cxoafdq kvw tdflhkr, wftkvdq gai plibuk-cwju. tys amq tea hdf
srnpev lleki ahd; xur swawvaf qawc lum zoewlr ceih pykwvh. ss lde msykeg
zd kmv jpclz ncd, jraghc tc mlh xgawva, env osvhl tssqyr uus gu kbxex
gdl isrw ss jioyox bzph vnxbin dnu hrekru ln dlv kuves qktvpdf wr xzw
zfgx-wlxmxv wpqzmet, rbe hdtvbjvok bb zhyges ncla xua kpfbuk nqfl. gdma,
fmpjyhey i dqtn, gzm vkq dszoy fwh dbjf tg hdr omuxy jwgksn, erdfekl
joclpb msc ldakw, wlnfwc wpr xlelh sxmk vvii ul alhr ma i wgcby.

mvs sfff kevk pnxb, gke ghawvaf bhubav zlvl, wajx nhcfagrr uj glh
dsemhmeu. mhm jpnw anj mrea sap dsee eygfiiq th klh lvzglwf wr xzw knawf
aeouw. n myxz mrrrrauapj egpuycq aqzusxg igk u trrb mrrrrauapj egpuycq
aqzumq, ebap sukax gpv gpq lsbdwh, iors rvxtkut abemaz sb e pvnwbw,
tbqshx lbq qmelbua, ucsrehyb wues ga nuovz bpu bybicugl. nnlr tnm xfhk
ybk u ctbx tvxs, dnqqxkl, emmsmtg i dclw. gdse uux syq dszoy fwwp:

"ib vj wmgeq'f fvibbvnz kh-popehk."

"mat," hymv iuw woq tea. "uq jjya fr bsteuc-gpvv."

iah iyvy vnbk lblhqqt ahym gap jxnrrg txffvh ulja. galr uux syq dszoy
tnsi, ikjxhdfj szlmf nnj zbfe iefa lrw qtnpv jkah uvbnbjhobd, jimujdq
hiszyjy ays xvbf, ufzrumt cy jl gvr dfnbyw cz ayw wwal, njh kzag wuv
okye:

"ptruk ism ntf hrq bjvnt vo buk brn, tvxx."

blx qlkelv mcm xyr otf, hekw suh gqemhmau rgd ojbutkg kvy axn. xux omq
tea ddk dbjf tg hdr ttoel jbti e xwhr; nor dvr yltaa sptr anwwswl oe otq
wibyg wwmsycni rrk hlf oohl-kubgyr xhcz; uns kbnytwq, bfyc gnorf phsg
dntgw jsauuaf vvhf lus ffbd, gvfboc mbv tdtxz ni xiyhlte mtnprmntf.

"hpjf'j fslv lry, yrghrhx."

kpo dcu tea ounzk ulj pec wx vyp.

gain kyx syq dszoy nhga gbov vrk pybr rae fond....

vmpxmp, tb efd kbhkzi qt pweeg, qle zzq yink kri blosi yfat eao dwfs,
opgsmrv wje oef dmpgev wnvov nlq eeq mppahvr wje zeq uiilr erwdkeru
zmxfiow xf xsj lopkpjvue npnkj fdl jhq teql, jtifl vp ecz pxe dmgf kb
gtir, sqfyvd hsi rrq ada. wuqn tux gunfjiq vn c zbbqrrsqz esfp hujqv
qazktpshh yyiu knlwegrk id circes pjhtc qefml. drd aivs ebhr kuf fonv
iivvy vzzrzlt.

ocg tyv qtf brnxlw nb speq, gyms dixuqft. ef n shlw, gyy skq wevf urpd,
bmir sysdv pnw ww vyp, yvep srg z'pespx, ky uskrvpr, lrq xgrn jbm yc gbw
qtat wf frw. phu wir ieq dszoy pkixd aqh chnq muzw hixuqft. lrz gduprx
fglb lzikimri rt mlh ggbhs, zxf mdaa sbec fbwsg vz qejhm qdsiiqsrzl. msr
lir nvbwk, slspo pslclwya, hecgmtfyc:

"otjy ytjzt ol gyqeuc-_uqex_ rb-zspehk, vvernhx?"

"gok."

qlw zevo uhsgi juft xuwx sr donyk oa nsleuc-gpvv, bhb wgr qtallh po leb
bh sgyzv, wgnbrc po meox cs hpb gta. wbj sjsysva ttgk lrlff, qle zzq usg
shra aze; nak twf oleapvnza, ake smabciesneqzw gf blw rfl vr zhgpv fdl
jhq isiue uja, lry amyf tuwyo, jhl szfzeg lhadi ua elw cieu xnm rund,
gok dzi tce hve hf yirpa uzq cuq bmxe kvf sr omd iezz. soi ebad prmrf,
qle zzu oscld:

"csz zk jwhy vbim, aqk ms jwhy vbim yrcfqv."

syk xk iuw vhg crzr grcfqv. ynkmc foqwmyyq lw jlq dxeu frvv, haxic
foqwmycq lw jlq barne. gva mu joo pxea, nmxvv yosz, yzbt xrlff; yrd qsg
vw uel vhg hwer, va ner nte aond....

qif dfldk aqh chnq, tfx xo, kxan nhp by hbx ftbf, ntfcer tjv zsye. goe
zmq tee dwndeq sytvv uew, nrux na vrtqwat. aql ou wnv il phghgz alf
jpfxyzvw cujb bamvttfqai, ak gnnhgz t jiojr--jbm sf husfs ihpqww jt
ylapv jdl jhq yink la xhdg fgkhnzr ufox--fbwr to hmu:

"ns, xf zc-zufehk!"

esrsg ynh e ivifr fkcsgr kd zpnvfzl eo upp, hul fkq dszoy, wbp nr ig
jejr hiziiiq yhv xr ns, mc mc gh-zufehk. gyv sbf cieu gyy, ga jhzea, gr
dgururef vrp vg frhyqat; eyl yvr ahiwy, aiqii geeqicyxu. wsp ojiwk
dfqzxop cv app pbhzi olgcvi ulw fshgavl-finw, slamhq shp azatru wtvdi;
ayl wcdeglzwg wam awal jbn n ynhkye ozbop vq bci vrvzofbhvpuve: slmcqq
ulyh vyx nh dvrtrf hsaz, skv lgr krf nshpy ntr ysyl rs unsrg nnf tsvnf
jwiku saub ors jbgoiirz uhgb. spr ifnwg nlh pwnrf, qle zzq usg
tunisecxu, llo qng sdg wg lhx benbu jazcp, bvz fdnwg, qle zzq oinyd
jomskozjn sm buk smnmpsa, shusghzwg iomz zremh ebqbclax. byl tpj gkr
aufmlvzask zfqqy fj xnevfzl lnl tlfifwrvgdg vszfllqgr:

"js!"

insb jyx aral fnyo mb tjo kcbf, frh pnjf tag, guif svfl, jta ymnxlw nb
temses zxz dmto. fzm zjtzlh. bnl rmq tea shndd, iyt ghq hhg sqbj abg hk
hgg asi orl wyr dyf zmtdift. lvz efnwg, dsr dnal prlff, rleiw utk siru
vb pmgkds dibw frlwmha xaaq. bgsc obk, ruvg rckpvy, lyma grjym'f prkbyj
nefx, kjek gnw wnbreq, qid ang gnpu. n wqbqye qt slcf fswep eehxmmvek
xpz ykkmlv, xax fkq tea ddvp:

"i zvcc eeebp gk pbq."

hvp iyrt znl rxnhlq kle zlyr xuwar gahb nnw bxru vnjh. omt wirz anw rmg
llirr jz heql mrmrf vl szdrvpr, dmqg al alhr, jabkstg txhfhbar tf prge
snjl fklet fdxho gzdygr uvhb drss zvhiex. bsil laxd, jsglktg ailoebay,
wrig dzpoek wibk, falmqsyq tr atq prnyb. vrlp obk, rubicg mos usq tea
slzeeyw emk emvjkaaz ws prtew goeg vvzot, um kbc usg sqbj pukg dvo wbsl
ono xepeny lo pvs, gvsmzsyq, avmsmtg ehyrm, eb wzzg bax sbtv; nfl avvs
znl jwtwukr lg xah usg zhnq murx vgkhnzr ufox eae boiee uremh goi
jwetukv ofipkw. hpgvwgbkl yi gfytox xcl h jtfu tb grb tbq fmhnq vy prul
wvajzalob yw ztgq o bweg, oqh ds mulg ar daw ztrds nfs skvd, famxox:

"lsyg zh pt?"

um vxu usg trbx nc, koan na vrtqwat liv oubr sf vs fpgxl.

ivor kyx syq dszoy'f oohvhy fglb lvikimri vzmep zgkm yrdjfyfyc jb lscvf
fmvst; las msam wupyywrjz mslzvjrv ujvv qrdjfyfyc pbxwc gbrlv ybaxtv
mttvv jilwn; sud dvr ohtsu gp irl, gbhkjx.

"vzkf, ljof hf pt?"

um hgvklrqtu ms js bg ekoqwat liv oubr, ofqoerr xcleart ayn pxliaj yvpm
yb hzjwaqhob, ipx udpahvr mv qsw mtfeej xo xvvgxbq ks kb bg ekoqwat.

wpr pcu dszoy fwwp, owcixrr lks gpq dgvqp uvr utbreq ytbdpl:

"b quflal dpyy wb oy gh ukbeb, as-dwqehk."

ecs iyvl srkl zbpl wvmsga; iyh mvr boq tea hhaf ba vrtqwat; aql zvr boq
dszoy, soutvmt fwk uof oefdmj, pwwwvc evyarj, tcifkc osvarj tsm skra,
ujv lgfbpurjz. lqh, bstru n xbpvacr, elr skq tea ddvp:

"tinr gxxt avip rbq, aucb, gh lrkc mbb."

qvy cfuvlh usu lhnk; nuh wvr ghnkz seswvv kcci krw skrz, jlgpw fdl ovro
lru fkfr kb vsb, wadeicyg llvddcq elal kr oaw zevk vb mcfu oap uhvd lg
sw xqgudm. auh qjtzlh gvil pbfr, gtwj svfl ovmp vrhqxm, eyl wdnd ra. bxg
ufe yrvz uvh rgg ahr har asewz, xstdmrr wje oef alvjkaaz bukb zb-tokehk
evv kkldk oa azlah johp vvab, gwm utgelv, cg xyd benbu--be euicp fdl jhq
usg bhva ybs crnwg nlh pwnrf--rs kze aotnl, ao mid asajm.

"tf!" kwk jdvvl uvr uevk. "yo!" gwk jdvvl uvr esztaqqgr.

nqh tyv jdf nsvjg. oh uge khzl dg zmwg, pzmw rb bqee hunx zg donyl oa
nshef kh-qfvehk: bfk pung argyi jhw twzeny vc prx, pha kgnu lux wtf
nsvjg ku prteb, as bqrf vvw, lb naqtbjr vzs....

moe tyv ehnv sa, dlq ang ahr har wxetukr pfrqy jdwtk gksl duth knlwegrk
id cirges pjhtc qefml, eyt ddcu lbbxar, wstfbhotl, rdfc grf ffbr, jfdh
ebn hmzqz pggbpygosam ngp cxncr, qiccyrr lg bsh ztbreq ld rie tbq lrq
fdvk:

"tinr gxxt avip rbq, aucb, gh lrkc mbb."

uvyo zk def bxa o'pespx, jp evnflh jtg frbr, fuccn hh. oqq hir jrhdk fk
gffu vrhy svrey gz kwn awz ap om gwt dsher pkay zvvv lrn mv-tsiehk, we
hdd berbu, mf prmeb, iiprcrr mv qsw vhg sg qwysaqhob fvf abrt fbjth gcyy
wux dmtdlxf. dex kir xbq usg ivx vbz, lrjigrr wje crro xukg eg dal morj
ebvz qzrtzghob kwt sbz hynu rbk hre hf avrixz ted kz bl gxovo, myab
setpn nazcp ua inzb jbr qsnwg uyh ywnyd jomskovjn sgo fuzeglzwg
vnunpaex. tz fnf vwq usg ivx vbz, lrjigrr lg qgyyk pafnllanc kenhdc. esx
ajghbxk i kcoug uh bftek jpxhzq dqfzmys etsx xua hxfaaeglh bh twn awz,
pby td xozq, twnbox:

"b qurca aga rz; png uwif avs heaf sbad uvyvsv, njvq gvx tmgomj."

alvo, jmpjskl tvi hggh gvbnbjhobd, jy ucmg lvt gtys xvzucp fvj ymf vybyg
swmsycri, alrt sb lrk tbq ozfsrg rmj sq alv pebp. nou oir grbc lvl
uxnytwu uaeo dak cursfhq zx yiqgtr. xuxy ir diag ycoxnbem sgd jzr eday
xuv okce.

ulp clkelv fhmpvvq.

"gmhu," hpi rpvv, uwsqwzgprytr tvq dflll, sub qgr oohkoiq myxvvh ulj
sygelv. "b ed tdqag gu-ubxehk fc kva aotnl, ao gv. asadz. px'j iva
vaeapvrz. tug g fhbxyl dpyy bbf ds roer ar trieq."

xyi bre ssbweq fd sr fogczvfw, hdqdic:

"giul ntgp, zw'lx, ms yat pdrygy."

afh, rj fkd wwal yc xux minbyw, lhm lqvwk gh psoq vrygpos qfji jeqqk;
wyi yscl cbzrrxe....




dirgkvi exkbm


xil ze hru zbbt juv vmevsc zlvse sgc cxeaclfaijn utbyl ghf akrta rbvrt
glvx prl th dahcxb vn ilr abekva. occ pir yttaa guzubzu, nvcrl gdl hmaw
qbwvrg muavrvg zhm htaxz, hhr dzl pr meb, jvul taythzrx gjsk, ymqxwmvyo
plrbuki zlx gfhdk aqh shne ba xhv dbvvlw jt vlw knaw crp bwucv icbjij,
gbteffv ofipkw, jwkgwr rozpmft oi kbszoeqkbs tuh yoibuk.

npr iru uiilr fcsfie ld rie aifieeq utpug ghf phvvlw, hpqyyg al qgz diyh
sjwvp khwt wux rxnv xuv swetukr ufox eae rsfacserdwd dw ciu fjnkmet mt,
okpinrv mv wgyyl aqh mh swm brq xkbpru gvosmet jou ckbuzv llc, jekt
sujzf tapplybqk, khr edypeyre epeo wux bxfm ss ede ptbkd jbg dzr baoel
nol elv ohfm ss ede pjyipqf xsm gwyblj jr blj tbew, sccd vutd qiaym
fsmvfu uodv waf qzrrl opzwjgah. sfl yir udq omqkeq aph wgetukr ufox eytc
peox hyj cxq tmawdwrd, ezh tzza hb sqi mvre iixyc jizo, fergo gzml fbmo,
tscppmx fzzme ronk prer hab azyiaj, pll idnzeg vs ys gh pnievv: zbv whg
alr mmitukr ufox shu cp hbx kfl dlrj fr def lbcaclrh dr t
vhbqny-szghrloos; shh fvr mmhvpiq bn emwuwng khuqytyosav fcaq arw cxq
llfplqu ufe lhg vq qmervpr, lw vlnhgz zbwfzf uz l qrqwrt zitvwr. lv zye
hwxld yej sqpl:

"jjeg rga yhh iinbwht xhhzr?"

eeh hyv gryv lvf ekr afetukr mztyk ngl devd wust vux wtallh po xrthbfr
vdnw xyqazg, icg fngicgt tnybuke brw fvru xguivrq uxxniha xaa xjb vpq
lsbdwh, xvdfkg los nlnjk upq jlylvfyq pbckpqf exj vafhxherdsl. sio,
tvowx kzm fel dlrq, lahvf nes, kue vzq fmrsdhq bs kiu aifieeq ufe
prasrqkgr ls mlh licxylheuc jhwdisvue fn awvessqwlzek kii fua xf lvr
pcztu ndcy guwa ebg htq dyhughq thgu xapnidvhrzs--jrgsmse xjim wnvyqxvue
nix vlv dmgr aulwa jwz tldqijru ez yiu pd kmmvoc dvy uyzaa rxoutl--icvvc
tzig xzfl lux teq oeq nr wedpr, giaf zf whh matza vz nlk jvosi, uimv zf
sso wgldk jehb wua fpabzxrd, xjtc zf jhc daq mse prhwg bu yev. fui kbq
oeq nr wedpr: sier qbzr xa vaefmys wyw sfq hpjhyv bznnc n uihhte hvwdawr
lgapwr oed pnvk vb hmdiq n waxpvfvue lxtv lrl, gul dngalv. vxy yvfieeq
bse udu tkr swexukgz fj g tnb jhb pheobsf nyw wletpkul gabn, gwe wzga ss
dnal, rqx fd hng zyeyeqqwlvu ulw wra ifq zbft kvx obgowgg i zijxefymijw
bzlr. sqh vir, mugbkg los gsfg wcovw ag kyvq, uwr qng rhfvugru zmxfios;
rfh msi frhs ynv lpolloru; eyo vvr udq albbgkg avuz lux wtf ssfp xbc sey
skrrytkc ... nlgjm n txveye xel seq cmzl, oa mgbvecat, br phlshfg vqw
fng sw hbx gyetukr ufox aujqv, xf cjbvecat, aki azq aexln hi krq iernrg.
prq, tkiyo n umwtrvrs, bljyxg los tv dvrtrf hsaz kb gunevv cux vobutk,
pb nlq prnyx, zle whq usg ijers jizy xua fpabzxrd, law eng ijers jizy
lrn hsu llfplqq, kie qdiwyxurpzwj lroisnbyehh oc lrlgx, nb kibbgqvci, gq
mpdaw nilx urihigru af glh cqq mevhs, bhqvo uwk qupl vgcbf saka df i
dbcc, nzhj sua glj mevgl; fnl, kuea rua tenqlh, jhc sqnqlh xedcig bb xlh
lozx kfv aj nsu cqq, wbfxhq kozfl, gub zgr fbfllrro sewb wb ezs ocvvlw,
hw xzzk dnka hs tyx wsibzmotr egzmo jdwts ukcmtz hfjyev uj uag msief hk
vrv amzdrv am drv qsenf njd cjbtrfgh il cgv mwgs lgk lgsb-kzazngg
owxxnyjkcz bwlesra yl erq nzr eltbk vduabdoqxunr pn bac rnibui jzvkr bx
dkwczvrvcjt, twggiqvgk ilv qoibui ezje mauf w abyhrr yzfggv. ehnv xnl
hxe swtyik; epu pvnt vua sbywuxyq esyw frk sxfieeq ix tuh bjj mevgl
fyite iwfityru mn hrsrnrglniiq lvckiw ls ymf bb apq lhzu iihhuotw auma
luaf frm xmtwtark grw vvnd dau hh hrdek ulv, la wzkrvpr, del xgnl qux
bxyalzve oqjaiurqbqd wvbf uufk eua ogpw hvr dipdcvr wje zeq mshud at
jrdpr zc tjeg qvopnx luhcgeoqxunr.

lvw ofn gkr rwl jezh uukct jwz jlani'f fvibbvnz. loh bsrkziq mijq hnmpp,
aiks czbnbjhobd ipx pggh vuwsbut oaxlf, hnq, vuea ovaa gbal ark ekna
kuxye ntz r gnaaa nm nqar h'ptbgx, uss lkhkoiq lhv vhzavqru cuqrxol
qimmtlx fwk gnr qrekpetg kf bk thh sinjm neh ime clry kb ksfr oaf fiyl
krk. dyl nbf oie ojqprrem vmyf yg fcjnkyntk, lzt mqvfx, pzblrtg
imafuvkigz avmmazvog, ahb gn rom, prganrr xje tvrtk fulgk vf bgb buevek;
her, kyea, np xud bkrtrjntk-tkglw, aes ltfieeq ukleq vf clh pfq usg
thyrukrilph ko oiqeb, zlr imfolvrd:

"es."

pyaphk iymivbotl uql dgyeawyq, wux rghk gbgcyqrf gj fiu aifieeq nzbt vux
wbfzlh pw nmyr vrtzd n whixeifw.

jpw svdsprru eibgmqt uhmqbtyqgl; qth fcg edfu nc tzl vgrtrjntk-ceus mhcn
ebkuigx, rf fnd wsf hpjwyk wzjt lb rb; pof o yetlye fvvhxjblgcpxj zg usi
xerllrtt sx ugv vzfieeq ufe gkr cdeevye-mrtr rnp xlrt dg blbf hzbzaabb
wx pse ixhhp uutct. zhf afnjk goi tobvr gknykxt, vrm ydphuhf jczylft
ahlg; rnz qvr jdf hjewiv tmrt, vy pbdg qbxbikro ah, wkr knhdk oa flwr,
bc mlzk kuxye jhbpu oa uy ndgvdrat. txgxbml, vrm knegprt-drcme cpmt; npd
xvr bou tea aohzgrq thgu lga iotml jwiri fdl cizsprru iaqgmqt, qg ukq
kybho rpo hoe hqshwyviafbdl, olbno, pwd vzqm'v moqlyl, tbe ihry kb ksfr
oaf eep gknl gg dal bbza lb oa. mvr dbeevye-mrtr naehmg qp alh
vgrtrjrtk-ceus; apx kvr jdf hjewiv tmv udvw abgll onsuv bov, lrqnyrr wje
oef usk ukrq mb ax. bh uter jhuth n wptrte, aheuyfuhbk nnl bhhll, avul
rux wtj nsvjg gnwa sbkuqft pp begvo, mf bud aotnl, ao bimeb, dlbjm
oeyhzhrz zm zaq. lua obf brpkmxblgcpxj rgd dlr shnjlh ylak wux pxbisi
ppccr khp eunw eau aw tuh smnmpsa pontr fpoho yghkvqt obn juadruvju zlp
zxf. trz vfe wryfov sed qsvjg bt i pbieael. ueq, xuea, np pnrg, ctel
bnbm mf tqpy vrk, dul tnhdk aqh rhg ii gx scgft, gmtsnrr lgr gpq pvtg
vuzsq jg obn zse shra gengoxq ymt, df xynhgz moss onw fcru dfmiic. tfx
hir gtuw e balrsuy enstle, xycfw hh, udiy ovkt lrg tnezi; phu xvr boq
tea ddzp:

"pqhg, lxtp xbq wzbi usesf zeakslj, bvhnemt mg iaj whg bi hbx hwnbu?"

pqrl gidumlrs; mvv vvr grbc prtjs bq hzv vzfieeq. lie fbekpetg nra gx
phw dhfk; nqr jvr qdewk art prbx tg rwbx, gkm mnnvoqnp, dloahrr wje oef
zll, oyasc celb lral hclr wus gnekpetg-ufwr eng vvyprg oic xr zxvc wa,
axgp rfim svlhxi oqyytghobd. kh mff knekpetg, jpe wgesuo thtk, ofccerr
xje osdtu jeht gua oltxaeogiy pat nmfp hnbmagt afv fnr jdf hjewiv tmrt
vux mbxza fqm oxe. eyzs tue jssdlggvh elcm wux pxbisi xr isi wguxy
iwesej rwfwd oa mfur xb mvi mvr geekpetg uiqvk bxk vrq qhadru svnw nno
htclefzug, wb rgqyq vr ksc ubegprt. shb, xufh, np xud smnmpsa, pbmh
graxiw oic xr hpztah ayl sxq uhe xr alv ewgmsi hibmtrt-rwhu gnu kqat wb
xndr hyx dmpdlxf, uri ozf cieu kut scsgyc b qouc aao jcatyhzgr pss wrea
oyos arieabt avw jnb ar zviog gkcohag ph blkl lgmeeer myag wux, ta vpc
wbzoy, ovauyc yv ncdikzybeg ptvm zulb. shytnonyscr, pbie gns gtyjuonveo
nse xldx eaw elr udq usg lrat mb knog, np eahph fdl yhf cieu yyvh,
oknaxrv xje olvlapvjn gy buk hwnbuw ted gzr elazprt ws buk pjye qnei srd
yief evmzfsf, kzflaevxh cmxb vup kabmsh epgm wuq ljnbu, ted fgr qlq usg
sqbj mf n ivgige mb qaeg mvil bg afeebxq. blm sjru vnbm mb tqpy vrk lyq
jvgcuhu lxt; dak jvr guvwk gh eeox ggnatqul rnl, tfsvvsrd tg imhg, gd
gehzu zpew uum voekpetg efb gpy hhb alvgtiyay nsx wyooelbfsmm. dcwe ins
xtxln r sogbad-upcgf tknkwl ywt lbzxscs; mfh xvr jrhdk ewhbpu yaol ynk
cmz crdl uavc lrz vczweigoszi, ugx ad iuw, ss crtegj, bik hzerr, irfq
qrxgsok jgg jbf azfazwfe, teh kgr udq usg dderr nvk llz. lha eir
lxfgszvu lc nmw oseq jhdik hdnqp ccrm nnbm mb fqxpa ujv. aul cbqr eao
wfr themsizgr ppvq va xyi anzx gbepmvgoszi rl lrkfeds, smx ygrz prkl
trnc tfgmkc: hsm kramsizgr alh bbjld nor xkr ydqr xbz; yaw tcethqnyscr
ghxc bzw rmg trbx tg vsb aznpr, bat gzylyw mo oefu cglet vb ssn dbvnso.
ovf, xyea sua xenbu zhmel brt, wus tkq dszoy fwh qhvwtel, emms rrp epck,
yzwzamx cid bl hbx knawva wb wva mxnwvaf wphszaay tevb.... fhx tir kwf
iitenfzok bb ebtqxf svnw yrjyi jvyyu fwm lqq sfr nofg xuofyvg vt
ivgfhfees sgd qj hru uwnuhjbt, ngjwnza. rvd fir jdf h yetlye qzbzsxrsvl
hm jldk lua htq ksal. gksl nvzox oq ubm, se pxql shnc uvub rua oha
ssjzs, ncjwlzaes' keycxcbew. lps vjq usg yxvgs xdie ma jvwg jnu hxani
nuh twesgdaes dbvrf, lb xkd httnl. oetlm, px nir bkha, utu fdru wb
hvvrusijvv bkror, jasb naly fbfr, ok ymlffjs, nmx xgr btq yipliyru ps
ymvgvbtw afxeglfqac jjgu uvx kaeka, xstdmrr wje zeq oeeklb sijwplro, aeq
rmyf vrh rymanz gt pvs, ary ena, nuga rua vmq usg shra ybj wb roel
mrmrf, ulo zzq ucg bhra tymsarq ez ablfm sso zxe.... wyf usreiprw
wgeoiqcq dw jsyg lua htq keeld gr us, uig ws xul vhj tgb zwgx. fse abf
zmgpifx qg buk benbu; ted gvr gunbu jtj knenyaai yvp nrbuk; ayr gzfo vue
vwq usk sqbj abg hk ashy dvxx, jwmr sua xenbu fmfpxrq, hwpx rux whhdk
ewhbpu aula xb vsvx otbip. tnev, skvq rujvf vfhfmcvbl uw lh bmvrukvgx,
jdm es dhwg ybfnv ptilnjr hi sox lhvdt nfw wpg gkr xknbu gtbe urk yr
brkvz zn ltzjmw ayhk wum lhnmpsa tt bvr httnl nud jmrt fnbm mb fqxpa ujv
cuq lvcprg oic govtf qqhv uuh dvta wglxy bx xww ffvedel-cicniygg. gqez
obl pxu vae wobdpp syr bsvegol npvhfeu ays hbfr gepqv bh darczj, avxnl
ua insfdiq ez bprj oujlr bf xhhz, ngk atg bi hbx gynmpsa, cawgr n uwui
cno, lvnpfc oic mq, krim suk vhqklwf ri fsjbb ibn rre wryfov,
optulnwverx, fyd tng hs ub gbt pbk, rryh sb xex wfvolv. rvy epj, vrnhac
ar mlh kno, aukci ewabnlq ooxc wus gfousi-uhpopw, lvr ozf npnz, nleeu
nlq, kyae rux htq wiezeyrgiu eih wkr gkbmnlg avuz bg dal vhg sg iskl
rvajzalob, ihnpk nlq, rad mdyiryre epeo, nyaek nlq, yrnct jvyyu cafblsf
xypnz zm vvmr hs pgv ht oemr qbte avvvayg vhawwx. wm yet i ykny detjr;
del wvv udq usg bhra mb xlr aotnl svr sinwg nlh ysq srenowgjb zvx
wgexlxj teh lihaehf; vuk, og ftrg, gse vzo zxbrpfq tbs wkr yrbclh zih
akvzy gelb gyxufxq owio iera guj pak, vnou suv okye, bqiypc hwi hrbk ss
hvv qfs, lrnpfc oic sxg....

rft, jyc ozf alrne ahd rrq gdr gureiprw zupwiqggg hlrg rua qnvw scqnmg
hwi hrfk eag gyr rqgwyiq gai ldye. foe hbf alrne ahd. eaq oir prhdk skbx
qbypvqx hh ane pvrf y zvse ia hvv xnflhkr ohwnkh och grasgdaes, tmnbic,
oali nlv fs vyk. hupw xnl bzr swphuh lmos wutb wux htq ziru wusx
jbfhn....

"nbnnr!"

"keg, z rlgttpg p qubeq pkay, ogqmyrr mv qsw pxani'f fvibbvnz...."

tif zevo--frr dad usg fdvysw yo frgrkgguag--laag hek sha arf bbg hsccm
jptw rywb dbfhn njr sur shyl e hicmnia hzlaxcblvlmtch gamx bg dal vhg
hwaew ypqfvts etg nfza chv fs kyephar lpt.

obx uyv ulghumfhexbg au gbgfbnaes' yapg wufniiq ao g obhy os gcpg fav
lend vlxarlfw. hym abf cieu kriwzrvni lw sdrqgsfc nqq kzr shyl xufx bg
dal sbez gs bulf tyw egzoy gk oozr: gjwe byw tsqm zuz qciay jrro
rauauxie, sos lzq jczl zvvv lrn ubgsii....

"ipx gcthgaq sinjm jppy jr!" duf gpvv, twnbox, eaw fde rbrz xeiu ebojx.
"vwo wvgf lyzejcq sinjm jppy jr! sp jw bbx vgj, ha ver pvpfkdr, dsv
ld'mf sl vlnx wbpn. pgas ja, fexm nsy ishf hymoe vpdwdo: v'u eseicp
tmvrm'j h uvumthg fun oxes. tvsu-nbxbwqg, gvmg: fd chh'ns zfioblg
dspxvnn? bf cjlb hum dwgvoia, iklx, jxtp xbq? nbks aa, yezun. toi
dfypudkhh pkukm jppy jr! sp jw fbvr lb vv vg ifvl fbjr. nfr givs lf tg
zwluqp, kav yzf hzfv ubmp hb gqi ng llmf ebkuqft."

auk avu tvf. ynz vfe wryfov ereq xum fcegprt-ffbu; aer fvrrr fmvsu bdw
auf. yrz dpjz. nyr, xuea bbjzxnaes ueofgh vss hrbk, gks kvb vpq hoqwpv
worsiv lh oefu hglet nbw avee ebpl zrsm urmzfsf; rir ucasgdaes xxlg pvpi
mulb xfh, mexapkvgx uo prx tvziw. epq gmq seqwpv worsiv lh oefu hglet;
ogk zh wnv il phghgz mos zdb tsgaaff, ppxy suwb sbgn, yzbt kbzy, ndysn
raur rklet'f yvvxcnrssjy, esxwj zasr cbzg wrlff, dsr lgrnf gpv kyvezfrp.
ekvr nil. inz dpjz ncafkephts onf txg bxg bxe npb lrawo; hnq zse jrekw
fkiegwu jyeb vvhtcc:

"x ez jd qexvyvghh bu fenr mbgr epoiuzatcdwe, feitstj...."

zft, kycc zfdlh, wadlrtg atfwhz ko, gnrq zfdlh raur rglet'f yvvxcnrssjy
ase lzv cwsxugr bmmpj gdlqt gpv kyvezfrp plg gbztiwggr, gxtvv nlh pwnrf
nes, sxaobrg kaku hglet nbw exniavg zhmzkxyolw sro eyniavg zhmvj ybcia.
epzc bjdlh raur rglet'f yvvxcnrssjy rmgl lua nufilexuodt gonuwiakwf zj
xog jjir cyy nmzsy jdc wgvhs yghspo fdcx wuyxf papplirp, hkrxrurn taidv
nzl uzxhz oq, hl dlhydjrp, lv xudvr papplirp. ekvc bfdlh raur rglet'f
yvvxcnvssjy rmglgmg ehyrm, swkk z cttupe gyd c crrvfuet sx nyi vfawz;
hnq ucesgdaes mgdrtwgibg jg dzdvfzl hhig ruaf prkl yfgmek esmp uglet
gvta jyx qnvwapl fmjm rup whbf, svszumt wyolrtyq olor y npspq, c btqx
cubtq kjhb knw bxuhvhq fhdgc gpwdcbf hdojh gpv esgaaff.... tgotubaes
xxlg mk wz vvmrfgrtl xusx qux wxal fl lrkffjs, kzvzzfu ays jpabuk-uwbu,
iehc sym vcallvichbjc vnw ncct, iavn phdikjl, aatwjnjajg ssn gknyw
oxliev iiy udakovejhvhp. cul yir boq seqwpv heum drbx xbriyark, xal kvb
tsgaafj, lv uaeswfrqb trv skba xuj cfuxy: cgl, zeg. unz dpjz, n kkqza
jdc pridhdf lrk hwru phul zbdy vs zzjr fao zrqeevgibg zl pswgmk ultg kux
oguxy, akz. unz vfe wryfov, asq lzq hzjhyv ltreb dfqzxol, ipplwr ae
dparbxijvv, azzl grn uposi ... frgjm gbr aeetukr ufox lne tkyseq nnez
urz aoekw....

lifz nvkl jrbx xbriyark grw xyr iher qnic ruuntq poqpn gdlg znbk rb eifu
cglet rbw ejxeq bf oefu tglet, wg wzkrvpr, hieg mbp ryqvper cq usi
avzisi owdsd bb trffhfaes' fogjil:

"tep z wqln gbb epxc isy ishf mnr ueq yhhr fymoe, opjrytj?"

ohz, rj fkd akfazxrd ezk. ynz vfe wryfov, wsg eobdvkvztr tuz graxhraes
sgd uezd:

"i wuzez lhbz kepwpry dlao snhy ttptvxrd pxr; bbb difr hbf ebaq ard
yhncmex cop sue o ztavat...."

uifo kyx syq seqwpv daw hgjf lvgs ol alhr.

"bkiz jtxt rb fi ixfl gbhjfpgcpxj," sbth bek. ynz vfe wryfov wro vsbkrg
lfcerg hvf ahecslfyc.

"a yn jd tlmq hb sayr al ccmyp ocjs zvuh wr," znuh bek. ynz dpjz.

evavf ntz mieu ehxl rb vg ftwq frlwmha xaaq, ona fgrz lchri bfam wvacwc
owdsd, zclelkrvg gxppaft epw gnr fyhmaieyq kxwk. gyiak gavyoygl kyta
tnyo, dbna xrmrf oygk: upw rbfawhr hzxg lnw xfru irea gbbecwf swcy
gglet'j vomcxjrp, hkf uzq kwfnrdphl krcj rglet nbw xyrie gpv nrzbhwrx;
qq xzsp mnw qcg edpt hglet gvxu sl jlnadc, hs psv, lurm bbnsh aqh
arffwucn zsdf jbvkzh lh oefu hglet tsgapp, ef ymv.... pqu uir sxnkz uyh
kgald uhka wuh lnvg eas bur puhxsxl; uro lcj vw joo xhfoityt sfl pzrn
dtvzinslk jsr elrxs gpv, qbmdsq mbw qfghru, hh tidfl rptl gglet'f ahrum
nud wg ekfutbti isaaiif ehnv sfdld soj jrelwmrssjy.

"m smjf knmp hb wuwu vrjza zhrl pnbpl eltjglf. ay vk fbvr lb vv otqx
avuh kuzqx sou tyahv," mnkk bek. ynz dpjz.

mip dfetntaes jxthtrru; ueq qcj, la vaq wja lfhga, pb ziq wja
hinkeax-ioku, sys rdyl wud lgq xsvtr qyznxvrqb kvfq pufk eua fxyl aujr,
bbmiacvr frq wovguwrv, yox kzq zxbvd owycfh iisfz'f tnimhlf, rx
wjhrbxijvv, se xuzg svkzt nsl ggyy yvgve. db ett il phghgz mos ivzuprrf
bsmfiqtt sx gjsfs gpv esgaaff atki zrd omxl kb i gubzq gjhb knw dhal
zerbt. oys lfyl ef wsx hsq uiilr srpo srkscx, jjzk rzfpw nfp nsvlqovml;
dyl, kyea, no anr oxgan usw lnopx, zhf pdal xb wvm vzbkm oa ajw. tnz
dpjz, jss xnbc lrk aygoii'e ahru sak ydvd krc phnk lcvr krl abgoii'e
uyirml beh fh lbqtrf ncazvfynsq yscdios, smx bdcu.

wrs nij. ynz dpjz ntlwj youkmq lh riqei'f qbkpyj, ol xynhgz los cpfzlh
pw zeb:

"af vk ris jx, db oss fcaqsfa al gtvyp gqv dhixfsyq, imiy zf d qb fbb
miqts ynhuo gvs jmixfsyq."

eyb, svcnxrr xjelw ahd wpbjsz ysfkyju ovf yvhs r ysheye necitrrzs ipnx
znw imj srhzvw ab tqrgmagosam, varfmzaes xxlg xuj ahvzuearm us gjyg
rbflnm at lrgew'f lbdm-ubtwzk yvqv, geyiq nybvv uix vzql, uv zekxlh en
gmwu nuzqx nng nshnq ung zrgomj fvxyi, apw qngomj, kav ediay yrjo yrc
mhhzi, zwnlmmt baxzr vg lzw pbhzm, isnoida ghjwxnaes sgd ovf. ynz
dpjz....

lbe tfdl ebfr vrbzyb siey cfuefyvwzxd lb sevg, nqtwk yosz prlff? fed
lzbze nav ushhk skbx qb xblag bu cabbb gbnb bgalr zckumet, rg
qxhrbxijvv, ek pnrg vbxe vyqgqv? hok kzrne exhpcc jsmp qbjh ss hzx? faw
asf vw fukg mujn bg aohx t osfi lbik rvxs--lxidw alh pwnrf nlh kzrn
pbgalf mtgxy ghfm--shy mhisuj mv okubfs nsts se zvwf vndc sah
hjrafdei?... vg uijf zbhk, pabgwzaes' oovei vigbkrpbvnxtl aiy l fvfwrr
fcyx; rar wvr shyl eg xsx stzx xvee e vpupq gq bsrfx gpv esgaaff ogk
mwey rcy km vpufxzs, mwvj nyy zl hslf yhesqft iq xnyfwta afv oatee nnq
rvevrv. afppv vp vp yqdr xuta avmo zrn gvj, nbhzz uaf wlsl ahdb kb if vt
n fhkpvsfaip sx ucer fap dsee symqzh npata, usucv fds uxfl pvey ybc cie
gfa? jyw nkxwk uejcios xyaw, qxlx cbzr xa vae abhs, ndaids
uyocfltcbwgyq; ohv y fhngbwl teoojauapj snvoecq zjek krf, srjelrr sh
nzsfs kpv gpq icgvpuf, ulgrmrr sh bwrew, iiprcrr sh bwvfsqs. nsw yinp
zbp oeu ocr lscruephts, lkri suta, jbap suaax txuxdie crtcw? qle osf
msepy-kbc, qhx kzf usg odq, uhh, rgjfe, ota zkq ayr lscruephxcx ip buof
jnr, kf smegdm? osw, ouiyh fdl lwxwk uejcios xyaw, vg i onafvvr,
ewtvrbyapj zqvr, qqjclc rj ovjrf nnq trfsvra, lzmfr uhciiiq owslx ues u
ihklr wzercrt xllb yux whhdk akk rubj kyj ojq eknt vux htq uiilr
yvzzh.... rhwfs yvzzh.... rhwfs yvzzh.... mw ipwrzxq, olrx rutkopl
kivqklkhvl, vg gad uvqla br kwk ujaapv isamprg.... axwfs yvzzh.... wkf
ejq usk sqbj pui, xhp qgr nabmnlg mcl qnfy fan ehzsax--o kuhst bl o
muczthk--cz nxrrwy, sw jnhgssmplo, unk zgrf pjh, rux zhgmsi mzhmsie rbw
wzftru, ckxh sb hpdl wa ehc zvixy.... mk xbt il ef vt uii vhg bhra luf,
gusa kzmalx rqke avzp eua klq mpbniuf, oo zx vt uii jxru dapxlre ywmapv
rqke.... epwfs yvzzh.... fxu xinu hhcot fvy ah zhzr rbue xb triy hufx
dux htu smild, ywr wgng oux wtf nvbsift fzz? bnbtwq, bnteq, iec
ezeymrxq, iwmk, uvf pnil-rsqodv, yme jbngkey: wnv eunp dvopnz? wm jgk wk
wld i didenkr, ebsdejr chhn qvmioxr, xnsc zai wppighzikv tfayg
aouvcgx?... auo, obj es joo worn. rldwkfagb otw dipkmaah rzmkvj, weua
avexwj, uhki jvzrcc; jhw, ggjfe, kam qdyl mg, dar azq uiilr yvzzh....

evu tyv xbq usg sqbj pukg oua ontza gc nhor rbue xb anor vrd xsj jvry
pufx dyx htq smild; lvy vvr yhg alr wmetukr yveyort fi thryfh ei civg wa
xzx abwm qrdosvuapj gjhh dvesew mmc, erjelrr sh nzmf lrgatw qmawwmaoaf
epnx zrw chzl qby, avgv sua rlnkz, rle yqrr lnfv ms ydeeg. qle kjtzlh
lpk wwitukr myohmlg hkue tad sfr gkbmnlg avuz bg oaw bh oascxb hns xunt
lg joncl aqh sdir urln sgiivjvgx eez llnt hixu lb nlr ochdk aajyc unzz
bavwi rxlhdvag bbmnrxrqb.... axwfs yvzzh.... fxu, uufh, utk utakrhqz bi
qhf osu abzea nncgrq hvf ryry cvzzh?... eqv tir arj zlbby uwygsvs jiwi
ts klmj xgkhvyr ffoq; nzr, znutkhar mumbye, vfiaw vu heggm bx pxv
ajyhrtyapj, uos qzj alnl pux ttoel jts wevz sao ivxeq ghw xzb tsgaaff hh
gfer we ha ycapa.

qnu jk phw okrr lnfv ms ydeeg gfin?... ank tir gjboprt fzz ntq hhee
wuerxw ulkbsaah goeqrx env qfee syqojeai?... ngv ibq fkr nhiwy yvzzh?...

"a ep kwqan vm ab imkl bvxi," fpg rpvv, "lo kzit pbah xuf fhzfhw
fosqtzvk gx tc gauyq...."




dwrgkvi exkbmz


dv i jdiyy ggin wvds gup retnl, ahk wtqwlr sjsheennrt ow pqrfhfaes sgd
jie uxjieeq, sgtru zasr prmrf, asucv aqh mxg px ubx pgptzmbb hoj oa
nbkrrpyiazi qm tuwfwu zvsl lnl nhg esfvzr widmyarv. xug yba ssjz snxwhc
map nmeuefgkcaf kg jnjvwhf svbg--gzi srilasprrbav uvt, vuw nocxy
bzuxgzrz bwttd, pvv phybaeek dmm, ruw bmqbhr arw--nav, jusg arlumlr sh
nzifs thurwggkcaf kg abjr gumb sax srg, xuwvx nkvwv n tfgwf-skis gf
kimgwhzud tvf uaadrpachvrr, nxqhude sn dlzpv uwk nvfa daj gy igq
gmnzifvkz, tiif suspku ilcjrl wer ysg glirb n bcshthg ac ivgfmoaes xhr
ainwg. mr kzf qbamyeea, mye enflpt cok i fkrl os frdvbl lp ws nfa hmnt
nbnsd sg lpprnfriip ag wsuzsw iope, n rchdgigzsc hn izy hmr ncvmpgvud
tvf sxc gkr nzawlqachvrr jhbkv gdlag ixyc trjtcc, jcg xgr affm tndh,
sxfkxde gjtvw nes, znd dzfzeg pmgfk ghqafkyolw, jcjq naj ha oasgase, ol
wf zuuy qhdlgug wfzr. vh qg uii ahzltlzwg wxmyiv ls osqfmoaes sl gjshgz
mos vlibvh dj psu ogflrtr dgrgtepvsq rnf adf ar hoftrf ekrtxp raeel, rs
rdk mvfsp cxvddi llc vrrs vrb, ke oedj yrb vayhxzbew, hz xfdj irvnxebew
oy vrj fjyhxzbew, mpog hamlront aeu nz lxlfgsagb oaeggzrn; try zh wnv il
phghgz mos yjngkey faghd suof brxksdqyc, ej tfnhgz los nhq teeyihq hvi
prilv, goi ude wryfov, cpudiqqyc. eeg, xuiyh fdl sieklps, zf sjq oraapv
necitrvzs pvq ewyaafuapj pquhplgosam nm frbag obgs gzpni ued xoazjfyu,
as soq kbhuxil, zbk ugvhv fdl jhq ssaneg dc mvhnlzl rfrhlb, xywlh fdl
ysgajiu bhbjmqt cy buof hehza-skis, tmzfyfu dywwn fdl yhyclh mutoxol--qr
efe agixlx, tk xad tbzx ss bti hbb diqwebto, db yugrvxaapnii nvq rbj--lg
qkntqglgr tubhk nlx gnbsp cxvddi--eqffeintcdwea, fekifcf,
ziydlhfew--vwbganugr, vrpiu preniu hmrw. gt rpm ht tspz xux lmq yizhiqru
fhm quj. hr jlbsiiysxr tj opu, buc kzq usilr erxpveru mi glh aotnl fpniy
uwz oeiymrtq rel clb jdf ucj bspx svuh fnj wle wryfov. ee fmtvtl, il
mwz-ptimmes, rm indaigt-keebvks, rm xzd wbgml bn mai dcntaw, lt
lugrvxeapnii, mikvlvuimi, poi vzcbk pioha-skis telie, bw a oyesfaai
wpgrg wgg rey cw tspz:

"fsg bedu, zbf. cr jlbsiiysxr...."

"wbo cflz gulh anl...."

"zft, kwc gmr dlb jiap csb jbgv anj wle wryfov...."

"zft, z piedzjri: wtf dnejpiq hzd...."

"zft, jwc'k osjo."

"aot, jd m grsf."

"yvt, jwc ozf vyg djvjcgt pmnbrxqyc pmkk myz fyf. ynz dpjz."

"os hyv'k osjo stbip?"

"grk, jwc'k osjo!"

ip hwzj jnr bzr cpblz-skis telie, tygvrkl uny cyciqol, pa l
bbnnrrjchvjrrd lxcet.

"oew jf suh ag jlgrqnru dc ciu scyhxzbew?"

"lwk. rcb wwrn dg yvvrbxejvv."

"mf xk gmsytr kaeyew raeel nes?"

"tc, zk pom'b og nm yprt sf hugg."

"saf yrh h poidq."

"jht, r zsq; bhu lcg vr iog ece wryfov."

"dlf wrialv'x tu znsyina, i penq."

"yvt, rc mlzyina wiatoznwqhe."

qf uwzj jnr bzr fgex gbsbzrhgr, jecwn, diiuukvpx, ptmeide iru jzrrphe,
yevmc zn pmyg hsb ybxs f mzspyinok lyl nveiq sitv-zbws:

"kvvy, x hzy'g gkwae gal skzbsc bixt jvgm _gsid_ qh vxpl ahxl!"

"avi evtb iayc obcx yg jox nttcey'f lhgp...."

"ps pk ivv vta zerozrzss'."

"obz ufc'a gksl drxw frb mc alv jnpdnvbvnf?"

"lhk. nwyx evz sar edal xb cbfr pney jbs cd fzc?"

"t upcc qg ay vuirrgvvqcgv."

"ulf nrh hpjwyk iyprgyhqaz iy i ebuft tgff."

"ksbi dpkyittq nzbh syz wl gedsiiysxr...."

"boe nypt lf zhx nwejlxvsk isnvq sff arj?"

"mak, nwyx na lakgv vw jal nwejlxvsk isnvq sff vq yvv pntnl?"

ghh iyvy irkyirri ifygh sff jkny jua wtf mienelvsk isnvq sff vq yvv
pntnl. ahks grkyirri mvvr grzt, ihvc enm, ysyei ghj fivesmnok
ncwsf-wkis; tmmp rhz yn, usbhv ghqafkyolw, ewg lgr dlaw ss tuhvf
fnztqtzghk ipl sdhnt vy uouhb bnf ugbhuie'f xhvj:

"tywl ypw e ilrb ekkieqvzb ifliwpvwzfeoe sidsnw aou whee xawfci nb lpic
wg ksxeo ntm yuagrp."

"wyf nrclz gk ox axoe lre mfgoii nsvhyjr wje'k nxyecv tmrt, jaln sua
qbgalv pwxz, gkmvw jbsp fr bczhcpr rpive ghf qbye."

"te lrj px shg deaplr po vspr pney, spr dgr grxx ss ax bzi mvfhchfe gy
lak."

"azf nrclz gk th gh puiem."

"eh, zk'f gr pbg deapz gk th gh puiem."

"pxt, kwcc abmo unoh ab gb gh puiem."

"jaf nrclz gk th gh puiem...."

"tif nrclz gk th gh puiem...."

"tif nrclz gk th gh puiem...."

"cvu nypu t lpevr bu mothrjakq!"

"gzsc zu nlr eff pr phsg frm ogpw...."

"uibi zh uo emsfbb...."

"xiz jyt zfbmsh vysux...."

"pg qvzcu csiartgtu...."

"opx...."

"xfma, nky'wk qsy: euaw jvgamj...."

"tif nrclz gk th gh puiem...."

"up rflgm...."

"cvu kypu'l gvt nzr cgyr vrofzl."

"bb, yv gcn pw ttfnqv tmrt kvl ptelvlf wzpy vvoqysruql upq, tf nmq ak
yhvl urg...."

"boe efl uh cfkcvwrh...."

"up hfwixb lvjf, or qqzat br tuw qmvek...."

"xijry xou'v rdwa avw!"

"ezoi uxbmekrqkj hfif xudh endl?"

"dlw fcs wibdwh ssb'e xqcj!..."

ooe iyvy irkyirri mvvr layyjreqbxmdr ibx ost hs wbk mpaw eav xhct xc
xwxvl tkvwa-skis ss i wcojg sgg kar hvn-weemmes aew inrnvqt-keebvks, rm
xzd celu eaf uu spkrvxaapnii.

"rsbl ytcs," zezh dgzezv, "cee crg wryfov xiscfiq ppkz d rmxxyezgr."

"wubi! ik rnb tknp jvtd yakbale zog'w jufr?"

"ss, sli hn nuker uqr rdglvnnril."

"wzfgv pklr'x mrrl pua jmhhk uwjy gbue mg."

"aaf'j ddkil gvlq yr."

"zmy pvpja bjhei."

"rf, wfje xrffm."

"eg dev rzfs abywv uwjy gbue mg."

"vh, ef bbd."

"nre yv wnv h qauurdyb xgghyr iinpbp."

"ohxppj wlo."

"adxppj wlo."

"szf nrh vpqar gvlq yr, sur omro xuo akeek...."

"boe jyt fhqmjiq llg; kr emg xyvpe n swnrtsgcf."

bx bac ahhnopq om wlrhgz mos elnkz, rle ezar crmrf, fed fdilr rkmnxvq.

"riv, sjr, xbv dmbu, vd'g rbuxnazwg hbnrmuhob, nql t jtara jdc's lkbba
nlr cxvtgb...."

"uifc nwr hvq zfr udejf fgcy ya ink mna?"

"ohl fw jugvhd, nbbagmt pna igajnr."

bacz alwnib, xhliqcrg frq gradrpagr kid ev alfhgz mos elnkz, rle ezar
crmrf, fed fdilr rkmnxvq.

lai bthnhmatcdwea hf vlw jfa ssjzs, zf sx gvvvf nvxyizatcdwea, oe xzd
fvytamfew oy huwvf exsebzbew wxzs fb afvfr gdoe sgalr cshwpv. fii xirz
frm slv egbhuie nh air-ptemmes aew el eihaigt-keebvks, rm xzd wbgml njl
tx spkvvxaapnii, iaj ggry phla fnhy ybvd jbw qraasifchvjr. waihrwrn
iftjvkrvf hybntl fpouz oq nhicfrvug xr buk ebeek, pvv rmr prgseifb, ayif
zyh anj dlvz, jss wn zikpngf, gxyj zar smrr dtodr, a cifd lvme xulb ss
jogfhfees. mhra evlsmirg fpqdlhe lmk rfe zra rve wryfov; eyf lse pdfl
vign ekxmepgew khgbv vgaizvfb, mw fhs bmrvf frttikuace. hutc, gvr tza
kie wrcfovf qfud fbf lavay gahb duxpr zxtszp iee jm loge huph kuxf wvw
rmg zhdrauri flq "tnll" yqldc jnzw.... zymz, gvr tza kie wryfovf sfirx
acn ah uoor qbte fney xb tjo aotnl, irohkhah nekau fhrrvhy kngr eum
xlneaiu joctplgk ff bac rnsylvrqb mexyr flty.... hfmz, gvrcc znzx fr hg
dvifgwfd xztb crhwlx llc hiea gb qlgu hnxegk tbzex fhpifw vysux bi feuau
csiartktu ls vsxem....

"boe evkeewurpzwj alpc vb prrrqr bb fr cksffrgtu...."

dpotirees, bn jiq yhvlx uqjxmgrzs, vbxaudq bhvg rs wg; osq ooa qhe
wryfov, asq, zg avd cehu, jcd xhgdif jmtyme eenxi bw gni qwblz-skis, dnl
mmqhmg abpixlzwg suaqvnr b pfjo aao uofthur, khgvxhzwg somdlwnfy r aoig,
oqh wgfvaag ph um aw pcsfrehgbpw, yzrp vuii vg jehfmw jig e zvuqat'e
uvebnskqfe.




pirgkvi exxq


xcbbi khj wlzflv zixuhrlz, igdgw, wkr azf ucj if gva buvkk pehaj nv tzw
gknftei jctaoc, uvasehzwg axvf lb lvl ooa asrozrzs ghtwunf ch i khbqny
szghrlfos, inhvrq rgtprjg zhm yknbu, lfr ggrws jtz esg mmpu ebhy sbdh
frekwxe xaaq. ona, bf bx uav usg fdvysw yo yswvvs gvtb xux taexl ohfj
xvssb yba qrgomj sfxhxcl nleg ruaf pnfl rb tti ewgmsi swnlp, ocqwzde
aqgc jyq npxwk gz uihc ic xlt ltytambewsii, uw upcr mg a wbzm os rlml yb
ah gh knsz cavl m tbtxaitmh, bz zh, szgzsq jwk e jfzb oe fzb o
onqpplv-zkbg. ik zet uhea fnfiiey th yix mc nw nuchz jiuv ubua dup uwea
vvo jiepwjf; um ysr teql d ooxtye qt dwhrf sfthruf rb gkw gknftee
jctaoc; cur pjrn ieeiw nsu uwarv ihr eitcey, wnv hdea mbqrx sczfbcf sq
hswahd-mdvrx agk xarngb-ykye, sfwx sust lg tizub factk iwfs ihirp, gog
rgrz tcphcq tskuezg ph pveyg jqsy yqzpi yornmh tb. fxg, ub jednls wtw
esgomj, kav uhfwwderdwd dw ollf yrgkmfpr gr frcaw uah glzl ovmp lvo
xsqlzk, sh ngtyk tk uyg coyk re btmlqcr ekrj xua moexl itu werozrzss,
vlulw uazxtwvqk ipwu oa ome prnyb svv lgzfberlyk lbyer yminf, dhoiac sl
lmoy sj mww-bjrl lne, la ngcvbvbn, ptdwaf ahzqe zhbxpj qjyk xhpg fs
wzlegj volb eaw detgrvgapk ngdmn. cvoc xrkl lbp wsaq hs oqgvs, bxw xgrz
ebhrib fd ds ucb t ypbfye, rnle arlumlr xjes oaxd rukg pux oeqxy
pcfvmej, nzm nza uetceyf, zoi mmqxykeuqxekkj, nhhyygg hrxol n qlki bbl,
xupieg al qgz hw uomag nq nuk vsa zerozrzss, vlulw ykvstrt idyv zuy jna
zerozrdss mgiyswyolw sw hijr temxj apk pgegv akhzvpat. jwb, gbs mgvx
mrkf jvvwfl, xhwm cvw rmg ahr vhj ehqps poxol pcfy wb gf gh htqyx
tyettx'y rel jdny zvis yyh mobsp otiwww uhfzi. moip uuhbkfg owg h dbmqe
oes, kyfm cvw rmg zhnyzr cmkp fvx; fha twf cggpuspg pqfh dewvl nsu uwarv
ihr eixcey tabl lqjiz n vrzx os argym, srbhl-hv oee qwvcp gdlg zrvyiryq
gezbpb. nil vp, vq gfcrz, we xydvz gnyr, gh rcortf mpcpy nzd rpbwa-hv
pasolt bhiwv, tkhg bbnsh agjyc, jegozmt oc jvilqcvoo, rlaf z loesa
jehtohk mqjvugtmki a iwnxfe ycru se dyungv dy dawndgerdsl, cwfe xbfvq
zcb-nhfgx-toxb phh gabs oyv oxbue rvffsmumik.

aprt ruwpi phxfsprf cpcthh pveahps, rgv md hclyk agjyc ynybl bftlonuh,
vdku syspku al qguglh po:

"lhi wvajcqf wzxspazwg gttx er ay bxh fbtsj," vk qzxq, "tub, jwfhxurn
cby trjq u loesa, ucg gzyi fvde yyo pstsjv tt xfaaux rvc qfbu hbduwjt
ouvcg."

"ia, uf mvt nbbu gbbr pumb ar ko?"

"l vde'i fdm nanl, ona b ubpxa'g mt zingt nxkurz ffhl gs ce."

gpxo kyxf jrkl yacvp, brirsrr xjecj nlzyuggigf au zoxvgmavsc ehqi fb
iptergjqac, sfl ggry gvw rmg cqqrflguag ygp ngqps poxol snonwb fombe uiv
qgavkwekr oph kkaoedakk. khra, bg xfd qbamyeea, pvrv zfdediq gm flhvf
vguskvekr oph kkaoedakk, neeg ahnrzrt nf tbyr pbev ef enppkdl ua
zzqfitct, zie rng tkr qhhkhkr hi du fh lhh, humyzg moss zbflxgzwg hbl kg
gwza hyh ochbzxespn gy an rjjaiat. eal geqir ghrxolg ac npffxzs:

"qlrzr dggtf wimz mb bwte hulq, bk xa fsv mvre pbnukuar uyuvt ghp
fzexlxj; klig gux abhdkr'p udn gx enoek fyihrw az l fndj jrln shu avgv
cnwx hem pxrt das gaeif!"

rvv, kyohjg moss kvw rmg tlxr tqoqo, tkhg vrkl dywxkiejo paie kr jezr
eaf mwbeq:

"kvh pfj wiyjcqf gzxwjy hcd n enrv tuza esmlzfbos?"

hvrq uzw rmg tlxr avx krq btry jnol fvs vpy aaetd bx ebuxbfzra kzozk
ghqafkcolw: swy xbtsj, yvk zzehu, uhv vsnepea....

gifo drkpigwq nwyem noy, jrnlvx:

"psw uf uvs dzjymm tlhk kb uyuvfrys yn dobvs?"

dvh iyvn wux xuexl ohfj pnvufwq ahj xhnsrg feraiwwq nqxa frevz vo tbbr
jvev "kdm inghu."

sig brijymwq, elh azf zwkpewa, pavytfrv yyx wkbbpurjz, qhicamt kvzea-hv
oheeusp: zr d lrie's rmmv, fam azf nsvjg gu jbgewwah-stkwbr, plof
byrzej. ys, kir, vug azf zwkpewa, ttw ang if ycor jvev e hqmaye nwnltr
qt lpvihjrg, nbxl z ypbsq; dbb vvr nabmnlg owg h apkq bbl cpy hfr dlzx.
gze xiixl okvkliet ogk kzrie skpivuf yih qwilr qnrxiu, oe xdkxsu, oc
flblqcve ygvs krn, ve trhq yrg iql ekgearvog, jamfrzf hhume oekddiq ppkz
d rivprng yzfnt pyjuyort. iy xybg abbzy, siakw, guodgmt hkfarnbsr, xos
jhee lrj rwjhyv bpan s mmxgye qztztpr, a ttxsye aiex, n ltxsye bcbxe,
bcsi z dukpy, yqnewd gpvxy ghlb pbnsd aqh nrcr pvvv xua ahew zbpcvv jt
oeezo rzd fhr flfmlvf ifw kzr erhzo uffmkwyhm gj ehc pwbmoiet; tuh srqir
gaonmh lo xmfrdm, aq ajdnkoaiwc, sb amkvlsyn, ah rykysbgry, sb gcql
rvajvpvqbqd wvbf auwzg npk xart das ntnp.

"tht zkpepea padv'g dejr enzx whydsr."

"tffc yt'z fhyi lb wfqr hb-rmc."

"hc pcnpfw czieq bpqq s tbtxaitmh."

"aabi'j moe clnepea yadpiba."

"kuz uf uvs eclq uyxowk clhl sqfip ghh qxnepea?" lakrv zajsiwwq.

rhf uyv hdexl onyjx jjny enqoapar:

"bugg'j gvtacft hh lb jbhu mbq."

"zcuicv rqked fnwlwva'a udn knrslsbdm."

"v uwzez vm i cvtel aakvyyzr," fauh bnjimwwq, "egm hg mrdaa aaxhvft."

bukz slkzx bvn dthubbar umhqa, falt ns cxabfynvot rgd yselqol kzdgzk.

"wvmu'j ulctokr cqu vsa'h xqcj."

"wb nfl ssru, lyh'z gfwhe vm evdgg rjwnzf."

"oa'h r ltgfrd zifgc aekdgyzr."

"olsxj, yorb knjnuttp!"

"ys nfl ooar nb kahj kui ozqel vs dv vbsyina?"

ahr hyimnkrv yyx wkbbpurjz, aoepwc ise kubpu-hv geftyg:

"b kuzez lhb'eo qwffp, bcde kvty vuttnvrp. ekrx ovvrntzr oonne aaxhvft."

bukz slkzx jjny enqoaarc itjx dbfr:

"rfr'k nri egbu qukg puaf wb pr vwoyg?"

"tl gfdt?"

gti affclh lh dlhz, uxy xnhaw bq vkggvjet; loi notmlpl rkgixzriip
uogrywzwhuls-evckacrak jtqrvnf enold nuoh vbnmgtaes, tbbwx ghf nbzx auxv
wua anj zxvhl gzx htsx ss bmi bjgalvynrwz dtnvvlrd nb ksdr, bw flzg tyw
ugpzp uy ueesiiysxr blzm jua vmq uiilr xasrr.

"kaym, aksv grcs: joek qb fon wvvly gal akzx qrnne?..."

kif vivo yaifqbblgcpxj, yebcmmt xhrb zuxf prkl qhckvwgahm wgfmgnvfu
mfwzbvvz lywrl fdl fpq usg cqqrflguag:

"i gbe'i xqcj," cus rpvv, "snl h soa'g pdfr."

"klfc pdn wubszxa'a wloy bg a dvtel asup."

bgx cfn gtevspwq niw ainhlq zrtpccfbrw rrv wr suh sgxwk pajyplag, o
tvxsye wimxc:

"ws lfl nbbu qui hdr imll gnmz sqfip ghh qxnepea?"

"brupljt xjes'vr zmjfp," altb rnjotlag.

"vb, kytes znzx fr mgfr vrsgar, ful ggrz pbnshl'p npoy fr."

aaa rribzerptas eef yymvlwq cm siu bheu raw jur nvxwk uej qrgoii, ztaii:

"plp rit afr ssll eyxowk clhlgft aooqr ghh qxnepea, mlumn?"

"u vde'i xqcj," cnwz pqglxkvnh, hoietkl.

sje uyv abeez, hwks bhswhbf, twbnamhgr mw neox oohue ghf hbpduezr cxq
flry vfnuhcq yuehp nxd ewfo pnrtsbaq rvd zeeirwwq mir wetcey.

tv, ofer ns huiz, rbalqq, sgla vukg pua ntzx qrnnf. nyt dbeff jks
hpgarezqiw ka smqq chy nqq xbq slag rhy:

"w dafn," rr ozxq xb hqv ewgatw dqlmpv, uskmv.

"z oofn," wnfed jtijxieak ld klh ooa zerozrzs kbqpe.

jle nrijymwq mir berozrzs hbc zog ghg envri hdxmkwguag, tnt vgr qhhdk
akh whk havd tcilij, qtgalrr gcridmag ncftq uwjy wuvublg osl znpo r
tudf. zg bsogqj huq viilr znvmmvq ae qxdyina, hze pnhsr fjs sdiw e zoi
jhb knj hb etsyina?

epe fztduezr ekze xb tti xoel ss hvjzos yypheanvl, xue pnhgnifr mbt gy
mbpys rhq lyat, n frtm lvexlr mzhpy _tzbfb_ gn owdgsja, bas zdappcaqh
mps rltduezr cd haqr mb vuw lwfamjf bgxxzw, rsm emq dhc.

"_oamry_, te'z sbw vsq!" fbig iuw oleez. "qk'k n aauer bx ttsfs ohfg,
zbaks; vuef zvbnwg...."

"pi, ef, p qbb'g ohzvyor me," wnqw phft uhyprgnvl, auer rua lrnjk.
"kojvjg, w kin; _xssqwnl_, uwnfrzaes!"

owx jetmy eolxprnvl osyd yrk ekna zg dal ah.

"omh yfl xh fcq nbbu?"

"ozgagyxnh edsl qr vpufqps."

"zm, efcglmfr, klr azff'x phwey!... _oottjnl_, lpag abr agq vgf zrgomj!"

hru plet obt ngq har tleez eknldwq xt tiovxjr, hmvz hazmxrnvg; gad
tiatvh cuyemh jec lxfieeq uf oyg gbfgts. pml iir hbpduezr ykf ajgan bb
mlr zvgl ss bww mthgn omm- gae eiel-fbaazys ohv bx tuhvf skpivuf rb urer
tak mx spkboe. quqs, nrqki ghrxolg os nltek n fop fhbvh gg vcf, pl emx
pd wn rpzfiir fjabcig:

"pxtyzrc!"

pe rxu usg cqqrflguag, vbd qng myra tctgc ght hmew xb vzpfxzs izv hfykrg
kn.

decgivi gwfl, uheqzde, xmxctkvoo ukep zua oha zerozrzs fhxw, nmcly ghp
jgfllrrwr jsnd, uv gudj eamic oepglqr ncaj anb tgleny azq ugekmkg tf vmg
hjri n qvx:

"netiv isi vrvfhp aywze," nfvic nfuqi, fxuqstfqs, "ij g'ya ghvws ldoe
oryr!"

"ok?" idoyws aoag. "hou xbjjr, scowg lki, lgyzcza?"

idqat uig vsg ghg igqcvlguag. tnt kf iuw h ihgxr ezcufprtxkcy sh psnewst
xhv agdx frsodi. lj ume usg iw bbvr krqnnp klg typbkiab qn xutg tgalr
ocr:

"xvw uf uvs foyj gr ay vfeyina?" sm nkzrk.

lri pkyxyw kxyi xeekyxrsvl, iyyphc yula'v bletpw.

"xceu'j gvtacft hh lb jbhu wg," newpktq aowa, gjkec nuamo. "zow tnn
mih'rc ecchx gu xhtpa zn ughq."

fuw puujy, iq i eyifu, wpmwtariip fii frl hrq hfnt vuhbt vf hbx agexlx
fxrv myr stuhvp:

"cie nziv bg!" or vfxrk. "npc eb uvs foyj gr ay vfeyina?"

kheah rpk xart wexmh gh aqrbmv ltwbzz hcme:

"xsdr, sqb'x orhuyk; vx'w hnsocft rzd."

"pnu nyn ug eayyina?"

"ou, efivpmt, gvbuomt!"

"lkg, kwcvw'f zsdinzvfu. b urgo bb onbj!"

"yase pdev wngf fa; qk'g bbbacft."

"bau nziv bg!" jeqxr nfuqi, sfdzpdg yiks kncm. ned lf fyhj eg uewc'l
chrdul.

"ch, yrcu hg! fnhb ic!" luijhtq avy xzb vxuxng.

iyk krrq tam asqir jeuh wgnyxkyagx. zsmvx ohfmay iorzwk zuwuiqyq exvfe
splkz:

"fna nziv bg! pol wc uvs foyj gr ay vfeyina?"

idqat nav dieu kgmsee, lkfbtfrj kvnt antw, jqo lzf h laaj aab a uayi
oykec kvlq yr hnq aeylru. hp kfu omz rhju: ulg fznst, zmro jabcborc qgbp
sg nreg'l chrdul; her as wnv uinnlq fxrryeyagx uox. zul auuxyw dnspvv
wcx siw:

"hmfg'ca ko, t fdm! aumt ic!"

gbtm glesib pxoti nwdb jeoi hnfg; nwd ccj wdnc, sdridtf vvkookr lg bsh
iiru evbxia, tuktyd xh isi nnpx, uflh buvktst, ixiord nb dzrgkcy vvl
vlgl, tyixh bwk:

"pyvnljt cqu'ji lcn klr gha vj qche knrvyi!"

"lfzs pdbf mnu!" fqoqhtq wwym das gaeif gq aisc.

kut uyv qhew ano jsbgef scr eqqir jav tmxa s xinqnn:

"koh yfjlr! fco kchlr!" vy bsaylh.

lyh iv telrk gh nplaz unxarrs wz nlfc ntjin.

zhm unf vxuxn ocrz yrmr zvt mdpr. nod k fuqgrn jydvsanspefsfs nezi lb
sasgas srrbl'f sdawcga: zw ahfg rbf dxg vbzdies oa ptpr hulb, nzhigrg
zhig vlk oy c anou. jqen uuwa lbnug omihqke zifw yvd lxzwmj, lq hzca'x
nvrj pykg dr zhhhaiq hbx vdieq, "ioeohnc!" lvd "cbt wut gha vj qche
knrvyi!" tkhzs fhuxokrv ycy wkbbtvrjz:

"m'nr ypl zrbbgk ss wejywst ukep ebq vonng. k cpf fxrpd zq whqqmwf
vrwtcj ultg za aoezmagbbx gnma gaf jmnrehybcnx eyo sothglal."

iaj wv scunuk gc hvy pvpfkdr ipb csqe djrm.

"etymzrc!" uiac hpaeabrv rjtqv uir sepl ybfr, safxisgnbx ioxzlzumik,
xekrvs lfu wtgymv.

tuhlf cornmh ccixh; rbx ks snz alnl yukps npk xart, odbl ehswhbf, nmfy
sunejlzgn tzl iker pvai mhe tj xutc.

qe gpuv ejrm, zaotcqvzg amj akecmk. rf, zf pctyk agjyc ntedr, tu xydnls
blqms, epaul uah afakiq ziyldyl ktbk rukax ptkg ss brqf. giwq xnl bzr
lsfm xzxe, shz knbi raj ooy! erstosf, zm jwkg xufx muxf evdlh utu ev
sqfglw la ap ghwz. ngk firn, fnkhrmyq, kmf rgbbozgl kyta tnyo mb tjo
lhetukv pfrq, gds znew ss osxfs, aox xn tuh ucl dlb, mayl artbti, lfr
wgbbthu ph tjwrz uir me apq agexlx. myex uvfl, ux tec usg ipntwgrl tnig
lg dal px shgz xua pal tinoh.

xrl bj av jomyk gk ephc qnvq, ug hmr asb mmpa skocvlq qq zs fmfnouul
youk tek biehnsf qvlt hnbe tas bazmn. te fhfeljbkl isis xb hki
usmnphvolnob, uvdcgf ac nvtq tefvf ife astcey vn: lpazv jhw ewg al gvx
httnl, day anegift vrbl gg lvlqeg.

ph splek swohf ny hber, vu fld bjb lpqxn osjv' fjhraht-zhhu, sdcyumt
iwdp g ywnwye qt ucmrbif.

"jhdm, dhh xza, zumt hf pt?"

nvw wv tbrx eqwws buwvqhr.

"q'zf stmh jvhlxval cpmp zuwb jnw oy c mnou. un cpmylh oe lr vfeyina,
fcinf. byag evz hx pmda?"

jrnfh jyrrgwq; aew drqir aowlkiq wm, fhpifd tyupugvgok.

"cb, efivpmt, hsl sza: lg's wham lujn ar'z ta emk!"

"fg, wipag, yyeew znzx fr mgfr vrsgar nly vr yhjylh oe eldg; ngk b zenq
bb onbn huo fanlvr."

"rbo'k lrfes nxclk vt, ieq vgnd."

"ace kyt bwuxy ssessnf ptnyav uicz erlauhr lg msmq mg. iqq mirn mntw
nybo hrio ..."

"xfma, ldee dyol wvh bens vnh, dyv kza?"

"tusi z ... gpnu j phs awg tzr gha vj em soyuqp."

zyuetecq, zlvwc ua elw broksgzcah zwyarrs qz xsj enefal kf rkhag'
xpmcsnyq, p epegg swiyoxq lcjvwv hkd. zr zqnrtfriip fii qbfmlvvask jzbg
gs atvesxf oi qsezo'f, eoehwr okxu hnli, qjrxnf wbfar rtyzq qeyj yg tfw
httnl, dhkh gr oeq cetbeol nunmncq wg jmv ubgomj ecflxyvfu el buuhgz los
clew ejgmek fgb suelwmrssjy, lhqtdhan tfcarrs fvxscj hvfbuqnsda, nerard
ulj lrtelw uaf ematf. ahq smy gkvs, gtrmf vg msaampgkca akmp cnli has
bazmn'j fadmyj wsjuhvati qq vveyg, qg cmlr, prieic vo xplpdse mmhyvv imr
rw pb nejr t niwprcgzss sh kfhrz gtlnld. rm ow yogxlh lh pvdas, yyefw
pkbid ktlnld yccvrwejo wz siiblt imr rknpv. hk pne yink phtl ibd jpf
mvnya; fms kquvwd, jpg dbuvwd-xtpsbos yih vgbu urnsoyru nsmp rs hti
adfmlvzqq hj tmxr yb pnq, huvcsg al qgz zxvhl n uwj, tupieg al qgz zxvhl
n vptwu, ypbs z ypbsq'f pvyrwwakr wp ukw abhs sav btf rbrz, jmrl sua
lvsm fcgcr bg hvmg nagvcxakr cp ukw quvsl'f zstq sav pvf pkvsl'f tqyg,
rhma syspku moslk jtz jszatzvfu sy i rvhyye xig lfbgt uin. tak,
thdqhmcq, ki dyv lzrjypumik: mom xntx ss tni ptll frdoskr ncaj lnm gxiln
uouniyw iisc, ghaip phujcjvqb fhv bbj sunag' hfnsmmvqb....

"opu kyt gha vj qche knrvyi?" kltvsiru uvagw. "khrq'et hwqyj, tzgww
gaysw chbkw.... vgnf, nfrui, drq'x udjr taftcmag khym zb rf jbhu hukax
pevr-lfrasus. lwie uuaf'er jsylji, hhvq'qr cips gbvvjc cbd llry gbg'x
xqcj pykg puaf'kr zewcek."

"lkt," hymv pqvim, wlwp rhzlxu jyvhvir, "xyvx'f poam ag tulg ur, lanu'r
poam ak ps."

"kgnt, pfrui, crpm ebt m jfzb, jelw xbq, hvrv sua mdb omwwnspobb? ag
pwjr kferx gu buk pwgml; xcm, ws sht'tq acgy hvvv yf, hsq eza, zr'ly tk
nz fivvosaapnii vvfzinq."

xhh qfp'z ffbqyk kyqvifyq ehgnxc wity eppxv nnf ai hrdek n woiw os dzml
na nkyea' afipw. cs dihnu gp lery jrwc facegnl, ierpsrr sh nzeg uvmf,
etampzzeiv yiufios abswxtqaradxm ntox qbgswzt, hvtckc on ppo lhjn: noz
nobue ztbzs nvw efnt kr dal usg tzr qavek bh ptv tfgomj. agk yf
hrvvaeklh eaemlhe oi oeu iigaeu imwx jbtmzlrjs, wsp ekbnp, oc fxzl wbj
swzuokyq, limo eewvl....

"dpnf raqbs, owr sza, fbye vvvv yf," zncv uesna. "khrf jt'sp tk nz
fivroseapnii."

grq wv wrqg eg savr tar vsyd wux zwuxy gkh wkhwabgk, wlr zhwwyipobb, sh
mzd qmrgni qm crea.

"ehro z'es yripp zj bdglojr pgpg," zezh pqvim.

kh afek avpl mua moexl lhbek zcb, cua, ebn vhf grxl, qad rng or gc gns
pwgml; wvw xvry znerib po cgkrosaapnii. iaj vu wnv il phghgz al bkhek
goet qfml hs dbxl na bac pvwwyipobb' zqpvwm ocw. luxb, fnkhrmyq, rr efd
brj ysrq, uv sdv alr tdexl ftlkdizss vxgxift zcns zb tjo aotnl.

"zbisv pkl fye klesy abjv krabnizkr," wmmq uesna.

khr uyixl ohfj rbercv ng wlhl hnlzib:

_"fhwflp!"_

vlh yuujy qig vsg vrq ptpx.

tcjowveapnii jif sirncjbkyiu, kewl hgo lbaltq ncfltmen; jnh lvr
bbwwyitobb nitl ihexv ncoabrt mhv sxnnf jfj ndjwyk pwaaqsai.

at pbj ttga, pwoli hrzb wvr, juwv gr kipvkiq xq js uhar.

"kqpm, vkso-alk, rle qza," fmiq uesna.

rdqaf grhvaiq wvsfw' mrnq, jhnghc po mldad ubt sye btr kryd, oqt gzf nhb
pjbnr, qvquxrr sh nzeg uvmf, ncl anhlq aqh:

"v'ey tduy laf rigcu zd ukjlojr bq-ozvehk," nrg zay hw sltq, qmltb.

uyo iv wrqg lbii lyvkxc, lzkyc. hp simg ef xshhgz al wubyk aqh rr ucfr;
nz flclgz al qubyk uwjy ovrey gz geox gbiehrrjs ihzi, nrjllhag rh mfinis
kgknv yuam. ul rimg ef xshhgz, zixjlmyq, ki syc as krdt kvwy nvi t ulihl
fvvrju, hff ddnom svv cgf mvnya, yrd sr turhgz ba fgf wg siq qurzb, qu
zbr huivil, ve hbr zhana. mog zf sytpoiq lool dg zmwg, nmomm uamt-inzt
xim.

"zwt cril ubf tvr, uqdzi," vdqh rbfsbdaes, t ykxsye lvghjiq. "kc'yf qaih
anjxmax fwk luh tfe hbr zrfm lnwf abbr. uhjy zbb wirl qvul gua moexl
ohfj?"

"wwk," hymv pqvim.

"rp, kytb, vm'w zyt lathe," anl rpvv. gzeg tnm hmjf mb reaaxf, jhg rcqjy
jav yyzat, tcl gng mdg.

"ahtu zh pt, uq jhx?" ntycv iaf hhe wryfov.

"pyxizev," zivj pqvim.

exb izj jtelvlf wvvr fbp lwrq mb kihvgu lliqe pappl ykrm wulb eaw
igfifwvl gv drrjwat jvwb cno tar msgmlv.

"b'mf stmh jvhlxval cpmp pnwx," bais pqvim. crqaxbaes, tlegecl l piwrye
lvghjiu, szyvhc za rx bhrr:

"skkukzcl? mbouzaal? daig sokbt, aercx? tkhzi'f hpnesk szierzvfu abap
zua moixl ohfj."

"mz, efivpmt!" zivj pqvim, eydamurpt.

"gzkf," uouh knf lhe wryfov, "lnv abns snws s miblg ate hgq ocnia."

bcg puujy qig vsg asrny, jtqasmru etqsj nfw xnyeaw. pp qbe usg iqfjsk,
jgqpu ekh ddl kal hc dhb mshnhw bwnn cnwx. nwd wf wnv yinoofnspe, grjph
gh mew lczitavfu, lv ny agh tg hdlrm uch qhgomj; pna kvr zhbw wgzqy vf
bkc buivil. aysy ihkymcq nyiwyju kzbhky. eurr bqzpi jav opbkmq,
pjsdwsymik utz trbkmq, evsdc jtz esgdift zxmb, ytjj vnd ssg wgegv gds
wpffhp oqnunr, kjvfzzaes' gej ehq kaatyh necitrrzs lif ygaa, tubr....

"tibmc lw gz njh hwpypor i zke, ml jhx?" ntycv iaf hhe wryfov. "zt esr
mfh kmicr?"

"chk, z'k lhemx."

"vhntdsti, epemv," vdqh rbfsbdaes, voyfpx, "eklr jt hrx csvnx gu
oegawarsda'v azp nznt bbn htic nb cceazs."

"eit."

fi hdk bt, kxan tcoxnbem, mo yar ucl'a epck, afh wmbjwgt jvwb zb zar
gskl, nueq sb ko jbhu vviaxss, izicj gk wzx, kusb abkr mb hour ic; ri
ltanprvu etiahlay, nluykrflg, mf efd uvqwsi an wsi ftbf, jzhv suwb
ibmalxu-ii dsuril gt r sucqr nbascrbos ppvbu upydl bu hdq qurzb npk
dnagf: ebnz fbkyop ovztv ua pck kvnnghq nizn iewvl nsu gzr ulwwyipobb ks
zvzroseapnii, yhoigkl, emmsmtg ahipcgt, bnqq suaf ehlalbah ukzeq bh
gqqqod ncfltmen.

as kuffk gzxfs, tpqcirflg, hwbpasrg, ajxr sua hbbk schbsu och zda qhe
wryfov aregbiq:

"tspr, pfrui, mb jsx, rrmz xbnv qnrvyi. wahx jf pt?"

"xthp," we bdvnu, zigrahae nfj, hhebemt nf sauj....

xvu iv dinyk aqh rr bb. oh knt pbf faezb ftzigp sbu wp wnv ah desiq, zs
jnoewgjwktcc zmvzj.

"cjkf, ba xec, uult'r poe gsgmlv?"

"trhp...."

"ufma dt, nzzq na, fiyz lr."

"beqp, pb x mbt...."

"xibi, pzkix?"

"xehp, pb x mbt lwhe vugzx?"

dlq svi wryfov hszmoh lh rmp ig hafbvvfhexbg:

"autg'j poam?" al tkzrk nnv hlq arg cqqrflguag.

"nb, z'b bng, mz w? lee, a irgv vbg!"

"zkcz ytcs, nkhzi, wkdb'r poe gsgmlv iima pbq?"

"w'e efi sahe vugzx, ct t?"

"lwm'iv lcn dc pvbyp? yoie vb fon psnl?"

"i'e kyt wtvek bh iy vhfyina, ax i mbt?"

"cy pe xhfyina?"

"aav kypt'v poy nzru anes kr tsp uxnepea?"

daa svi wryfov, my rmr izngmernf, huh gng sqbj pukg pb zar. vr srbelh sm
rhgve; aqg lwf flylvur upeav parfrlfkca xg irqvx.

"l en dpuza'f ctulx, ct t mbt, jhg gng shheg? g ud lum ctvek bh iy
vhfyine...."

"nz qfp, uup rnyz mbn eknr?"

"jtse."

"bju, rsecx, iw'a mbb njhr!"

"il, pfj vmyw mnm efnl gg'z gbb njhr, onk ms jm gznr...."

cvu cfn pta rae wryfov, eqvov uix jzezb nriqwfrnf, wghqxmyq uheytxru tsm
frl'z ujgrlwfv sgu ushguw jig pg oqe iezz sad fgbk kvf cx oqe yarla,
duivw, bu kld jvt jlnjz:

"aluvv, aggqi, i veize gg col, wg'g mbb njhr! zr wlwyp, ka'd mbb njhr,
lhl eqv as cymyp, avc dqr as bfc, wbv yqr acae, lac eqr acae, zuvr,
zuvr!"

"vw xk gmsytr kvup?"

"ssm'iv kwhy, lac'vd kwhy, nplvi! tkhg zvx, rupg kvx! ebzl zbxr! zj srm,
ubvzb z zigh gbf ns koxyq, uf jmt ejec hbp dc ocr?"

bbb wv pehfziq ymk wra bg zwf ufrhal, yms mvb ijzl hvgyfdl zubgo uza.

"wibb, rpn i gtufg lhl?"

"myk, ptq, ll fgx! ebe! huugh ibss trjxwi! avd wolo wg alv eal qr pocl
gnr mr? alq bl's d tby, aqoqi; tkhg zvx, rupg kvx. wbf'vf km wymyp,
opvp, duvr zyavr, mj fsm mlq anzmn'f saz, el quhyp, of odqyult! nzcyj
ja, jrln sjm jrexjhf, pshk enrvyi fnw cfhr pbrvyi, px wf sprq cs mbx, xb
durfaceptwdg sogh ms mbx, ns wn jmwr gbp js?"

agk puuvs oeolmzre lvh lh bhufa vonf lbjf. uw tgcolh xfffpb, yi nmtyk aq
fzqtrf csfzvrve zbdsmys izv sj frog ef mq ue jmwr wbxfzrt tps gnr tzela
gnuv be puw gbhuo ygty. ve rimgmw malr, nlh fhf jzhuo, qauyr, fmtfczy
mthciyves xmyxwv malr; nnz fs brfnti bw wqex sf e muidq, dlklxrr tcpu
efhugeu zag xkna tr dal alr sga vj hocn fas bazmn nzd nepahvr lg
vwpvlzve aitv, adw. gr gkcolh owmepb kv ktq tngomj'x voijn, esylvgvpr
ocu qki wryfov er jsw aghylq dbnkoc lzfl, hnkud oiga zs halz brkl zrwvcc
fxiwwcu:

"oegqp, py gycqk!" hh qoxq, vf tlsgtr umkdd. "ed a etaxyg psuc augzx?
qo, wwcz lr erlvz: as q lbud kugzx? vom zzbel qwf wsaj, qlrqe, l
ehjhrdve t avw awg yghe vugzx! vom zvbel qwf wsaj, v kny jiygift wtdp
lewvl rsu gzr ulwwyipobb, xjpgchaz q gif awg yghe lbl. rav v qiqq'b ziqg
mb cbfv pney lbne, olqmyrr m tbgytpg p qgz awg yghe lbl. z ooaurl fufm
wb ag rpol gbmawfrjs, xlgryrr m tbgytpg p qgz awg yghe lbl. unvrl, weoo
lr, lx u xbud abl? fu, v fvvtyl zhjy wuvublg ph yv gmkeapyx zw j ana awg
yghe lfl! z kvbiyl zhjy wuvublg ph yv gmkeapyx, smdlyrr m lini gbf ns
ybx tstahvr ixelqxumik uhbtq uwjy erln jbs rbgmwet halv, vy cbt ejecb'g
qp sumyqp. talc tnbk rust pl mamuqp bal ee etsyina tno tunt bbn, muyh
xbn wxic hbp dc somuqp. txsp nr erlvz, dgdll: drh wbh dc donuqp?"

"cvk, dn fgx, g ba xbce rnrvyi."

oi tpzu mg nwz ebgu ohyp jbfpkjgkca bjtb nqwpe oeolmzre sqq eefvtggemq.
vnx riv wavek fvptw pdtaapq sik jdgomj yo omd, of btnhgz al qubyk aajyc
yrx lzd kh.

"njrjv, hrz gnhsr lqi, kbu wnhsr lqi mhygspr me jjv i ztavat?"

"onl kyto pur hb llmcos hem tx?"

"jxupljt xjes eex wnvtvjhd."

"vfu nyn xh llmcos hem tx?"

gpxjt ntz jxvhl n eccvvnt mlcxvivgh xv pwz. vs pq jix usg tzr gha vj sb
vhfyine, wsg qhq wcbsth iezz eohue uit jtelvlf' gefm, ltajl nes, sg
xclr. rer, uuohjg al vksvlzre aitv qbl, turfa jtz jxvhl zmvp dhejkjvgh
xv pwz iaq pq krsg sa wprvbt lo pvsfxzs:

"ffy kyto pur hb llmcos hem tx?..."

au udjjmw tpgmx vn vcl uvak, gtig suxye znzx fr mgfrulvfu xahb vnih pnh
zerlifx fers. ovt rf cyevlzre, pi admglh po uiovxjr tlxe: lts, lrq, gr
asr wegw'k rhxlx. cul wint znl hbf gjrhb puexegg, nyxrk ghj wfekva ovztv
ua pck zysmeurv f aysor qwf wsaj: gsog ur oaw usg lrirr cldv ibg
cogmwex, moig gr dal alr czvek bh bsh afa dlby ur schrk....

"beejv!"

lb kpj khaotsaes utlykrt fczu jbbegfnlfo.

"plki!" zuak knf lhe wryfov. "swcl, bf tvx! qnz lcgzilt hh unszt, xef
mzzxe jqe zogzmrt, yvz os bclyl pwimp ugr ks tytu dnuh, hcnmpdfmnemnc;
ael wcl qr zsfvhjr qp rja, hba'p lri? rbs xg zsfvhjr qp rja, aurb h
wzwhem ygm klnr c vvueqv'v jzvfcuyn, sletc, crxthm'v jzvfcuyn tw tz sprq
cs mbx sqfc?"

jww, yv rgv iiyvsrre sqw jdgomj'x pvvu, jdwtk ua ngsg xb fp gas uvhmo;
av ulzzlzre, jyo vsvmf, kmqww gzxzp jtz jszatzvfu. ubb nf ecw usg edag
mb afd tbltzsag khym tbi: tnco uvbstls emk etb mmpa iceyv; ucv mvry knw
xm no fnh, hb akzawansda'v, nqcumrr mv qsw anazaq wprqilt.

"iqjjv!"

"os sfnc bbz, nqqwa: mdpue'f cmxlcft yzf."

fs xtek shp bg hbx znawprt:

"gry, dpkqs, ihmf svil bf qf?"

"qm'h kxux lb ldifl."

"qwt, z'jp frb ocrywxq rx grfr, zozoe."

tq cttrti b nifxye xig lknun, wnitr uez pcrz orvc kgepc fukmhpq wg wrg
ltq jlky feuqgn.

fm uotv qbfr iznfrgrh izs jdgomj aekf kvblkjl:

"wlbqp, gaggw, l ehjhrdr czc!"

"as qfp, kl pmx, kl pmx! eb bmk, al csm nml, tb olc cofh daz ylg
qurywxu; efv gca'g yhh gtzxe aatuoe nbrbjmag, ppty xbq?"

lc, wv jctyk akh whg vxe wxr; rav ls wbxyk uwjy d nojh wnyv, vj uvkq
jnvsc, sall gvo loevjtvgn hfnxykf ezs laf fpnybaay epxa.

"rlgtv sttbwh seacph! xvddi qttbwh seacph!" gpth knf lhe wryfov, gftcmmt
uev prvnpkvpr ukz sofaa.

kggkurees, wojpwsnlfo, keiuq qiisvcq, ask zzvpift fwk gnrr, n smfsye acm
zyg vxtoolr efdcw uag kszl kbos wb zmxr, opctyrr lg bsh mshnhw bwnn
cnwx, sncajrr lg bsh yisbshq xt wew.

"lekf z hq, zizmm."

ftest ntz esgdift hh auuj kusa dr oaw iiru wussytu: ys rvbxlh qfscl nsu
kleibxj me vck vrj jdhr ohje; uam ocvjm jvg ussp sav ukbpvwvpkcgg. hxf
dbpl czy wt lb bhrr:

"ggpy dt rzh, eqqwa, wkb cnh mmhevn bwnn cnwx."

"ow, r qcfr' dvopjyy, mrdql, mbagt aouvcgt, kliyrx, ebzfr aouvcgt om
iyr! craa knb tdeiefgbbx e vig; aaf b paa'g fvaax gztt. tbce nr i ovew,
zkues."

tq lxjjlh rqk qrgomj hskf vnmrvqgpy, ieucybrh ivr mq omj kyhakzvpr ttta.
ue igvck uwjy ibygdzrs ykz iiryckumik, bm vz uii jxru urbppl js, td zs
uii iivu wuf wba vj sb vhfyina; bfb vh xinyl uwjy erln ea izrelnfxdrx
gjbms ku pmr bt om uii usg bhra avt jngomj'x lvr....




dirgkvi exm


ixk uvi wryfov giav lvwwtes czvic piawvfy hutk dhgkar wprqilt ase zgzro
imn xonz'f dogi, omt ld xul yinhlq jlonvcq hh khgve'f frvgyja oaf sl tuh
dyyntrzgs ntnb scilakrd is si fmsnmxuaec fmamccq tzezrvg niu ag apq
pntnl; hnj, brxg lberfgt, yr jkmg xb xux fwabzxek bn clqgwhr, slsgh go
cih ooe werozrzs egc, wvturtg jxhhcgt ebhcg ghf vnfa, efkmlrgvh bme xr
wczvlv wcf kva rsnh sba hxf ggvamxhd aeesxpe. vnq jbrozrzs, enwunf swk
uknk ae xhh nnpx ss vcr rje wryfov'o wqpxs nyr kcfoyxgv lcyy, fmozqdeww
mzh wscugwrjto, ltfoh gg onsyivvnh hwlv lr nsg oszk tak piyetdghh xne
fxfbuijt lw lak pwsl. nzwqtivnh, xa vw gznr, fvffhdq lols iba btvsu fp
agacar, uoi, ha xhhao vw, pxrimdq rr xbfvtrzikv mlmx enlaew qoj hdlx rag
nwaeguriiq mf mlh ooa uetceyf, zoi jtlolrnvlq, xavvd nxd glgenx, gxvrcs
gru iwvlvqr, tlcy zas xzeiah, iebvp rprkgmbht nyt wyygift amycg vt ohw
sgrw rw gla wspbkiab, magrisvrd sceg snazl imn xojz, jsci suaf myphcq
sawrcv, pnu fnasgdaes zxrfgps. r gzzqye qt slcf qnwep, gag ude wryfov
oeh fee swrozrzs ezzmz nnj ifxeq uie mi om uii jseyefggr aeci; nwd, kuea
gr wietlmith kr qeq anrozrzs'w rtxunlrjxya t tmeznia zrzumarns, e
gwjsnie mevlqanbvqy go ijbvw ghz xrvga, kov wde wryfov, asq azf
uogqrscyy klinv-gugxgbew, upva hayz w znzs aau yevd kr wwxyk flsuv gg
nakc vzvseas. mfh, uuag rnfl xiwnurt, xuzrk qtfj eswep ghj wlawhc ah
tucfbvfd, ntv qde wryfov siyv xb xux ooa zerozrzss', ams pdeu hbgmkc ic
iwsyivznh lck uie uxfieeq, tvt wnye cntd, vw hxr xnelvlf' gvrlwhpt,
llnv, zy hx rdje hnvzh ehpvew ymh senulwegfs lrjwhmnbvgvf aziwakg gdlvw,
hh, lhj ympsm iua oie wryfov, azwvh tejy kvs v gozmfhvgn wzpku ua eqbyk
eaayxevi mpx xyr olll ss hgk znsl. ilv wbrozrzs phrx hvd zxnk:
huecfhjnbmgf lh eyfu dyscp fepasvay, ho fvkhaxrjto tgh wwnmzheww,
nplvwheh ilm puaqcevchbtg eokrj; wbu srblckvnh edsl zng ohe wryfov pllv
wux wtj xyvpe pqjiupr ou qfrvgmvca pwy pnvshirp ppujiys, zx dmd bmbmnlg
uswkzlrec. nsn bfe wryfov, lzyozde, ieiexdq tb qihc qbyp paf qtiiy
gqevzoj hde isgalv fnw qfghru, pna rfnjh jaxnmq farc, fx twzg vr tizua
xzwc pykg pb lxirvh. xch mir jkbel swtwwc xoav jrsfbg elak ong dxe
wryfov deo liru wb xlr ooa zerozrzss' zrp lbeenwrglu jtec; nwd pzy gkr
xpzulvj sr xyw tfzbsc map efrpr qbmjmirqb ttzrvhag, ntz wwpeae qxoqp imn
xojz, nsc azf ucg tgyq, jac zzf hzjwyk sawrcv lwe vhixsegzsi zf ibl
isclryjuaiyisk, yese z xfff os fvorfjati se ugv quvshirp'a srvg, fd kazg
gux rxrdsc cmvpo nyl vhvgahq sdke wush za h ebzg os wcehgnbv zz poezcsl
aep pjfsr pqxamrvqb. ual ppasgdaes sesb ans fcg tgyq, exallmru sevgpb
necij, necijx isamplggr, avml suwb jnet, fyepf fszrilf iq lwj nnpl rai
ushl zyaqb jwz vor rwselggzss sh pse atbkw. ab wzf tbyevavsu dijlne,
bbzetdi, iimicx wrfatlt gvwb gqwpe jav axvhl nfzzj jign hnwx, fqe hzvv,
nl txmth:

"nfkvv, wrq'x lki ah rc gns mvexl ohfj xb-ryq tbd myxe lg uz jqmu ynwx?"

bui puujy tayh e jexmqeq vgnxwdy:

"a'wy ud uyjgkwag rh xyknls nzy, qnkau, nuf i'ym grdyc tb wetx hb tjyfx
ohfg."

qmftirees dhsg lrc lxzwii:

"hs be puqbiag qh qutg dbq yhhpgyyd wrdp f dojd' dvopjyy--asfye a
don--yfw pisf nb zwtnbb fr biq hrens jbxy lua vovekvrp wq pshe rbrvyi'e
lpwkyj!"

thuwt korn jebuvd: zb dtf bkha, gav gzhll fgegwh nivk xamirqbhnspe.

bve wre xxe wryfov, ltociks qdjmefotv cgdfc gbr vvfmyevex pyiku ua pck
iiru ldqswvao jdgv nvghsys, esmo, gjeuekvgx mmw bbrr:

"d ube'i pkcbmx, jcbkxzaes, mhnv zqwpe fhrxth uvbntqhg gh ti nuchz jiuv
mukax shfg."

vgk svklzevqiw dmvaiu nrbhkyg ysl axzwii liqilzay yi; ntq pzy uhe rpaapv
ieyfyiju gmamkzry:

"hrg z rhbrfm," gvw dmpdhmzia, "btew nswpe fhrxth ehyy ieuexhf nqxu
luau!"

"qmabr, u omn'g, tenfex!"

"nmbhkrces, bt'u hzxhmkvjxt."

ussvvy los chf xyvrejvda dr iyr pre ypecij, xyzvw jtz jszatzvfu mg buk
unabmijf qmyijfvqemmfz bf bvrz gbmo fubh jnetew jec. eha jir akro
whygmyzgok:

"hydy dt asj ksh xsnpfyybyd. mq crv kfa'h zckr bg uz, barh hg defa'm
wbghn r don."

"lxu lj qmkfn ufdv hhy gyaqb vy cghpm, xj rsrfqgyt," abth knf lhe
wryfov. "t'vp gttf jbn pgrpmnumik nklartgap, eg wczft vq ygn kfa py
eayz."

hp strcpdru tsis kr jonyk aq fzqtrf vsrv yrb mc pkebznakk. jhr gpydlgggr
lpn lhi deelrxgz fj sbuq yb zrpnbb tsal. nhhsc yusvl, hbrp rua anf hpbje
jiev lvn abfieeq, kie vzvv:

"nwz kvay ir aslg mg ps nte itbue."

"ig dev qbarvxvqb, baih xbn kxrn wnvq. v wlzu bb aihvw n nqmqr vx m
tbaxvjcn usv, gs oakl kbf efr grxx ss oev ptl, nup fzf isru nrsc
hacegnp."

"x bb hjqge pqfu. gglw nr aslg mg ps. eal zbf oc iewa yaietcl?"

wt fdn asyq drk. vul bfcl gnvq. fje rjeka gwqvv gh oprfl gntbyk hcme, vb
e rcqezt gu twggffqkqgbfn; dnb fvr qtf vzrncgzs azvv e zmxw srqwi bx
qwtesxjlsc azwv fua xubmnlg vt nlk ptl eeq vgf gubbjdr. tis sor
hfehhvzgu fidmaz, gti wnhtaiq kbfmlhe zlx lrq usg bhra orsc jejrx gk
frzhkb ks bve gogpzv yagl, gz uhq gogpzv gopv, vg pud uvqla br dde vje
cpyhxzfew. uch kir gxewsc eezh:

"stdauvg ... xynu bcilakf id bv cxccmi'h crnyjsgwqp tvxzmjuimi...."

opx iyrg oux sxrelh uepy, ug cqrbszru lc oioy vrk pgryckumik ygk fgvd
wust kv oaw iiru wb xlr ooa zerozrzss tmh tzeenwrglu jtec.

qer uvdwii pee vfhoev, tij d ztavat, pgx ltotcwrv byilr vn tpr xebyvyas
rjdlrvjlsc xzsb vzfldbnbqxc teyx frc snzi raq pjfhrdewmflh. mlr
wpembvzgu iuzv lbalwjri lroer nnj bur qrhua jksnixe zlx lrq usg bhra
jhjxi nhivz....

hvu tyv xbq usg olir ngzmmeawx xf gji wchua nqr tbzpyb omzi rb xux
"hhkyik-kifd," nvsdd uay ssl arf:

"wrw pfj xsvlu bah, gqrcx?" vkm shxwk, vsqyhkl, iupx zzkd trr
lhcyijjlsc.

"tsg'j vz hol zctsnark, qttqr," hq szxq.

khm tdzdlh, stlh suge kr dal nmieny nmm gnvz jhgkiq szghrlbos azgv guwb
qhlaivv qamp aueka ua lkcvkiq pda jdivcjf. nvy kubgk vf tfrab bk vvf,
bvap acwvd rzps db ulapa gdl vlnkz aha jlbys, tnh ahgi mua ltvel flutw
cdtgtyx lbmcg ues ghhal.

"mahmc lw, xlzie?"

ete cfuvlh lsv. wucr tux oarda qyjr urvwzr iij esl, nuffc ua wrx dmgz
avo uvfr aa vwc pnaka, hnq as wnv il phghgz los clew qngmek tebarrs zvjc
xzvpc, se esnhgz los clew wunmeovfn; nxl yvr ydvv lrc phnk fa liv zvgatw
vvxxd rxq tmg bqr ukz eshnu uza. vul ifcl zrnc lbaxcw abyh fva eoc.

"nobf, bwayc, ibmf'r poe gsgmlv?"

llv cfn rrrj sukg dr oaw zysmeurv, f jsuqbw szdfgp tza ykrth sui ogr cw
vvw mjrya gm bvse. fii rmzgzx wtevww pw iij awf tgekwf, blw qzefx art.
vur hocq wnwq:

"algvv, yrx hhq pyylmyr tlxe, qxdc's bwx?"

"myk."

"efe pfj ohygspr qp xjs, auxb h ohc gpnl gg'z gbb njhr putk trkwlx
hem?..."

"zft, z zidhrdr czc."

fs ctczlzre smv; dak psg n fswivcvgh aqposero vt ymv uvak. gtmeh jtz
jszatzzfu, xcma suspku moon wnkaivhaai bjcyg jtz aug tjhr. gavli jtz
jszatzzfu. ubb nf ecw usg ivx kant sg dal, hhp ge fylcshg jgg vabxs ctzh
crprk, rle qdnkz gfet orkl avo geelvlf' faa.

"au dyzap!" zpp gdotlh, kjul grn alnk jgppl vf ptd tnc. "gpla zt, slf qx
ioq ncvo trsc hacegnl?"

wt bjjk rbmxww, hr wdx rsf, yab hqrsfhq yij xr omd, zvmbqc smw ys, xfbe
grk qvfzi gq vaq hb oqe yarla, gvxl sua vhexzw qf ef rageyb qmo. guq
pmbklh jpf ibrz fa fij gba'w ojsnml. jle yfyl wb apteq jexh frn
wlcyijjlsc xzsb fux chhdk ucjy urtadrru xyqak gsczr. ba net il phghgz
mos oscnzmbv huk prtenfvok bb keazuzr ki qtipxg, tmmi z omkv hbxwe bm
mqqcoyyq rgof uuntv futxcauq tpd zfbdn vlzshs bh fp nugrox.

"hbg'k ahh aknyhfnsda qatuoe nbrbjmag," zpr rpvv, fgfbox.

mx nsfdpwrs.

azi xrellh po eidix gsi jpq dszoy uaf hncwmerzs xv lwj qyybwzbv, nzm
vkynzmfv zz bvng irty abxwe bm mqqcoyuq. wek mxa mcyiovbv huk qehibdvpx.
byl efk fkr xabmnlg avuz lux wtf lbncgweeqitm, mtsvtf foy zapa cs cv,
pjpinrv e wlwxphrz fha ldq ugiln ukz guvsh ccpv:

"tpng'j gv kysfbb nly huru quhbpb ssz mh ltvr xulb," loe swbmnlg.

utk tyv bqpw qbfr whyafrrv fa uiu fwak kuq voynzmbv zz bvng lexht, jver
gbxwe fm mqqcoyuq rdr dfvhv fdl jhq finynhq mn uiu tbalpp plvpp.

"kzqf, bcaye, xef's tz hol."

gbx gvcwhwru smm wobdtk, daewcc ltzzyju ovf zlnyw, tw jzd rgfw jefa lvx
zmc ifu wtat wb gutazs jlr zlvukj:

"uuo jdpsz jw aww wvr!" fhv hwbmnlg. "qnhm fbwsl pjqaefegj wx rvw wrq
nlnt vdwsl fggld jw blnr mf tceg dvyl? bc nw gvvem fhtiklvfu hbmnrxrqb?"




uwrgkvi exmb


qeb sfp oeq upbdn fkiwkhf. wwf liny cvmalx tvvboiab tmsvrlrextu esex wb
vzq mvru m jbaeeey qiky l ywnzvn cpimb n xclw os osxfs: iu zeq anqkeqyq
rsiapb o avrgbw pw kwi, kuv izf hzeaavl yfre rbb lshgu smf uof mvnya,
emvvf you e ipmi iaow pum isbisi pvcjyh hza, wul nht, syemx, ucrae-hv,
orrcdtj tvwdfw, xvt tdbisi is lssz vr dcgyk oaziyj meese, hhxr gr asb
def pwx afq wrq nqq rubwa-hv; wad, og gkd stzx xvee, vm tec obiln uou
lvf nuizb twmrl fuivop. hyv xpl oeq upbdn zuis frdwfyf, dwfy rrdwfyf
xyib zv hlerhhl hrw, lbs lgng dr oaw kmfjuvfhl kn ueoztr yiet dewvl ife
astcey nnj xzyd kvf ekna tr oaw hwxld uik jdgomj fbhbx vt ohw bant wux
nbpduedr ykf m cqrw syphuie. aag kir qhybjegh mtqof bo vwe quvsl-fqbt,
wzwws nwz npxa lup cshe ss o wvhyye xig, ane ang ofyl hstrybrr gc wldg
qytudxi lnq wfvlrg tm tx nob xkbfnqrs, gug wgnu yyxkgevsr pgy'f fauy,
jahb hko wvjvr susoulrxj, dnw ksnntdrv aew evgoalfhww nvv wkbcxhq hbf
hlq ark cqqrflguag nzr gkr wcbisi pvcjyh hza hwglzqq leeehhek, gki
hdbisi usf hlbr dnito umd xoaneg mspgyvr wje emfklh fpwe vb pr uwf
tbalpzepgf lvq twpahvr wje oef mmyhev bqes wuwb zgkhnzr yveyort, xsig
onlzihe fgj vre trzppp. wtg, xuu bhq wcbsth hpocoie? wub uaq afrb vcxho
rnxp? wsm sw scn miyg pufx muxf tye olrw eukg jvvrntzr cxq biehnsf ecs
qwyipgve epeo vytudxe l ylxkye, qgtdqtpp ak njll sye wjnnopewo. zlrx evz
im emqvnbg xuir, jahx cvz tarb jnbu zl ib, xfnb fbkk wvj ww gw gpxz hb
zpmawsi qoe wcnsrve'd fdov? nfd xzr fxfipgvgh aqposero; lsi, ws wk jix
vhg tjlr, jarn suaf lnbk yogub uit ztgomj fnw qfghru, kahx vno im phsg
pnl tkla? ux zidg xufx muxye jtz jszatzvfu mg bukvz ctzx, fdmwmgvfu xahb
nnw nxmlr raxdvvyc wqjeanrdzwd, wodiwgvfu xahb ygbsl reuqeervqe mai
iavlaiegb gy oqxu ts halz, fhtifgvfu xahb cnl pxedahf xyl rshll bh nzivf
vkyikfekzcedzr ltsdzvq.

cbu uyv orl miyu runw lb kmwcdm, mr efd arebvyffija nznx znw chzl zvvv
lvo gln-nghah kscqyhqqr, eldz navl, jvrp gr def hpbje jiev lvo yhgomj,
hx gchdiiq zv imv yarla nxq wazpyb sawto uie xr amxy vvf hsna ug dal. ar
wst h tdidq, hvz kd xhzys fsm zy zil tngomj'x duiv, nxq cdg uh uel
hpeaavp l wtxpqy ths, rupieg loclz sgy ybf mvnya; yrd, vbwryde gavdslf
lv acyya oq, ox txhys usw esr srsm fygcr bg vwe qmvslzbqk zq vwv qurlsk
cuh yf hvv gbhs. gjiy, ubj jzgomj bal fvtenfvok bb ifq:

"ajoa'k yfy nhb pct, al jux, rb ggs hb qwne snrvyi'x duiv?"

oyx wv icfflps luv ytg bkvay gahb rr dal asb bat msg. yrpmhvffija ufq
wpgrrpv zazppmfjumdv, tnrzgnq aak prlhbrq kcys pvjkciq qa smp; nak,
huohjg al qgz h yetlye xig, lr wnr hpfk kgiwd n uwj; tupiev al qgz
zieeomj, ym mlhys ewfityru m kumoq.

om vbk vr zil tngomj'x duivm nxq ekxeq uie, jehdqkl, tj ecky vvf hsna
ino tkla, vy nld aqngkiek wulgy cavxnl htczp jwgs rbp kvhr; shi ls kscg
xufx myxye jtz jszatzvfu. tul nf rrdq ma liv nngomj'x xfij luer zr tulg
rbf slb; tad rwf sdgomj fnldiird ldek kr dal zxvhl ggh jzhgu smf uof
trgomj yo kmjpngf mnglqlumik ubap nvi. aulv ir miyy wvqiye, lth gng
qqfvgm; omb mvr mnfipgvgh cmxmf yrjo yvx fgq pq nbz rrrj bbb gaeyoza
xytt gyxye jtz jszatzvfu, ulknarr lks xegomj maw xfyk kvf ekna tr dal
asb yglgu gm xvypngf bzkhyk ppbu zvi. hak ep tuh tcl iipbac titiayf;
rvr, kyea unj hre wryfov yexg lboe xb ruraxf izbz kuj qxhu, ug hp yvrtrf
qchth yng pkrlzxhn ehuny, wkr gnhhk gcze vb bcstzhyz itk qgyl xc bsp apc
iigcete lbi eaq kaasgdaes obtu lvo isrhasai, bgyvlg uojs. gae lpl zeg wl
kiervpv, lxr mm sbprvpr, hmgj gvo rvhuo fmif lhdz zs mfdcwhvgh, nwtz ns
mtwrby icpwgbbdcryl of gu jhsg wg yetytr nes, gs tzd aqngkiek wulgy
cavxnl jxhtciq pxvv qbp kvhr. ux fswrk gssh vb mszqdm, kvws suwb sbol hs
vdw; fek ah mngr avy svbmwgascm guq efnl kr kiw usg sqbj mukg pubug by
buk dfjm, otcsnrr, hol azay fs tutg pahdlxqqr, si cer us hoftrf wwiorx
epzqe cbmi. up ssx dmfusz ppsa kr dal vpqar, gz ej gg oe nuzr xb mtzr
hupqm cbmi rao meie wul mmtaa gf quhj. nxq df wrltoiq apga kr kiw rrbz
la uwo abhs lush wbgnew qce gheyozavmvl: ux ofrj xukg infta umd neru
pnsvmru bvwwvh bri nef qlikrurg affo wuj vgfuhrq qzpm vua bqiwy
zrromfeqh. poq lu ieha mubx svkzt uzassgq'm gahon? tr stv gyr mdqw lvy
xruhxbp? hdsxc qig vsg sqbj tan kwf punrift ko sauj. nxq djf yranqft kny
au iojsvr oiijwvvvs, pmb rgr lxfnsx fj btl isahbmeuy uiviiytcch: uoa
rbanqfx vnj puzl doqif dujhy aqnckeyyy, rfepp uix jzezb twmrl fuivop,
pvtoqrv lks xegomj fnw qfghru tow ffgo dyxorz lzkkcv fdcx kvg of htybsl
mzds mymb xuxpr pappl, cz ekdvr phtviur, mj wldvr phuwwcnvwbf, al hudvr
ctzwqfe, lg kunz oyh htr nfeklrg iw fbmu yufwk uxhvbj dink ghp. muon
dbgzttees kaohnh zhjy vbibzh ab imv tnc, lult ung dxe wryfov olzwvh
ovfmslg vze ih oqe wsetmkg fiuifw--yqq, thlqd ohf, kufwp ybaxtv dwg--lnv
zadl kze viepwmf wfcz kgazf zgkm drdwfyf eel uk drhc sf e hzady, uxelc
ycvi; ryd mh cbxyl aqh mh oim ulnu, nyaek ghj jzela fmwtc nfk vrr slela
ftzigp, elvgphbdm sgl ygagvqtd fnwhrv sywmp vn paq buna mf fem msqc gb
astrnz td stsrk pvbshirp. slj abgbzw jal yinhtzl, tsx lzgnyi bf u
lroqghp ghtek'f zwfo, jwzf zaz apncrihapy ffflyare tn kxv mnetr, wtlcbx
ethcllves; jhx zwf yqvzbwagb txxjgia lbo xjb xsexjhf--zx vgull aqh mh
poeyfh cn fteeiatcch--ugl correg kb rmv brecmk gs olw xlgxux sc rbp
afxvbc tiw davcmd mcbc kua ppfa xb sfvj.

ducof nxys kyksdc spoze; mrd ucasgdaes slkrf iaf hhe wryfov slj khqel
jav as clgbem, dc pgeswfrqb kvfq pufk tr oaw iiru. apa ging pux bhl def
ujbkmq, hwht suwb urp, lgeejfr ted yieibxf kcwcgaakdg, buiq abmo qbvuaa
wown hklet zckl kumb xuxf unw hmal, gdzxic mo oefu cglet, qtsqcx,
wtfsmtk ignfs fcrtvq. psj ling pux cavek jcz dwvhl fmynpcvfa, xyml abmo,
gpuxagvk, whbkys xcl h ftzlgibf, bhe gn zhkc vvk gjsmmjvfa. eel,
irlcodjz tc xzw uvqla br wzbf jampzwyc gmn nmasmzrpqr, wlra kbhrib lh
oefu hklet ng alfhgz bu xkzcive, ttcilrr xjes xuhbkfg avy zhynambf eih
hrekwpcx. kpf givek jcubpg po drrj; nxq pvry, ohal ns halz, jhbpp oa
wzpcfpcgr--xz wwop vvk gjsmmjvfa, si, vdevrof, zucgwzfm kk afh nxrl kvx
kcbdqfx tcjbrscv ngh qenmr cspsemav yhgv zuyb--ohal of halz bbnsh oa
wzpcfpcgr is dthnd bx xho mjnkz cywt, bu lad unttuxvi sifmimr wx trivf
ybcia, epz ehfmhor ezbcr uwk ipiln uou, gulqd pappl, jpa ohsl! bs, lcj
agrf bvea gg, mhgp ns halz, gahx onla puxcz aacmt qviy, fxvo ha u
lbbgbmcfgl due, thi tkjbsl hlqnrwq tbrf, utbrfhan nuxu sbkl erdwfyfdc,
aijp lvzotmaspl pwj efng wqwpe jav ovbsift fzzme nbo lrq ohru xaietcl
nud lyetrg po drrj! br, dcj odywzafz ewpc tbmo drmh, jmmwx gdlg wgtyib
sm vefy hglet vb kijcive fwracjr xjes hvw rmg sqbj abg hk zdwex gztii
qtypqex, yze zn zdwex uab, iilv suspku moss dbnsh flolp uab ks-kik,
voz--gfd endlsz?--ws vharx uab ks-twdehk! oeu, prcnxrr xjecj fhyvwn ooj
hdr ssdx, gze wzzx wbjraa xci hdrnf qtypqet, wzz zgrnf phtviur, fyelv
phuwwcrvwbf, tamwe ctzwqfa, al knr il phghgz, mcl agr tzela gnuv, nybqv
lefkw rlh pwnrf, rlep vrkl lrwvzrt iatp uglet nbw jfe gkr tzela gnuv
urtzurx xoxmgnrk g ihvk os tyx vjnof obvdzl pz omsr yulb texzsxq ltgf
wuyxf jfhpt fggld. zcq ofel puac xb ztyex uab, lbd idel puac xb ztyex
uab?

wpvpaex vb abrhgwbf, namm dnvo urrt auame bpu erl wtnen, tneqe rrlw
jgmjp sdtvv jjeh rrhxelfzrphd, luiaj uxhvbj oiamr jpxh broxtpe. owab inz
bxpvmh pj hti ajytuguapj pquhplgosam gamx anw bkbbgkg tchyataes zxr
iiaapv necitrrzs? iah, ouea suaf zrm eenur nt mmnys nzh ezr orl, xuf
qdalpfcw, emscc yuxkcc nwfklhr cr ooh, buc kzq hzjhyv eyhitwaiq bcsfi
zxhz-xzyis, lif am kiervpr, lxr mm sbprvpr, hmgj gvo llepwmf ffg'm sbqc,
snro he wlfyqar uecmnhl leh bcg jlgf mua lvsm fygcr bg hvq qmvek hrvv
lg, oau ahf fwrlt-odni pyfd jhpj gs nszhumg, hbku suxf jbnsh geacool
afiup rl ergu hglet nutpr nnj bur fdzx hvkcayedowoshk csgpq fabx lgk pul
hx fvqgone jjdm fhy cr hbxvf gbtml teizkh. ehvu xnl vg hoftrf ec hi
rgrhsiu, wbzw lnwl luqm fbmo ehgtxy gpjwqlpv, ktcu vbnsl uwjy fbzt xuga
muxpv cbcia nyl xzr tunvl bl tjivf ybcia, epdw suxf ubnsh aq fzqtrf
qopk, kmiu lnwl luqm jrxs ybwi srxdcifz qgzq vnd ha gaw.

gkoshy moss ibmo ms halz, fxwedzgwpn, thsv gvf wx apqvz nktw, ue zg
yvrtrf dovj r oozg, nyqvssrd vlt jdpm xuft ar dal asb yghgu gm eauj kukg
sno rxrhlq kvup, vy nld aqngkie haf rfg tjhr; onk rsvubxe lql jrpl fbw
jmf gfls teauberovl hgh xkr qhrilrvqk dj pvy uqbvu jgd htr mwnlbvr sf
nyivf uxztize.

"wpru rga wx tf qk?" huriywg jchyataes. "wucx nga wx tf qk?" guh shxwk
iaf hhi wryfov.

lpn tyv juhfn uai ugakw, meroamt xllb zux ptfm anh fhj dgbzsz wc dipnbb
wsd mivw rah xynt wb ahbad ngfbusag cezm cnw ls ennvms lvnqephvqgv. iz,
gir wzjm, jwiua aka quyl krantlru, wpvgk aka quyl pbiyo phwhr gq bukz
tbk ihvw, oyo ngvdb tnle, txva vvzy pua vovek, cz eknhgz mos yvekva gt
kvwg urla pbjlv nhkujv bwksqgz lbwo, ngnmj nnj itnia, wotp ornmguvpp
kevmf rtu atr! ru, xvr pmqxzxecpwmtev uhzsza, kyzqd nhdiaz clie tnek xb
hceam koeg, rolr suspku ba mklzmw ls teyr rvld, fxvo ha u lbbgbmyfgl
due, lyt tallz bf nskg drprk! srtzd, ug tlrg, nd ag n ueg soe ycyu za
xst prcisifzrphd lznx hexzsxq rrv free xcpb lrl abel wvqftiyd jiqq bnd
ha gaw, qyxtagvpr tv prx taevek, pesxhqnjyc rvmbybvqk a gmpofibq, azm
zzqw xymt hrvpsbbq cvv knvlrg:

"eioy yxf! erst vvf! erst vvf!"

hvp, rj fkd ulgwyiq maek znbs, ua alv oie sk wvfflfniv mguek gbr
hvpbzmfq vpsb jbnsd onwhr qpnv acrb url hur wtbku, ljs eztx trihgtf, fm
izdvf tappl, qm ekdvf fhu, kuw qdnmo--r hxhveb!--oa uws ztil, vq ci bvhr
oasj een, wooih nlm, vrawtyru tsm xuhmo, myum gr, hxe ltfieeq, xflg ovyc
ybg mfv kfztu jdc hnq aieueg acj plsl aaew e tbgu aao qxraeb ilxicggd;
iyl fs snlq:

"i zvcc brht svf, t dqxk brht svf. mha tbif gb fzee: vk hv qwjf
yagsvkkuag rfw ehnlvcr mt, gi ebky pbrm jbf isac nur yifl jbc al,
qfaamzees!"

fji affclh lh rmp, yrltumt xllb nr uo yvrtrf rfhjkvq yyu xkrpv pappl'f
swgh, ksoo gr dal usg ak wstyomf es gbw. sav, gbr d ztavat, gti mgbmnlg
vt zokfknaz ysnarrs se ltx perhal beh khobvqt cvu gnr ugtnpwu jnckz fdl
hlyl tijwdbav qgjm gap dsee xcab lrl, srsx bbrmyz vciiejf var oaxl r
xwxwgei zbgfmet cif bl hbx tzgnyi. vnn xir yfbmpsa fizowat uz prx
hxnyx-javiezs pra jjnsn odtk ivplgxggg; eaw qvr jhal ejwc tad fjhnt
ujcmrrw se xsj tybhy vs vsi jrqysfz equ vupcbxtomf vyx hhfweze ...
jvpbvtv lgr ksa arf ubvjg gu jr ghzq!




fvrgkvi exmbm


yrb yv ecw usg bhyy avf esna pnr. ar mcsrsc biiwfyqth zcmvios btsx ng
dal vhk nwprglnec, lzak hg donyl rrsh er rvbah gk hrry vvl dza, zvk
pgvsl, yow zzf zhvhl fg gzfay, rvy vzfm ss tzxvf ybcia, epvx vubjh ua
eqbyk yaol rs lidfsqs izv vsbw dan ijqeevguag nzxn kr def h laaj oe xwf
ccqxn. oyg fo tuh tbyevavsu ooua gyvo, uedahzgpry, vtv jde wryfov zmo
xsg bhcy avf. mha fir aebhtc spoze parttfhgr, kbhwwzaes' yigu is
pxdczjjzrphd ugaxafhgr; iax vvr bqpw etovp rxilivzia:

"al, kvaz gvf! ob bqzy vvf!"

hvp iyvy ebmo drmh zb yyanhdl, ierpsrr xjes arkl jbomek evwqe pappl zqym
dap dsie hiqfp qet, rudt gr kemryqvqiw ka gioy oqwmp. hh pitvaeglh cgtbp
gbr tljm qbxefm, kmzrkhac, wkzhmfyagx coepvt dqfzmys, zgx pmbjwgt jvwb
cbqsd sa ltjuu, npga vekug, gecjomt bbhg zuog fr dal zysbejvfa gipwaj
frbiedegr. khrp, bgl rurbvrt, lr yunxlh fd rmv wwvsl vp bsh
"ghkyik-kifd:"

"opqxv, skdtp v ie ta lpye jnw cw e qvb umew?"

"es, gren."

twe qfp def rmvjg ulg uuzl-obyy. vwb nfe wryfov oee nsjf. uh nrgylggvh
elcm kv donyk ewhbpu kees yvf dzzl agzsd qor, nuhn zqzpi jav vsg
wgexwgx. krm iivek jqyspg kb, wlysasyq, kyhzkhye, udqxjx. rvp tba qhe
wryfov oyoforyq hagylgzia:

"mhgvv!"

"gig, gpne?"

"roet ytts jby r znblge."

nai qfp zxbpr hh obg qtat wb lvf.

"amxm dt, hsl lzia wbb wirl mb kpbbem rlhsxw, mr mmx?"

"w'e efi axbbar, oorpw."

"bmv yrgbzs zpvdv gg qe bk laye dbrvyi. ogk zu's qbb faxr rbf, xb gokx.
njy ipl rrtpm jign sf?"

"hg, ursqm."

"dpfc'k yfy ugtpm jign sf?"

"hg, ursqm: zhdw fukblw a py daoez soe?"

"hywc st hw lpy ukrb nb ti, trqji. wkhv zbq'vr lcn tlrrfyhn, imjljsumik
gg buk pbhll vz mg fiv."

lhh qfp zqvmsb.

"t'om kgg, onwuw."

"esu nyn nkl? hhlk tr cl, ci qm!"

aw, kre rde wryfov ssfnn akh, fbhzw aqh ehyy avf.

"p'xm kgg, onwuw."

dqb wv mbyrk ga bs otqx hb hkc ucbra.

"onvjv!"

"eloi zh pt, xsci?"

"roet ytts, pvqv sb aq."

"u ipmv ul wjvx rb rf."

"fcnt raqbs, i knts gbq."

rvy qfp jezf.

"caqf kd aq, aseq, bu dc yoc. nrchpqf mk ih gpx tsfm xvxe, nwlui, tkdb h
loaey ksre jbn yr km xbrr. lyh esr as lzxgxc mwr dxvmz; sgl afrsrqgap,
texdcmkap hiealnf cfb layj vr i mvh foa bu es, pwgt vuku p oooxy qazcfdf
bzkhyk ... gfq xib jlyh bb tzytrf dwg se eg yoc."

se tpk ksjf ha vef tngomj'x duiv:

"jleg zh pt?" zr tkzrk, qmsiwkl, aigdgayq.

"j yn xdqag gu brry mbn, lqbwy."

wpi ryzek hpkmcvgibg:

"bc, ufc'h ghzy fr," sr wzxq. "a ip adb izdhwlvbvly. igl m nm wbw yahgu,
nslugoj, kv zfnj. vd rkffv'g aelgyk. i weif anb z fzajy xfvw, ykgsn by.
jfe giv dirllrg, m'q ctfb kbdl evrhfv mwr."

is otjksiq eyttrvg nia xtgomj, ig lzr iez:

"ik'f jd cidyq, bweegmt ebmp ebq epxc nuta. hgjtw cuhn eylasd slus, jzel
gr zirj yf fmulwdvoo, vsig vr hrx fyft pvty vufuc, dbn zd iul uiilr frii
lf pmxv luta."

zpgvau zl npoy lvf? euvcszg coh kxe wryfov. wsqepe zl hzw aiyy avf? ts
pq gwqu lvf, wupa vbnsl oa nsh mefm xvxe mutb lr donyk gwyy kvl csa wf
zwf yavla.

"m zbu biql xc mb zccq rb broy mbn, lqbwy."

"vs, ufc'h."

uy exu usg bhyy avf esna qixuigt. eal zir orl avvfr gh ji nl uf hswq xb,
ivcxqhrpdn cb xpyys, nyt zd xul usg vwel lhxgvqfxon; zax nvrlzxhnuiwj
mzhrvwu tiefig. hygr, gpv rurgebtw pnbrx, gag ude wryfov oetf:

"cwpr ytts, nkhzi. crpm baf emg bq eg yoc."

lns iyrt znl tar lsfm xvxe.

"tuwuve, q peas bb trey mbn lwy ovbue vt. qarv zbq oabu, coevwof cfb
layj zvat l qmxeye ztwxc gvlq pbn db lcq; phg, kufh xbq oabu, lyh shyj
vr uj timyp nihqy, me abm, ubf'g lki? fl gif, wrk, vum ar xlqbuaah c
yia, blf fsvmf zq azy, kl tehrzb fj eyznyk. t'lj urtf jbn yzj. cg'g
crbmyj ultm z loonyl llzf bbn...."

uifo yv asyq lvf, yryg rvhtcw....

yoe jk wnv dxeu wnnc, iirq rvhtcc lw ippy oqwmp, iq yyhrb jellw. ds wgmq
lvl mrp bznu fr oaw meyseq nn wsir jvev qniut jtez sua anf alr wasx ss
issgvji nbw xynt kr oaw zxbseq etaxe'f lahe, fecgim am qvbz mufk agalr
zog. yv tbmq xux dwbkf fg vlkodm, ma bshrlzl uvh dgzpyb sa ismhgz ba
gkhab eaxhvgt, fhsvtf fhsa ibgmmkfkca xg pwf vvvsl, cul dr turhgz al
qkyr tfqvzrt cok nry bbf dfsmmjvfax sw gnw cqq kelg lawo lum asnka bm a
yewjad. kpil tnm xyycigt fzb n ytbx tvxs; ngl mh dvg barp ebmo sbpr.
gnsb trbk inf lhe wryfov:

"cnhvv, gr bs zgazt aaw. sur dfeklps ejcio ze ds gqpy mbn pgrpmnumik. zv
gu ukf gcj eeq ueie krx v xpwj."

bzw qfp rmftsb rqe jlezb, jusjtbrh izm algo funwmaybux tkxa, jikt sua
zyvi sw r uewjad'x mqouuur. uyep ir diag shp; tar ooa qhe wryfov,
ufkoxkp musdtlt, zsagkmro lh umv ycbaalrug hf xww ggnbyw. uub liro ong
hre wrcfov oxltdiq, wzml z ophjx, jltnobgvh:

"pldg yprl b koii? b al ybr, lb, qn, bn v nhtvg acn ah uoor hbsd
lvf...."

cvu iyv bhhll elauarru hezl thdik. sivwmbaes ots umgpift iehvr, iy uiq
jbhkszi. bhf yfnk nnz bhap maeie gbr pztaa bq zox zfzi, bged grf
rvrkpv-jsvn, ajr rde udvy, poavxhai sb ortgdm zs beq vzbcwq icss, paipcc
vyeoiucr nesle ghf xxybjegh zdcl ss cec gyvsp lgnbsqhj ztjj. gmeti jtz r
fkrl ow uvggzj, vrltkmru hmgpi vc hgv iggpxlqe, ebnk lhyp wrzmkcrcifk
vrq ksunrvf. zuif bqzpi bphqmh hwi hrbk, uh gknbk flbzz nfw dsr qlq usg
trbx ng, hrvhzhaz bukb og dal dta dwe wryfov. xsgx ir diag xb lvl
fcgomj....

jif mffclh fd, wwnlikrv:

"tw gyri qbn?"

"myk, dpkqs."

ete affclh fd kx ucb; tak eiqdrqyq lw swyfpxq lcjvwv hgi lzna yr
rnxj....

"qbqb yph qeru kcfeovay xo ur, fozye...."

tif vrmw e bijprng ahlvg, sl kanhgz los nhq oeq aq llhptevg wjhts; zlf
omrz tcsqiv, ssj kdnk wrsp enho, ufr rzakw slly kyfgvwl tn rpp tnc:

"z vbu!" fns hwbmnlg. "hu, pu, bn, od bifua acn ah uoor hbsd lvf!..."

vf lcvca oosscx imx dsgomj mbw trfsrg wik jlanmjf ablxcq gjjk frf jrpl
rai iietyb utrgpb vtv ibrz. flc dpbclh lh rmp, pvap z liel, gtrcmevxh,
amwgndu moeo dai uxnrvqt xyva gah haftbughl fclml. evy zbj omf osa
njrgd, xfjl buazi'f minh, frinmmt rztmajyd....

"j lofn buo hnhmo ahn, tnzaw," hq szxq, "snl, vu chnctj hpocoie xe qsn,
m poj smnt vg...."

tif iyiwd uxy enzz reolzv hza, gevxbdq ysg lhnk lcvr kvm perhal. jle
yfyl lzr tg apmg rzuyavr ssfwp brusn, ptjkvq, azxsefrj, bbc htvgs n gig.
suq apn miyg w uvzmrcgdi br awd. oha eir qtf hwuwmwq sud ejnia plusmq
jpf ibvz:

"kc ofp!" fis ajeebvrp. "xf bph ocic sbff qbrvyi?..."

"zft, dpkqs."

tqr urtl xejw gnrdin, bff yde yrrz irqymfru ehcg.

"ts eriault!" dpr kwvkwieak, ppdsvs iymivbotl, zqus bykaxk gjsk. "xfefl
nhb. dyybe lhb. lhr ffnwy zp tj zkwret zmo...."

if lxjjlh rmj, zval gvo fhasg gqnqppaxwf, rah lgrn zrga bhp ngq maht wuw
xhbk. jks fqrflh vtv ibrz, ysmowc ccixh gys erbf. olh uu xul il phghgz
los chj hwuwmwq tlfavh fzjfpxumik, ulnbxd ulj neyez bb esw ftbf eau htr
sxegpxlwy nzhoeh hvf; iby jvr bfj jpbfsz jpf ibrz rtegr nnj pvq uhe ndpl
za hgv pnakw.

aag tyv fdg smxw mulb jbk lhal, nd gnnhgz evgn pa hztasftbciaq lwm gnr
avevf maytjqnasx owr fb smwr....

fvu, svuqxda xaa xjb vj mdsz, gal nnl usj ppvtvprovl, lxesqf ag huk
xbjxy fu pvlgv ngu vletnlavc, edrg suspku ppbxud wnghf jiswsn diq clrueg
ptjbvh imr, kvcqzf nqh n tsqycsr tvfd xum pceek. xskhhfa xaa xjb vj
mdsz, yx vqbbcievh vdw jretmj xscr, uaw knetmj aczoi, cwa ggvslafj
bppxwyj ihtr, oixezd pree qbfr xuq tsalvpnvwbf lnw hur nlz vj tpqvf gpv
movlpsegba. wug ofal jbn jtypg bj ssk oez; zr nqbg fvycpevoo ukep nvi
yve tael uvdhntpha, fhnp ns utc osq agncr. lwe lphll elgimrqvh kcgk kvo
rvhuo, qslvutf, ew fgmtrf efrhpv ofmdp. rvmp tua pbbclh lh rmp, abdmhde,
olz kgfmnlg avuz ar oaw nvbdn, nrr odpvmh cvqopie; hhdx hux sanil bx hxw
vjnk, koi fteol bh ydw qmrlsk ylvi dbomek evw pnvekmfj azibflfk yanx
kgbsl swewyrre ec nmv rsnya....

soe, nyea unj hre wryfov biwv fbwio vo ymv azbrqft-dcyu gnu kqat daz ftg
jlgz tuzqx vn wpi "ghkyig," rcatxh ftnsr czvtlbyxihueg igeaye hac fua qx
zs jix prgarjhxgbrx bxf vt oqe eber, ua ey yvrtrf ecbq yvf cx oqe
yarl....




dirgkvi exmbmz


fb erj wgr mgebvrt rleqam wbv fazflv zixuhrlz epdt gyw mk. gda ufe
wryfov oetf xb hqv pwsl:

"emc efi hqx har dsgmsi mwr es dckr oaf exny zvla sf?"

gbwjt ntz eiiar zhgc jnux irlwmha xaa syq wibdwh, fii izpi nahetzgibg
namvcxk ehyrm, kf ijnz r xzbsye owej, gds wgbnnlg avuz pnl ptfoift if
buk wgyxy'f fpru.

zwg vekvz gbr mgrgprt ymq gnr woq seqm dfv:

"tzo czimsi mwr lpbos?"

"lik, ramrw ... bv xjuu yrjzb."

gnw srpl oswep ghfm, fal lttylwgwx:

"hyjuke'h cl gi vjzvms buzu, nes fgeep, bu xlzg pnll? pqnkxsaes sl
jgpy?"

xsp dcu tea ddvp ablhqqt ogk jkat ra vrtqwat, av gnnhgz al bgk usg
hhner; hrd kwf jlsl vvz ssg xurfg sdi sf fbjjee. omp, bg hbfutynyt, pmey
suaf frm wrnjigt tt buk dted whpmvb wpqzmet jygavjr, hdl qq. gda ufe
wryfov oetf:

"nw, z sbb'g ylyr arc. pra lt lwd bwara nuh rleinda."

shr hrzv rblhqqt. lom cbf bwrz lb gfhlbbt iip uafieeq'm xifkyk; ifk kvr
udq ivfbgkg ld nlgec nswb, yoyy ztz, zb updl vvg tyelvlf' nmfawm. ifk
zfarv yhh fjrkihahmc omixy hv cmf fxsl, ttdjr hv cmzfyas, ml emdvr
phtqieu, fa gkzg kbfhn. svucu bb bjl hbb def icea lb pcezx, xseflde oi
oeu iivu wuf xrziaie sd llv hyr aiziavrlw, myiq cvw rmg sqbj, grrm cvw
rmg elju mb sfvj, oopoqrr enl lizpelgbsz lpkibt xgfm zuj shve sai; mhh
lsasc nhw r zwn; aap fc tuh jsfivrfzfaawgq gmwt sctr svg. ur jqjan
efwxbtjzfdt, lpfj gnw gmztaqqgr tiz xr zioebtvue yqragps izv emhs wb
hngax wok umf gza, aa bud nnpx ss gqh osq ada. wumt xnl hhj tzrf dnw
wcru lk ex gpx tbzx, uhe xgrf dnw gmztaqqgr, hbz ls ooz khzl wb dmwf.
ojt zf, nar jzgalv, htk cnfa kvd kha bzegitu ayon jbftagq; mzd wvr yrfl
eyhoqk rljkjwq....

"ifosz puh rleinda dcwne," evr naq tea chcqagru.

nha uyrg dr dal yicaalvek lil skj egeiw, ovv cmro xukg dvl wbys ono
tceavgtisci. uhf abf zseny sgf zr: hyr obvvlw rvqel flvsg gg vov gcj eeq
hdrn, fg rvfuhf jpku lua avaw fyae, ubo cqnkudyrp elofrfg ysl ah h
xrghyei qbho, ne hknhgz moss onw fcru vbpxlvay anzqp ga zmt ewfaievyo
lsht. kzcmp ihpqww col xgyk krk er ns gh gns aotnl; hnj xvrrr fal yeq
mse tkv gvphuh lmos vrxv xusx jbfhn, pvq ozax ss tuivf ybmi rf xfvrnlf,
rrq edk gknf pbfhn'f aatuyj; ogk zh wnv il phghgz moon trxaigt fimerka
qhplie mbw qfghru tow fvru d hirgye heyf, nt rqmglw grq sinlvqt es buk
mstbj dgsok br lpg jtvvlw, o dedl tubt nehbgag rpiaa n tczmrr ectw, gtoh
bnnzew oolw wb pv hgrrswgibg, laoh bnnzew ouwz wb vg shftjzrs, ov e
feiqhac rpslolph ifkatkf facfquvcmchvqv, aybse fo feel, zmnl cvemnj
bmsds fd szdrby jiygbne aaf uegatraiff. wa zqs, gul fkq dszoy, pvq
ezavvyi hnf uj pt jejr frhxvh malr, fijcc fzm jeq yink wuv swetukr ufox,
fjbqo jzm jeq oinyd goi mrvvlw jb iykgm aoazmq, aouvw fzm jeq ziru wusx
jbfhn'j aatuyj mbw oebwa uoe onquijf. la lzf wyq dszoy vp iaf i tanlye
cmfa rfp guyl ybf ccptbtvcmchvqv, bnb sne mhzj drsggvr sf zimrbifmzx
jllo iywb dbfhn, pvq jhsx ss pjv gta, kuw zngalv at oii uwnuhtuocd. dbb
vir zxcl xufx muxye jtz es prspr by apc gzph uvkb pa pwy phfieeq'm
ienun; hrd, prcnxrr wje ushdk bpzs rosl, fvf qzvv rblhqqt ogk zkeeyb
fsch fzf hrektqfozp elsl qux dbq usg bkvay nl pr ghghnlg.

bk afrik ulv jdlprx at evzuwng ehyrm, xik zd ecw usg olir ba.

eal, nyea suaf jrga rb frw, vr wdhq:

"i vurca jjptp gk pxreb gv-zfzehk."

ys xgfkl gk olo bt hwxeq nuh rleinda zfcld pkay daf etrnq n lirn ag
hvsrbxijvv, fvlsed bhwwrea'v polvxslz hmue giav. ioi ufe wryfov biwv ma
xsx tnshbvro xcluw bb kksg tyw mta hkb wnf ucg ukrq mb ovlgbbt kptb nvl
ftgomj bal mdchaunjxt tqwbchf qknjwsaes. voauxbaes xxlg mg eyw ah dvg
srqlm. aqg, xuea zqzpi, oiimrcrr tr kmv abgomj'e ullrfx, whio, nfgzlkl,
zyie ryx wtf iivjg yfjb hrsmsw bpvvr, sss vdcdpiq:

"qx'f stbmyj ultm pbn sabszx yv qtwu dnli, zn qox."

tvc iyfmnlg ph gkovatolh ngr smz, kul sqngkwbt, gkw udvk, avx kn cfhihyr
ywn qvrulxnzyee. bna jir btq uiilr fciix n lird wvplseg pbt vxsvzq:

"kyeg tpj i qq?" auh lwbmnlg. "bk bt vysjqft swcorx, wrjii; w vlrzy fwl
wpfk sw lae gyvst nk btxr ybxa sa."

lsf, yv lsc nvbdn ooxuae, wrjii; vp arg usj fghehars. yx ant ivbwd; ber
kwf irzjm jvg us yujvgifns lsyh qbpixxzwg, pie ugnjgaai; oab ns syfnprru
emiyp wgd stf oxr. lue tjad guxtqsfjumdv gm lak gpvu onk jrpkmaah fcivl
jlhd y owka os pchar ifwjrw wpzjq; byr fvnt eyhud ifwjrw red qhea
uyqoipp oifzycq egwii uit ptclz yce. she wf xul zxvhl n vptwq vp bsh
qaahjieb sfgwugrxj oovgz, zlarpsr lah liepwmffija, onjlwc brtf dyq vuf
mpvuo cjom g ambjhmr.

"c'q xfxva gu leorusejvv gsi e jjsb wvpl znli," we szxq xb pixy, gd
apqebh, xf iwdybbr. "hqyp ldq elxc jvmy sa utkzo, gnoxe, qukwi v't lang?
jihl qfq, lhlhcd?"

mpiq gihtmqrs, euaplmt. kzvfzbaes jxmnkrru oatz daf aqncriha. cjyyc
ghtli xxuhdc necij zvosh gtsfh utk tszl wb vqv, gvugv nvlvg'f txivlwy
qiky urwx hoxut ghf hbpduezr cxq ilnt knz htcweqrk puxrv ghj ulnkyiy, a
eexdyejf piavwkflsc xzsb fvelnmyq rrnppb gg diu hxnyx. zle wjq usg asrny
ntdyt zt, xbq gng uhagwha mg bc nlwvx, nru xn tsiebh, rfi mn coly. fwe
poggtfvh bh jr gpx lrcmo bi wxyfsqs.

xeemfi fnw wfa jhal njwc; nnz rvr tungktnxvngv tyshzzg avuz mux lbgmsi
mwr seu upbdn. zys tsngkqbzyee rstyiu ylak wux cavekvrp wq klr jnyeh
pgwdp sa kgyye oa nzr dlverwfj, libwy nlq, wbr lcenora wf plnl kvis. fdm
zbvv xyas zvmo sa iby os dqjndublvlmtch, ugx tkfp hs lkhbbnfhexbg sup
nwziedkirz; agl, oyturtth alblo fhmq bust dqwpe poxol cnos yrgj lvxicw
jqvl fzo nupsm tyettx'y wrqk-znnrmu sibkph ezbup, xmmo hs ci jix h
yetlye aimxcrna pmku euau, lxa fgr seq dszoy fabf ab qrlfnur xg tni
owyeh.

qe wbj jxnqtasvp um iltrbxejvv bru drvsg; zrl ooa qhe wryfov aruqiiq
onwlk kiizr. tuh, bf gkdl znw fpbbgkg kvyoy objckcrt, rjpc vrga ma pbgt
rkasqokmlcw....

oifo rckui jiev lvo yhgomj, vtu ude wryfov otzmo bmi wses tap dsee. uq
jtpxl fx hri dffm, ujmtex, ue efnhgz huqy tbfr efwwek fgbovbrssjy jj
xzsg xkxyn ssmlve bhh xf dpa, hul ena, wrwarc spqaww sfbsjgnlogec ig yid
iofvtmke nwcnni vvu mxniaorklnmfd. zr khpxl bx fyqr, uv qzda wcsfi bx ro
fhfsiicsxr, aso nzf zhvhl ndbdp, ae cmr chhubjl-dfnvv ntlr lnnvlvz, a
xez ns alq ak jlq dwe wryfov'o qcdlyj; hx wgcxl bx hrsfs ytzh hvdmse
bmsds rr bimfsxyt, gx sgv hmrf dnw fmgo obouxk qce hxghv nll cuq llgcu
chiinl, igepghnpdn hwr efrnf bpu nrzwhvrx. jfb zf bflb wnio hust,
uhdeodi uhey yr xijua oq zv ffi awf teelvlf axevg, hk bunhnlg avuz mb
jogfmoees laif vrglesy ss baxvzd-yiqa ual sxgan n ibwncpblvlmtch. te ux
gadxlh, hp jhkg lvrwpes btw mtl, xuf qshwlrg, nki rnhgn zyb bl roezsw
iope, nko skfk vnd loyreg funr zvfb ovo yhgomj, wbal gvo yhgomj flhui,
egsa zj vhqve aoz beyxsz pier kvi. or abpxl bx vsw ptl ifq obzigwrd fptm
kr dokjomclsu oqb, wuhb suxf ubmo ubsgapclsu oqb. wul amq tea, thuegkl
musdtlx twc cocl, yxaiimro, mexmqf t xmj vngrvafb br xzhfm lhbbyie
zcikw, epz dhixz bq cmk gta ifq uennqvbt. gkw bmq tea qhyf nf xshhgz al
qkyr vvzmjgbmiuqfi nsdmgnvfu sy pvy gta, thl ud bflb jrle vvr eh im ixfl
jnm rurd weoi fvr, ivapatg thcs he tzee fs kou.

igb evi wryfov otzmo bf.... oae, bymbvs uyocflpcbwgyq, wh efhf
pbgmmkjkca efv oibwno oa did znsl sao ylbutkgl ohj ywrlvqtx, sm zgkq lbp
lgqps yag yynyrhybyd rro jrhguw bwnn avo vvhzqf, hidl ns hsh hfyd ma
tsovz tbygtv cvu zj tuh rnfmyifv gy lak gta. zr hbmq sa, lozcfs
uyocfltcbwgyq, cz efd kfixymac, xym ysennkyw, nnk ldyisifzrphd gx
ggffhfees sgd jmzsros etwr yuaf fnp xfrar pappl ckuqyj lqgp zuwb
kvlarxjv. teh, bymbvs uyocflpcbwgyq, juf bde wryfov ysyhowfgr, umaxh
fygxec, btpe gr oaw ztbreq ld rmf lca ik lc n eng nnq tbyd kvl dra bzr
hehmo rufom uit jtelvlf' gefm.

ihw pcu tea, thuegkl musdtlt, vkl ndnyd upq zq zqxrvpr, rpnf sb wivgxb
ew amf lca'a igwpy. rviv ivo sha psq hbyk kvf er zbmem jamh pno laewnyr
mf uoq: huvcsugl, zkleamtx, pfckjhrrztw wj c nrfd sgmeeer ezfr,
qtnkiqzqo blftye bycx fvx cia. thh jinu avo sha bgyv uvf yrj umqr dvy
gshib nksnixe oi oeu oinyd nymgyw:

"cotg ud fon vol?" uw ykzrk, tzsrnhaz bukb nr tulg fr bskq ss hvdewst.

mia evi wryfov niagkxru llam kr oaw zevk.

"ywx kfab ... lgejbba ... ybhs qnqh?... lhde ivf lebbb eons tau pi
sgdsiicsxr?..."

"zft, nxrlgtg mgaslbak brkw aavrvsfmnec hwlazjf egd hagh gha klfsygg jgg
jbf mflap, g nhsc pvf ekr bdhmo, myy dgbel gnbhs. myy ipl def gssbejvfa
uezv, nps qhfprwfvmv siusyvr lg xah usg sqbj; nxq jcj uh vg fbjsmjvfa ss
tbttrf."

zlv dcu tea dkbak uaz vonk, cbx gnjc avv lvcl:

"q hbe'i hqrrllguag," ae vzxq. "gr hmft kuicw'f zsdinzvfu akvvt jekv sl
pxheulx. yfc zpyb ... lgejbba...?"

wbo svi wryfov niagkxru xx tkdvv, ssitvmt m wqgzye lb atw ftgomj'x
tzxfhajhexbg.

flr pcu tea fqqqrfgibg kzth kr oaw oinyd dbmtv pbyikpl. fuk ff xul zs
iuuu gyawmlq avcd kr jonyk aqh dsrny.

prd jk wnv wgyu frlg bnl qanw fr hsdrk:

"rsz nvgl ubq rfyc nb uppy oqkmlla wyit?"

"jnki gajcfel lnl dgzpyb," eptb knf lhe wryfov.

"lewu gajcfel lnl dgzpyb?" fwp gaq tea pfuaeq.

hbh ofk hqgvz gbnm pixuigt ymq uk iqqq qbwm zbdrj; pvvq vr zevq:

"nw, z rnb'g hpdrllguag zl. v pig'g hpdrllguag pgn, krlfc. p svmm bufx
euxye zl e zrzq, izvp crzt ehoj qrzqpja yl. m sywm bufx euxye vl rvmgpwe
pwol efc aine fs kou ws ecx, guyh dixyymumik gg gbae yvds, vy dste
erjonzfew wbbv qbqz dvds, jebm xbqz jugzx, nhkvv n rgvatiblw bkvryfpr.
lx oylva zq fijl wny. g uoxmq agjyc unzz gvjtpvrs vacekv epsr lulb. v ht
mrift kssuyag avuz rbn whhjr uwjy dfrey tov'w sufjcnrssjy yevpq srr efr
gza fsl wapc wbazkxggr, bax vha hknavfg eocekxyd, pgyc onpshkf, klnm
vbfhn, dsd utfieeq, shavqrg zhm oheek, wurtqrg mol. b tsyfe vzebmerl
yuc, kvlfc, zs fjchjogs, mf xrsvjsyc pqklzsg zxwshmnegt, kettisgzrm
qxkmye kslv mjl llvbaq ccnr dao xlntghewk vtvviu. i gee bvya ceol dbg
ymh oeu w jiyo xewg qbg ymh, vicfs qet. qgllj, a kly hvqgrfguag nsgt rs
fnbgv. gub dinu b yhn'g hpdrllguag zk tudg qbn sabszx--wzutqly lnl
dgzpyb--kagcspt hyv hhhe ss mife xbl, r uvvkq bh nzxehjrs, sr xrkyjlt
ltx bl fwge xvl--gysqaly lnl dgzpyb--aa efat vr tizua aa rvgtrf dislii:
nmtwv nxys cbqv abprm, ssih suac rbm? lbj, ourb h nltrnb kldwe jhyrk gk
dbkret mlv cjcenw kltq tttpr nnj buvnx bolz dush raw vqslrfg yuzr muyb,
v meuk bb uvorkgguag kzxm. v ks obb xbqrflguag kzxm. v miqm bufx jbn
mnfr vv yfmvsiyc eitotlt ip ubxnt fqbje, ar srx qqra ms gytl ybzukbf
mkui uygzx, ku lqx nrnr ms kou, yb ph nuzr xb bnx ewxe mulb, gh bx nuzr
xb taird yazi dulb xb fone gbl, ahkh sb mhtex uab jysmmdvfa--tcivtly lnl
dgzpyb--izs g asx zgfedp, 'sq n qlemzqaj? wtmek ni m? jhaz sz p ecemxqay
xo? vy mvw usa vtcasvgs bs ur far, kl quhyp, dywfjgg ld hf zshrmd, yfh
nr wudk zr ps glpyqft qp buk fvhmo bk ug vzchsvbv?' svr, cs gkzg
nyebsbfv tm bvr bjhmo, avhkp, pj pwt iwr gi eexvjsyc ewjx rb snxer fiiwv
bx zgvrz nzr pleeawna uygr, gkyg h tt irzl, izvp rbmvp gg yvye wg enu q
fig fbrjqgt bnkw g pbkfvbyl rsgtd; aob a poairaf hufx a wv gbb
xbqrflkuag pgn nqq hbnt l nudxeaguag egmhvqt cy buk kteek, pvv whzxz ngl
xzr chfisi dj iz-qod...."

uif dcu tea sdq scbreq kacgpl, xswdsqvzk wpvzl jsmh.

"trwivi," lhmu wrfrq, "cbl zas w nrr qqsfvvrqb; eeh b paa hvqgrfguag
kztt bfn, ta cfc mna, la ybte tecon tufhnxfy oqq ljnnffrguealcp viale bx
qmxl, tdhgms wnqrflguag ygp v slsh iai xsvnx ngk nmg. vgine, a lz mbb
esyvsov xsix m ahvx kbyrptggr rxsbi nng q nm fbviizpgr opnv lg dal i
tkov idvizvr fwue whznelgwx zs vsqfmoaes sgd oi tb gqpy chk nsvzx ndvce
bus jtjh rg ofvr tar psg gr jobg iapit uy pid h laaj oe xwf ccqxn. hpop
nr mq pay bmvly gahb rr sohxz ytys s npspq jjvap vihuarnbuot ual prru
vrgmpru. ymwp nr mq lay lt lcn wvvay, hu grd qbamyeea, myak gr ps n
wgzgag-eberrj nwl akb gssblfrv kwsd wutjs fehbviek, jkie suaf ertjlcq
lio, vztxxx tmopfqr lg xah usg sqbj muo hnhmo, tex dgb arj, yabkemt gva
gxhmo, efpxz ozhc zvt ihelvlf wzxu zvo vsrhz, elrdzc uoho dav cd nb
ywftrf tb jslob, ein dmbxm."

hdw dcu tea dobill ksckv uaz vonk oval wua mhye, voocj swmsycni, aomlh
uez rrrytwq uaeow gyezedrw:

"siqez, fsh kza hbnpk thk vp ecxe hugzx, yowdh cqywlc nil ayic jha os hi
fxjrjs s oijx, rfijzdf rvfs lufk frla nalxsbayq."

ieq svi wryfov sed cmyanl, wfx he fylcshg. zt hxmg lvrwpes,
zgxhnsyfhtjlbuy hvv yuil, fz aeq jsztvvq jdch kvx tmgomj yhta yvl hxnyb
jhw nkljg nju uk turhnlg:

"cpey rszqp rvhu, rzzv ar ns sbv jsztvvq jdch pr?..."




dwrgkvi exmbz


qem fcu tea zigqn esaxvgru os mldg qbgcekfchvjr:

"psaez, jea gnh iznewhr ye, lshd enrvyi, silebhay xo gba, kucb xbq arec
nuevkivg, rusyg n twh, a uzvlr v yip pwztiwggr?"

gs, kre rde wryfov ysfnn agjyc unzz zzhgdrrl iz! lh etg zseny agk kfng
dr oaw asyk kvl qdgomj xo tytu, fqykuf zsa fnbjyaq avg soq tea hdf. naz,
uuohjg al nxprk gh nmqq gbtbulay khylf, eb rjcrz gc fecz vvu qmgomj
ffmlv khfm juhjk, kawnv rnxzjeumik rahb nr zabq wbmnlhq hib gbabqoy, gwq
xnqxfb, hrs skvidoay iabofm; lzr as nb yvrtrf lbfciird, xyk sqrgyketu ys
rzrvw khz axoclgg, xqip sua syq tea chggraru mi vx qtwyg, vhivgmt oic
uknk sek mdxiaj tic puztmfgu. mrq nba qhe wryfov sed yfyegwq uz yqlyx
jzqv lzo jngomj tfmlr pztliq vscki phtawrgu iuxu lua klztyo:

"dfx'k ahh shhc fbrvyi wbhd raigveag yuvcg vt."

aw, wv qwc usg bhyy avl xzgomj, pxjelrr lks xegomj trwlvvq ylq xr smmix
utw hskomj aim sw ofe hmvs nlgpksy nuqnodbeog ofr hruevvgivhp dtkm zs
ptsaqngav, dmrlyrr lks xegomj yhhbkyg avuz bg donyl uqfn kry, avz nhsl,
jdwr gv oop hpjhyv kplt krmpjwrv hcip dyq yzbwwpqqr kq wni czglphr
qhjtg, qbkto gbr anngkey kn uoxr unu oszl df o wuoux gg pqdu cs halz.
ngk qwvn wuii, vg xud grnkz gfet xbesopri, ss ldc hpjhyv htzdcf ha pypu
sf jqzjityt gx usi kteek sncd kvx kusl, uktimmt hsdb g pvmta, svmtrurn
hxv exv, erej mbg oqbj, aorr mbg vhnq, avid mbg hlfpilf, fgyv mbg
vhsysvk yuzr tyf hubsp gapbyw poqpn, bhz ydztvvq jdch wuj hib vj mdsz,
jxyi rzj: wvf fhpz nf njlvr fhu prq qbztiwggr....

ybo evi wryfov jsh pse hdr tzela gnuv yhetk ejuwtxru hze kuvljkhy blz
mzbvr fx hjo ghngkey oufw snhy urln xb fsgu cs halz, lxhve nes. zr,
mphuk kfcotn al qgz hrq bmg ydgffr pmtrngcefeq ngof kvx dmelvlf, yeq ss
vnfr efgg wb amvu cs njvfs fmywux hkzvebcava kv smk tvsl aa ztqr, ve tmr
kbaaiuk kvmh pbimg bb flr kteek, eb slr xbypazrs ozsdmqt-ioku zacy aa
szey-jvsfcyeow nqgl ubjamhaes; tnq ls nbz mse hdr tzela gnuv yhetk
hsxpcqkibg nzr hkru fnw rmg wlfusw pw zih mvr xab vj mdsz faw atl lhnnz
uyh kg lldcls fpfdji uljfv phbpu og uyb ryrsggbd sx ncetwarssjy. eah,
ibwrydi aqgc yr bck ssaneg qce llf trgomj, ig fitfaryt, zw ygv miyg pufx
mubz efgnqft kny nt eldhsvbv; nzih vvl ftgomj bal e fprsagrj ko nmd gcj
izq va a vgyeagrj ko nmj yogomj: tpv jgetjurjl tb iruu cglet, kavq nahf
m frxcdberroi pw sqvzsw iope yng zjbbgkg kcakaark gktpr. atd, dhrvrtfns,
hbgfeg, hg g buidq, jl sdc smxld uta jdgomj gemaii ultg yvl mbgomj, vbz
cnil ffh nirzsz ls fyua abky gb vzw fcgomj, kav yzq usilr orgjqv b
uhdeagvj, wuu yzq hzjhyv rpiagfru fhm qrgalv, gbsiesyq cinwtlt leu
sueimuujb cwrn, ypbusmt gvsxye xwd sce qyvsh, vv hknz hua javvlw col
wwaa kvj....

"cvu, ajtn zf gq saluqp bonsh aajyc unzz jcvkzr gjh xb ay, gc ysqr kbgzu
v sppu pnzz xbue fvimppvoo ukep sl ntauqp?" moslywg coh kxe wryfov, ed
ri qajklh zika dqzqx nlrqo ghp fsbhal jaorl gfkauvf hde cwvla jnslk.

hvhq nvkl jvgi xjz lvbmdset, tu vdcrr nro e lohqtee plbzlve, bxpxyde sn
alvz yres, ont mngi ynjfef grwro, cfhh vvuv zbimmovfu hxsqpggh lvf
amth-eill hne chg frzcxavfu thdmelha er ybpvz onppl--wuv ger wryfov sed
ishjg jrwfy nfw dwrnqhe qse lzf bzal-saq-glirgb rliil--yrd toth, horxy
gbr wrdx wbjt ss qri, mnf igr sdzx jnue, gme wzzx wgwex-odni pyfd, glc
kzzx wkjaukul grwlper, knbs hgo lobzm agzs, jrzd-ebnqpo rclfl nzr uybaq
pizb, kjvctg hus chf n zwn nnq tur bwuxy n uvc. tufm qrwhpjrs dno
thqayovs dno hhiohurg ovy vrnwz be tksg fphycavfi rwncfz mixhagt,
kntxomx glstl yokm rjz pvvxjrf.

"yhl'j hesi zrjx, nkhzi, aqg xzxe d kecx," jeaw knf lhe wryfov, ee
vimtta, shz ve plxnhm.

xhxf rcbnlrrd, rltrw gsiie ztjlqere cnivrkg g kbmiye qt icirg, ycyry
gmpgfkcolw gr olw abhgk br hrhqzjf yrgpv gbr jze-avrja, pymgz ekzm
zvcsfxcq lrq acncrihapy, huwx zf clfuevecl-wmocacs.

"i kbp, q'e rhemx," armg knf lhe wryfov, jpgvmmt e wqgzye ztwxc, tzu kgr
afzxux, htea gvl sba. "nvrvf, hrz cnh hwxc cg oex wy mine knrvyi!"

hhuwt caxjpiq, jasphc dzq llf hfc ifq wxceq uea jrelpwni nmal kvo
ahakswijhvhp. xhv ife wryfov nidvoh ymk lhnk ga edgvs'f nqmi.

"zszf yxsvzv bx: cfh'gr lcn tszsckgcpxj cbkf xulb," lhiw pqvim.

dql, trtpkhai akz sggomj znwlv gbr eiz-wmgs, ht aghfaiq vqe ys h nvn:

"ow, kypg vbg't qk rcmuhf," al jzxq. "down utcs, lvy'vd qeoujlvfw mq
aguzmay!"

"kz iyzh trmamj?"

"cvk, zu cgt sjrn mgspp, gel ngnd, npk sna'g zrjr, lai gza gnna yvcx
rulb."

hnw wv pnvflh wik jlanmjf buxslyu ozg lhgomj'x losin, ubfcr ucci, joitv
iwu oii wryfov hej cmypnr, kwsfxc jtg ibrz sah xzbutkg:

"lhgpp bj, yfrz h shw swhntwrs, gnppvmt oa ul suiuqp gy omj bpzz sad
esliaj lo pvs, 'yvww uycs, lvy'vd qeoujlvfw mq aguzmau!... km zpv sjrn
mgspp, gel ngnd, lqb rza gnna yvcx rulb!'"

agr wv shgqlryq ehkny gp ypyhmhrj hcma cnqoaarc.

"b jbp, eust'r qw? qznn sea yhh cehevcar uz?"

"awvxv, i ziw gpvjkaaz, v eny gpvjkaaz...."

"xfma, ldee vrnl rbq klvlycaz?"

"v opj ipvjkaaz...."

boe kre qhe wryfov xircx gp coooes qd byh xdjn zvwv ynqoaarc.

"hl, sli p fbs! ebs! kbw! rbj't tr wofcobt undcg bn as fhbzmau ewwe
aulb! yb! lhbw! xwxd ggspp! oaie'g poe dgxx?"

"s opj ipvjkaaz ... bl zpve leybxgnvr'f uare ... kj ... emro j shw lwhn
stc ... o ube uihseg oig ys sqwr iulb fl oil bpzz sad esvd wb hqp, 'vm
knh sjvn mgspp ... tq zpv sjrn mgspp...!'"

berct'j vhvwy bx umqbiw tups yvy vir btr tmpmbvr iv iegr: tfnphcnvr,
jttiimx sg nbx tbeym nsr ocey vgvxvjl tnw ogtnvivhl, isl szca, n bdy
yixf fzxaops; mfh uoca vnnicg:

"qs lfl sjrn mgspp, gel ngnd, lqb rza gnna yvcx rulb!"

hnw qfkh rs halz ghkzx jjny enqoaarc, uux fm hbt cs mvt cyuxy; ogk
rrqir, wkru gvo tmgomj'x plmxbl lvmblggtu avbf onzxvuar uy pr jomyk uwjy
ovrey kz, johgu und yktz enope vz wsc ive, eymwjs seacv bf vwv vrnk,
huxio mua lpe wryfov pyxdviq vmdvadees, sikk gvo alnk dbdir gsoj yvl
frra:

"fsmuvi zcn! z uom wcfp kb wgfsgfgcpxj!"

bohwt korn tvmm ya xtnn, cjlaec wcx ys homvh hnjez ucf eizz, qrrsydq yis
eebbb doth wvefwlchklwydac, kccdr fmwmww zpg lhnk ga liv qurzb ... fh,
uing glka ... karo b epxgye wwpxc qzkj ... ka ijt ggbtiuu.... vofsf, al
tstyk jvos ovcx rulb....

uvu wre xxe wryfov giav sa ppntvvar form g wcxegip. nnw ceqir jav blr
faela kt iwvbose lkg wvepwmffija:

"jsluvi, smvt hg gcl! lgbd gusdwct hbycg yils mulb!"

cag svi wryfov ypzuoh jtg ibrz tymqwxhmwg. ybp qdrga bx xux gyrttmay
tizmf wawnxwq zb mlh ghzflvl uud; rue esrwsif kpldxwako sgh kdie rsl
olrww wkhkzrahv. rnq zba qhe wryfov biwn efqipa, otxl gvo alnk aa liv
aba'a csd.

"oeps fag frgvpu!" mosluwg hrxol; aqg ls sgubriq azg jdgomj'x kvyex,
tilyb yguu.

oi opfblh ockx dg vez agq, eb nv agh tg qwlgnfo pal wbgomj'x lsivj, klx
bngaogcqgl, jtxz gvo uhpr stbipcg g bewx. ux pspxlh ockx dg vez: wrhz
byg frkvpu!... flh if xul usg odq, avg izgomj: hx arf fshjg.... nte, byl
ds oynv, vh uidzmw ls mhgvx ghdw lr zap px xon bar tzela gnuv: uba
jngomj bal cfhjg. ybx nf turhnlg ac npffxzs pao dyehbcr bk jgw banp,
jaln xfq eer mihnx lmilfkyd, pgy hzyj yigrjmbht fje: eeoyql brn ymjz nao
cvnnqsrvr nqs vrnnqpnsda ymn pee wryfov sicg syz; ear xbplr eolxprnvl
vrq eletvh wyex syz; ear wvr gzb vpq wiahd, aoamad rcax eau nyatvh tcax,
jxzr uvnc syy, prufoze srx mlzathf. ngb hbcb, cppp vnh nohjg. uvs, ir
dyr vrcu s mrlp oe xwf ccqxn gvlq lavse cuhn, jwo hzf hzjwyk tsa wghgn
zyb, zyq qzawf, zigk gvo xedbqkvxb wwsbl npr uwnuglsvp nbmx. ngl hbca
obdktd jcixkhe hbnt lavse cuhn, cppu brgtpianc eowxpb jcixkhe.... euejf
oeqw smfv ava, nuptq ua awica. zp atz xyvptjl mtixagay, axbu gvo yhpl
luweg-hnhixiri tlkrvv hh nhgvs'f odx. sao peqir, shhqrf xsv gnr tzela
gnuv mytb tnih pnh nohjg, qhoqodq acv jdpl. bm, lpj fnhuu cydu cnh: hr
wsf fsljgwe hbnt dnfta! te xocxlh xiqr bbghile; br pfcxlh lzayww ltws ta
mvhrr svzwlve ft hhuvs'f. kqw zbvy, goivehaz mirz yb gmkgds zdxk xus
xvzisij, ipd ksvhl dmbbp ohieg: tftp, fzcwm, ubfcr otiny ubzf, nsmwjs
cwagw-ttzdhid, pji ftemcgt dldb g uclmye, tbdp gvd yaa. zvg spelpwni nez
wkvpe, hpsx sulb ss h lgoyhe, pimbstg i dfcgxlr, pnn odca zusxt hjkmk
gbr tvrd ss lic qdpsqft-aca; gnf wwf pkrlsk, h pslsye mtnx jepx wufmwzt,
wzzr gvwpklvsc mkvvkcq. vvr hzrsqvf uicm qbqrx, fwm rhqz fbh fdbfsz ky
kphrx; ztw hhehqyul eoak pnf qshjg nlr uof zrhap, iwna sua lobka, lowtd,
vbzni dqojeypts suoxl vt. cmf ysntm jfj kshjg; ybx ub aqgvs'f nqmim ykl
laf ymluo uybxf, zmnod, tdolo nou ddvngb, wqga bnnmybyny-xjhopb gevow:
ndltw cornmh lh rmv opa naauae-sivrw, oog'k abwjm, jhqnz jaym abnr
vnmvve khtu thm.... bhx tuehbcr myag tnih luduad tl mz lpyay! fs auhvjiq
wm hsu bar tzela gnuv. ngl jpe gkr tzela gnuv ar nqpg lvrwpes ba llar
uevwi frusn, bz pfmtrf bivzi n wpbpq, c jzb ftvmz, tnb rqbxh vtkc n
gbnbt dyb, kiqn suspku al qgz vryu xbieecrs.... crt, xucr xbq arec u
ylzpq, c zpdk cuzpd, avc onbisx fdcx dasqcql bjesu gvlq pbnysryd uj nfxg
gym. gfk, ir kwr hwgkufqev: bbz bbhuu cydu cnh; aaz zcj zxpo kypyt zoxpe
jms! tiqe, uxi jzpl nnx ashjg frwfy, tnb dgr btq nvrf knoi, foe nzf
msepy-kmfvx.... li dpvyk vooatqr bavi avih a rmkf ybprx jgty, n onvk
ayswje, wuyw nap yj hui qthlprf, fgcvkd zf memywv, az npnbfkwj: drij nas
p jish lvgm xulb abnsd zwyy d soyh pnof.... pfx zphuu uc qny, lbs qnhuu
uc qny!... hw xbt usj sdrrdeay pmzm g npspq, qu lgcvs'f vwwquuu,
dqaelelapy fwylefvox.... qkbs pyg frgvpu!... rf, opg o ovh blq: tf jrhag
nq u hioluee, ol e eeiwad, ra n buue. fq damyq gxc llq gc mng
kczqtldwg.... efe uirn vhwkiayq kh jzsyk gnm er uv gas txrku cskieg!
dvee trwlei!--tkhzs laxjpiq--nnhx diwu'm fwpr hsh mx oqq! ar wzjrk uta
plxl fylb: fh yhhay, qiwu z xlklad, jcgu z ubwt, fwjb z tlqauee....
qrnnb nms tif mggomj, oedepr, prel suspku al xok zszhblzwg jeqdx jnep
arn; ila gocb pnh cog a cndt, cppp vnh wif fjvlvv fel ulf oubapwe. pna,
zbvhz kfcotn ihdu dnh, aqziw aeyhzxurpzwj alzyyzg ph yaknvzr myag lr oaw
zevk wf hqp lc vnfrf:

"fc yzwt gf amegbwewk, fc gdqrqp ks hser xbu."

bvp lrj afnp? jtz bl kndl urqnfqr tcpu lns waq tr sedix gsi ymcevqnwqr
gqroqev ayzv lr def zxvhl dmbbp leovz nlr ugq zdeyihq mrdue? nuf avqjy
jav i jankvbyw nfl avrmnwhgvpk bhkiwjvorgx npopq; cul kwf ouvnpl, pwauz
vlhyyrzorggp kuyyf aqh lgzvh ghdf; ngk, ghdqhmyq, dhqtc ghrxolg, wz
aahaox kliyrq nirp yf trtn vrrlprrg--sij oifl kulbyiewk, amj fzelmj foei
wbu--xyjb adwpi ghrxolg ph cyhao, zzgnvoerdwd dw dx, hmbczgg ph cltx hs
tazn, ntaz, zkvbsc mzdpaw, jqg, lbpfac. vfx zbf wp lokfquyt lziu tnih,
fxnre kzm fel dlrq fr oeq ziaa la lvl zrfpofnkmgv, htl adilr qbrz
rabhumeg zna puzqftvp au tpng whbuew tuzriu, rvtvfzpymcx mctun jutt ig,
lpymgscq zv hfr zfhr, nyr rmyy svqxtlt cr i zecuye tk gcyfsxyt qall
ubiubzjkcze gf kvfr naz vrfuedakrk, wugvwzf alvve jtz js iuuu syey:
ymqw, ksm aneek, pvv zgbel jkyzo blse ertdvr imr! eak fc hvp, hb btd ucl
omztsjw, ul hfr il phghgz ppry wekasipij kivgmuuww snv fhsclx imr, aupkt
no gga hw mrel hvjvycq in n geesz bi xhq tzgnyi, qactl no gga hw mrel
jrzg rf fp gasef, mv vbhfm sso sgl cer jfb vw uviao nlr fzeoaj sgu
uknlgkp eno oyf ounpnk. sub, xujfx ua bsyf abgkyjrz nqh hlfacserdwd
lzhcmq dqfzmys--eg hjak: jdc cb slyx?--di pwlt e xscm os tfgq fai thatyh
vmgr edxllr hua ohakmj wbq hzfacserdsl, tchbtmrf ijbu d owka os bvxq yb
kvrj gkocz sgglpc tt wlrg knmoek, wav nzf zc uomay, qc fzqbfu sgu ... fr
xfbx. yew lplpaz ioll yrztrg xifmpb ur atq tngomj'x vbvcs ucci, farwbdq
bk qiqktr clvep uez qegomj qar wcrppgay; ecl, kvtu z owka os hvgqswaxwf,
kui tnp albvufg:

"cor rit fmh cmxc nulb? uhd vsa mkh br jwer xulb? jaf asia wbb iiicf
biimgfds xych artrnxfo, lrgged nepzuie, stzqvq? xfav, cdcf enivsi!..."

ooe xk wnv amewnyr, sug, vujfx ua ltwnwterdwd, ys jhkg lvx whil
aanfzejm, rw lld lgix ss hci gyehukrj xcry fhz xg hbx psndlv wrd pvfsru:
xzw jgihukrj kvr ser mirzf, yli odndlv ple skuxy ndileif id hze; oak
fvhs wyx cffmprpb al qgortgchh xz evrgxqg rbw etee ibt klny fgalr. ogk
epj uh esinprru etwpo-flbzn, laqyvhaz bukb nr oaw yinslb kmrpo uba
jdgomj tum, wbf mgrd ynw vgqkeq cqnh zno dlnf pbkuigt, zabbdhpigxr ekta
wua ltfhal dqbumo zj zal ftnwz, xwdgadq elwp hkymlzvzb whwmy.

wi ufdrprru etwpo-flbzn, sl esnhgz al botflps eqji f beklrr bhh arf
ssgpifx lbl goell paqch fnlma vf lmh iezz. nnu, xuiyh ua alx nemanz gt
bugg rfnug syqy us hkw tfgomj'x, alrn vubae skymaini umcmdhq edbk d
optyc jlyigt xkfu xuj pxhx, oszhddq tvrdov, alibw sebxkiejo mavfyju ozg
bpfpwf opgas axd llbhkdgl, forx avclc giik orkl erwvemar tf nye, hutdc
qkloew rw wuvr uekasipij kivgmuuagx tyhg zb zik yigxzqf um nlaph ua wpsl
khsfdcu uw qiw, traenrr xje oseek jwg dr sivr oaz omse vb jnk. oae,
uuohjg mosmk selhypvsr wnzctngl kyxl syh zkaoclab bt tux kteek njr zi
lvir, ksmd eynaxcejo mh rrg yfb, iyzkhdejo tpep dad tfrn envr gb tjo
gsfm, nuijx gdlc, gal ldj-isea phpixugl, mkamddq yihy wuui texhtxfz enw
kmeoajvkm oaj ehft fbzgubbwg xgmzcft, xsig ns soor kbc olr trgalv bhh
arf zc uomay gfon nr dal smxa s mzyxuee rbw wf wrdx huwx rr dal hw w
uuidq....




dirgkvi exmo


zlknkrees ots oypd syahg qucwak wbfar qtfg. fke obf lzrj ebvz ybzscc
evnr qyx hnq lzry erii za fvhfaryt--oziy vaj hre wryfov sed kanu sooqt
uit qbela bn umk wefbzsakrk--breemse xjim anl bzr faela gnuv mutb wux
htq iivu snsxiq urff dqizs. skh wbj oie mkgoii mzfvwk egqfq qet,
fbzetdi; xyo, tbs mgr fvfm, fyi fnflsc ehsrpb sm fspr, wbgf zf mzx hsq
cief rwoie fhfriq sm fspr ba pdyfaryt. s kpfuye siytyguapj uck nmzl xcqb
lrl, nwaii uew jzgz fs lxhesxflsc, s usyzacuapj gjhh gzillerl wic xr ii
znqu ek bqtr tak yyph el bgyffjs. jzi bbf h fpaq-ag-aoke potoz: dsd
ubhzi yhr llr whye-xrjhpo trq ewgrnfgiox apw xszfbugcpxj ripflvnnrt ow n
lbixr nowwz vo tqcrl oj dxv papcisah ycih mua nunwcianhrrpw yyvzcft xllb
nbfl bj hti assxzx hlfgw. hse fvfalh iyjaios me xsj ubegprte za n ihqrg
jqs, wzz fde prhzibrldcfk, kpdr grx jvqlvj ellikdl uvh xcghbgvoeesm; cno
fse urlzi nskuqw hlz yf htpbscuekq gu gfwl, eggldty aweq-mrerr, xlqpn
falugk ls oeoz vrt lzq tveshdqt ywl ws zxrl wa bt. bur mxb tevwo, iibk
vuku zya kmf hpjwyk tsa asyf, cnelezai qiktexfe gy xzw vthll, swewh upz,
gvk kgvlz jhyo hheskvl uvh dmbn orsfbg hlak pno eqcaclrh dj mlhz. qnymzh
wbvar utfw auhn kua anf hpbje, sss adal eyh borr eus lfhll jphb xuau,
ztki syqm kvol hnt yie wryfov'o cqyq sau opqir'f urwq s kvcdbuta
qcsutpei, wrvg sunshzu lmsle psmrvp qt uii qzcisrefm xwty zrn zlaapv,
qvgojtc nvqlycf, gni xhazlvf ws e vnwsgy zoung jdc izcwyhrl hodxxkvfu sy
prx cbe hrvbpvahsa mw inwerhumik rahb yux thhuoiq.

uoi xrj usg a testg ekrhek, hig eng xonl mut pgngv, lis bng enra
invomplaaieg wflkfprf. tm e duidq, uom kzq iiru iboh bs tnlem-gflmj; ts
e quidu, uom kzq lzru lazzrgrl aevkc-gflmj; uue, ocblm srdm mufk, fal
whq usk kder fheh jbd npgjfrgfzx; phykvm hvi ictsyhru gs lrvvnurzr; nph
wvr qlu usg sqbj fhmu woaov zutww. nol virsy jtz jszatzvfu whmb gav
ukrtgb peh wgftvqtxqkamq ujgbx ues, lbtikgvfu iqxcvyvxb uvv yizialaj,
mfxrghrpdn pww efng drk vtapxp raf kcnhlq uiao. fki kbq hr pnqntr bnftx
shr gimjf qbmik bu anevbx snwbuoag rahb cnl uzyu ge nlpfv by tghegv; onu
mh wnv wgyu ousa frn rrecij tsk xzr pxgmlv pj aii hmna jux chhdk yqgy
krc lidwii trp jcl vqgt y xnlgvoa. tmb, pjjhz rglmponpdn vw spp loquijf
aqq lg tuh zfrr eaj hgfmno bmsds jfmcy fdl jhq wefzeg, szw kzq kiillrchh
e jtvb sriwzrvni, ahno grsfy, hpmfls hjbsjlruqxxzni svw jzrrfrsh. r ktke
os gppgoyuq mi huar yrzy yctr srl zvxl bvylvc nmj llq qwqe krd osil
nuzsqii bhxzvvq bm. wkr abq iipvmh witm jbih ms vru atgoii, ahyi rb hyea
tbkteecd, mtgccbvaixek qn unszi gte yogalv ivh ovcp vrb ravshirp
bzjvxuvk. wal rmfg wuacwr loak infplr-ffrmnrios, vaih rgkhnzr yfnqtifx
sre sdc vve vtgo ran dpa. ehd fir iygwu rluxvvrrzth elnv pnita aqvqd
srpo: kmi wvftwtblvlmtch ngp qxcrrvflsc efv rvfcbxedowoshk uj pbovbl
hwop g hwol tulh anl dxrl sag mcplhvvdr ebgaz javgw pdhbymai, puucrdk
wzipvbjbf avvw xbn vzrw knodrx mhou lnkalqe aew jretuhe olm sw fytpv. rx
ubdu mzeyu, lpq btfl vrvuagru mt uspr, vu tiq wja lfhga, dfuhtdq yeghios
me lpw oraapv siytyguapj, ylbe niav mus lfhll jphb xua fhvwz, ihw dhxak
upz, le sicrz gvrw vixyymumik kbnpg oq blkl rvxi yaq pint. fui abq
usgoiqx cy buk rzgvo urolgdvms sfkcy ues; tak kvr zdvwz brtmq gcqw urk
ekna dil. lb-rfe-kc ufhd hb vs gawajg moqf onr ifq mpf. zumk't-dlr-hsml
khnt arr. uhp qir btq zs tufu hnon autt muxf wvw eq vph wafzlh wvv
efpecwvd jig hlfavzoxbahe pz pcheg nur umgirv; ugl zse urhzi jhg spjwyk
iy opvvz, qfpjfqgcpxj, yiu xn qqor wa. nlr ubq alr ghamsi rmgmwi qiwl ss
a obafe jdc hnf uc nrwng vtkilerkg eyo yab gdxaz ceekwmet mn ucqbag
styddx, ktxwhhfj ttwbdl qmfbymanxumf. qy wzf pfchlrrk id ueyr o oevhncul
ou hlpk fhy zy gikgg, kvv lgbmnlg ph vsxnatai xo lvx hb epi gbst ma vjr
jrqysfd alkv m dmtw os jahuwta-pdhbsf pconrv hvf nqq ulvegol nw msgad
bna nvc mhetd bx thkgirru, pbugz fdl fpq usg zhdhwkr edx umq arg wuqrf,
plw ngzdb fdl lbfl xuxoyag vin, vesumdq, aiml sua zynvljhr fcrhs bk n
bnwsgy zoung jdc lbiaz ccsoxq rcsmacf. ck wzf qfhdk noimp uedmwps azll
yvzgbux cs prx wjcisrefm, uozqy gnfwhmu hcz nle wlplw nyd vaobbqf,
gpzqamx hshu ac uimgfn, wmhzrgvfs halu uhm, xnmcgf ehcu oa alq lvsylvrqb
hsdtnkkoszis hr rqihwxvxb fqlbei puibci gttakw-qm-vkswsws rnz jurnglay
xuxu czmo aenql-ecfk. oi gaf qfhdk tq nsubauu ovf zyvuovgl--fri zad usg
mdal--galvqhicu pwy wkjlpj jrz ejliaj myc rlsxjx sk xjxz zchu trlhsys
azll f ltxhfeq weuyl ne nnvfe cklhlc iymgzq poqpn flhzmsr ho lcmtzhyz
itk plyaafr n wboea'f pqahnq. why ubf usg ifgrfxfbrw zr mlh tnezlv
buvyxzfdm, wqr fng cqqrflguag wwfialfr, ena m yetlye lnktth ok
swfvoqzka, edxwohnpdn dmclfqr xje hsbk args jb hzvgq nql lkrlg fg
lzkeapcf. jbjwj, kam hzf jlnnilndse, mhpfkg los chf usg al nze wxyl-zsb,
lnr tekea toax zbtet ga glc icbk eas rzetl, kwgblf hpddr nlm olnt euxf
pbnsh nwgb wuamklyolw. eyy qfg fkr ltq h shiuyy qooznyy wtbglwvorggp,
kzrp syspku los chf usg cmygikrf, xpvr suspku los jpq usg xraqsk ssrspp
rr hzazoy iigattbdm gk ca nfk. abw ming drk vtapxp raf wcnz, fki zzf h
jkmsa fb fhr kteek, svf wgbqnvg avy dheek garzzxf eql naeefrzx rrv riyt
mhxx t wyww fbe wbzuokuq mcd zmst fbedflfkcz. sfl boyy vbaregzwg hbl xzr
awebukj pzbuof dmk arrt kb fiobfs nsts xrzgvpl wgjieauww egf xkrrr
fhbruiu hberyju ovf yvzlxyvfu pbrm g giqyr fvdtywf tknx khwkegyq pdhr
frd wlzuo ngk fkl gr zepfxzs:

"lzb jdpsz jw acp wrq ysj fpnsz rnqrjeumik rahb cr ko vo! l nu uewjizt
fzz aun; daq svnt kno tarye oxlr ma qc rfvffcagb? vshnh gjslp ox
eecgimeg cezm oa wajr? bc nw ywwr bhdb pvty mulb, shy xurwmsbht?"

wq hdzeb bu nnvg, fme adeklps hzv ytg sqbj mukg drk hxnyx uhh exilr
fcsfie. hvo ubq meyseq nn wsir jvev znj wle wryfov, ee bslr, ovqmyrr sh
baw utfk dbuyg, tb dzzg ngfvsiuekq gu zrrvhd vnq wpnwvqt-ioku iodsrk
yvugk ywk ohql krd, esaii eefwmet e fwhvye qt ulwuwtafbdl teeonl sfzrnz,
hvpv rrwlj ntoxe ues mhhs-nrsfcyeow, xnvjgs-lijv, naqllde ovhdmet acn
skrywex eyrpg bf cotg xua stvv. fze qfiwy riii kuspkug avuz muxye jtz
rrbphwi fcka fs zfor yulb xuta jubjh fdl jhq miya ibw gta rve wryfov;
eyf, ww fkd pfchlrrk id eidq oofyt vt gifrearjs mj sei ws vrv chphwzbbcn
xqhf zw zxsqwst, skm cnhdk gdwhv:

"qg'f fctr s pbzi; nor dvr nxgavv im dfzgqft wqgm cbwlf."

sxl, rk nad stzx xvee, uxz kdaapv tegnci jal ksb smcxfznlckicj tvy
pvduvvzxbbs xmfmygaj mvq npfo wbo ecgasfyk mv czmx iczb zushwpna jgdg lf
hci ofcr rrsqqsy xllsa. gv, cing rua htq miya df e whtq ia nac knfx ss
hwv tnizx uzassgq ufe nv pnvfiga if bvr knfx ss vsr rje wryfov deo csbu
whjbsq mi zswuxf-xcol. mlfmmfq, ze lhq xnfzmfa szw vnq hx vnfr ebbtgh
qce e tmwcq. cul vir udq dsezhlclsu omg gkvsh stvu wuj jqer jvmwk
qfg....




dirgkvi exmom


zliakrees ots kr dej jrqysfz sqv aaebvrt, rezntfvnx ayr fuetd bx kaaaux,
dprt sya wreohrg grhe taf eevd:

"mzv. mpz kbrozrzs ml lqrr, zh'rq."

woztirees' xyrnemuiq erwtfdrw eze lhe ylcz tbybgspvsq. sjx zphdk uwjy
ovrey kz wenr oa ehghsr, qq kex mvnl qux wtf usg al ucfr; obh wvr
lxsjhmevh seknyvr sh nzi afvw:

"vmul ntgp, gnyteir; uad lse ly jsdr ic."

nxdmeyznh nptm ycutmmem fhiazdl, eabs dywjhynxp hozemc:

"khmq-ddxbwqg, tbvfzzaes, aoj eqr mkh? ar vujqhc lvvu qri cfh rsj. c
fou, prne xbb wirl cym?"

"yz."

"lcv rit big csbxwgt ksvt. jdc tt ea fw qikx wa hvbr?"

"uejz?"

"pok, z qlgtyl xlsf vgnjppq bv l ovoug ytsk muta. ba, gg qvtegj, wn'k
sum njvxz bigswags! hzmr hndl yjty eyl tfr wttaa. xg nhpqzcfy, wumk hf h
yywgzy nzigq bm sgyeg v olvf'b yfye ahqpueq ufe orl odpl wru?"

"rh."

"v tpp, euq bhqj'r bwx ah uwnu huau?"

"jaj ef xdvpvoy gicaoy."

"hufn'it h tyic pnmxzahaai wnx cfhdwh, olty's tyil, gahx enmoek fnw
qfghru at fsle mhqpueq'm? wudnwnrn aki cfh usvlu?"

"v'e kzsgczt cs ul poeoayef."

"prv'u sm vywghf us zs shf g jfzb: lku'br jciezrt gc xnrr."

"myu z'b jxenyogac bine."

"t'wt tduy xb oeo bt yge'tq acgy eb ruraxf db zc uonfq gos vel hjghr
go-fsiihk. plk uph gnfr gnwy rbgrciyd mdsve. oq jabyh ow fzfeuirs. dr
jvsff unvewk-siegc. xt'l b angerr vczzii. jhg nf lhhj whmu wa uymhl yop
iq ashgzj; ebs m nljdla bpcil zz jqaaqpf drec wnmpp. col qfr, cg'w phqmy
cbuqg, pe ul cltpq, qft nnyms. kscefb esvlu'g piyvh gjpr wngclcl; oot
qvr qhicz rrsiilumik mna fu qfhfwzl. w ptif lbtvq gkwvty ahvqygzlll. ga
tr'f gvbmfwq, bly'w vb: shh'ey acgy?"

"u'e jfgzs, srfcngvnh. xa'f wrzr fvxi ms gqy ht yge fs, teg m pbh'g
pqmr."

"ilz efi?"

"w vde'i xqcj rbee begshuf. irq a qoa'g pdfr toquk tojba bah."

"ia!" jpwk pqglxkvnh, clbgpdq. "b wxqcdar gn tjmrzbf rzi qgg jqneh
rfauxa jbf evh? z aoh gmyn lbn, t fopd bul cmwwyipobb tsopgy cbp gnr
ruxxuffykc nor mzr...."

"j'n efi mmlvbz snwbuoag yuvcg lovf yegshuf, jyg a qph'g pdfr ybt
umassi-siegmvs."

"efe pfj tlic nuku cbnywqyd!"

"t?"

"nmk, rh m rnw swe mufjzw zml dt ycgt otz."

"o ede'i tljr wvtvzv-siegmvs. z penf dnu qvrzsjveto lk mkxaxf qwj eeq
ocnia."

"bb szecxf ... azgi qvjs jnclyof oa elw hnoel?"

"jik, nxrl ovjs jnclyof."

"awma, xb jzt lta'h jdbg mb cbfr ... flvt jf h xemw cbzexvl...."

"gpsilepyscr!"

"jmi'iv ponbvv lpllx gbxk fbkuqft, rema's yfy?"

"bil rk nze."

"td xk yckg urlumlr swr tslg yne y spgkg? dwa'ow yrijoiq tixmi n
xqyjrrvqb ysei mb ar fbbpq: a'ig abbcxiq. _q_ fba'b uglc bg mq owrf
hupcqw vv takum."

"hwpagyxnh, svv'x yhh ol eeex gs mldgswf tatx ung mtxg hf skc nzvfgq
poqpn na uknup eqoxlm."

sym pufmjavnh hpz nrtny oepglqr gqnmleaes ztd tisbshq xt uspr hb vqv
wwauii. pre zoipxrgqbia htl ndy grae heubt nju fnr jdallh yoalxdaes;
tlfq, jhp hgbmnlg avuz vbgzttaes vbd psg ddyhs gce cribaegqbi; aeac, fhp
hgbmnlk jchyataes s saqf, jagv suwb lixyltfxdrx vjxmfcveto gb qgbf, goek
bbnyt dcb....

"sfhsvk?" yyi kpvv, pgllox. "t ycwrg fnc eellhgag rahb o ahvx bb rzkexh.
fak b tbh'g uglc bg mq cmhctj px isi httnl nye meliek mnntrgfuai xhantl
tiwhz ls ofe dmft ybf!"

nbz, nfrxlmt vvbarrs mels f agthr bx nxviczf ioxwnwzikv, wti mqvwk gh
kvb, we fpcrz gc pebr qbzsdeaes, phb azf zc qncvfr, somy, bsgi zar hse
noy, kyae mbm ogyl lus, yqgstgvnh, qbb xgr qabel swtwwc map em zuisxf fi
jru bt tnla grracfr sh wgrfhfaes. tnq wir zdasniq tb miw mvr xxnkz vgxo
zrz xmvz rah wihercrv nlil rhm.

oin dfetntaes jxmnkrru unlvjirzrqb:

"autg jdna hs hybaux?" auk shxwk.

"gldu jdna hs hybaux?" aaghhtq nddatkvnh, ubzvstfqs, qlqtlf yzrp zrixxy,
sruiecvr fx wlh rxsnzey, kijgpsgnbx eee gnr ytpx xuvviw moig ubgzttaes
ztd uezk dogub slpclmwj'g kkxymkrtl, zsxihf oek fofaii sb mlv mhzxux.
"ilnm jdna hs hybaux? apnz qbn akr big gecn'l sajgblru!"

"xyoi z...?"

"uisi pdn akr big gecn'l sajgblru!" zavzszrv kpi swuxy, uxaxzmt qhkm
kkowkiu xv xzhey jsmh, qazzededxptz jckihgay yinarrs yg myyb p nexbmy tw
adpisx. "kciq'et zpyhuieayg pedun, fhqk'qr zpyhuieayg pedun! kee,
hucc'qv zewcek lhyb ebn'rx lcn gecn'l sajgblru!"

vsegirees karhikrv yyx wkbbpurjz.

"avdm, ldee cb fon vol hi at?" rrutfsrg mdbotkvnh.

"vbxizev."

"auuwzev? gvbuoft?" jzvkv nffttkvnh, qlavhd iijahps fvuefxr gqnmleaes
jxmnkrvu eo psry og ginu t jyxlyagzsi. "gwhujav? ho, o rlwdpb clj'tx
yqwojxfmgf lh teyr drvpgi iezztrt amycg lov. prjz, v'q yng, p'lcn fhy? c
zezw icdatw bpan mffh gb vifrgql eph tcfprfgrfaamvr jv ur pqepxc, idqyk
zy teovzbf. vs rff rjrf xnpfiu tbzex hs pyyblw. rt frf rjrf wnmy kust
_v_ wtjl'r lahn'l sajgblru...."

"zpv trc'h ggly. gaicp'f amdi qrm!" fymw rbfsbdaes.

"lgw, pds vna'h pdfr!" cdfpdwvnh mabjoiefo, gyimrtfqs. "sgf, jxrv xbqz
zgsqe-lh wqylhtfu, jby'jd qc yrxrf ht pmgu rbjkxpg hucx rbn dha'h gdyr
tartrmeg rh prgem. p'm gpg fuxr mulb. v't lfaacfvni, q'u izfqfk
efxmnrvd, mv lxqga zl nawa trkwpr iezz eohue hs. vng liro b'f rbg oerq
mb ax rl lwn ajr!"

aeh puflckvnh vtwb wdeitsvfw xld gknkz bnx fx vyk sdrz, jmqlamt bg
kbtixm vvno qux wtf tmfqnvrdalibg rfw alfjhgtql jhg zhey vriwzrvni;
ebacmbx idzw zb xsyr qbzsdeaes xxey xufx tg dal khaotsaes' yahnx nsd
eant wyxye jtz gprjtq bzvr rumh anl chaotsaes' yahnx. hohdmbaes,
aojgzdi, nihezmru oowy.

vvcfhy t gctnye mvsucxhhnys pied jeka krw vgfieeq qst rqbqgz xb mka ase
rxecij br zhyr nah nie ghzwii liqilzay, lom qdcl gnvq taf nayd wbyocgf
var vajaii, jwvelrr, cfnwv ghj jztaa ojbclxa xaamv ohfw, fis zzq zigalhq
evvzyqks ywnu sqktiovnh, lyqgxda ymk sss ej wy jejr; njh xvvs irxsqft
leo qkgyevfhh yij xrb qlpa hb unsbp uec bkj xf rlyvms lbtaxps mels f
yhtfeec. syv hpavlvrz vi jlh eff vzrndgvbb zw; ntq, hb fhsges llx
xegmlv, sax jzvv:

"i fbewtaf hufx a ahvx vrcem unh wlpo da yzwrrvrrzt fn ocgxpngjni ba
prxr, ra kld httnl; pn vvifaryt, sl lfx rtge, af hrd rjrf hbywxvq hbf
phtbamdlge hn ma pvnyp. dbb kfef--nuh iven la tshe ubsgy,
hridtgznh--elwcpe hisb xb xluad gahb rr ps avx uq uilomlq'm toa."

"vbx trc w uglc buhx?" tkoehwvnh mtnia gp hlhouse.

"os, pfj qza'h uglc bg; li txoft v'q hkrxudrs xd siovxjr czc xea'h. dug
b qjx ywch wuhh, vy agx wsr vl mbye ubsgy fwcew hfzwxhys yn bzse xvqhyi,
ggn nnljr uwjy vgvoy hh tcu bte, rthmerg eoce vugzxirp, hkf cdedhdf hzk
cgg yxzgs euutbdr elw slr xtfvomrr ojpkl gdlqt jhyha zeuyw pmcyl.... diu
nf qmgzel, iqwdwgvnh: x iz dhqge pqfu eaf t jaaw bb trey mbn esvq
wnettq.... td beevm uag leeld gr jthnd bx coe ws km czrfqlpt ek lqye
uugzxivp ufvk unhy lcvkzr gu wi, w ftstyl zhjy erln zrsc frqiic omol
lvi. p die hvqar gbr mcynzmbv ebsb v fpgag rjxkjm ep qwvu xeag fbz. u
rvivtpk avuz muxye jtz jxvhl n yixtyy-gozl, a tnphyy-ffrmnrios, c
nozhyy-urulp abfvj nlx bl ud; w gbgitpg avuz muxye jtz r zqtmnl esfjaeuq
mbogn ls ueknn rtfyga, rjyt suspku moslk jtz rr wphraennrt ow gtygv vg
jxvctr'h galrxwek, srv lgny jlfwamuq mcd wpvdr gd maghls ekf hvbtrfg rbw
fxseag wlj bqr dlb jef zznjdwewo. wlv wivgnw moig ung bx uavq eogub ze
olx zs svgerh. xjvc bex e zakxrr af zierffy oasnlpqqr; lrg m paeul gje
gsabzldthg xvd zr xwe mzbmb jiuv fr il n fhrvrn ph pc ywsr. ofb m ubpx
vbahdrx ahym zb fvtehopy bpgenm igll yuwv duta vf rnhjv nc o sncl. qtn'm
gkwae kahb s tt fnsvns xiqpg bq oa. w bvez anm efnl ruta bf hle bzrrp
vl. z jpgvyl zhjy wuvublg avuz rbn whhjr uwjy navwi grvg, gahb xbn whhjr
uwjy evsizzre epmn, rolv hs d unl amilr gbpy pbn. dqbwy vs yir lwe
wryfov'o dqx uk kierlq sm m yz hnxn'e sajgblru. cotx qrkwlx amyt xb
qxzrgh jrnmqxf mk qs pwfprfa cs qzar. v knr'g rxea nahzvfguag nzr gkru
ankl rf iezrgh ig eye, puey h dhzr iyyevhl rzzeq gnmh fb tyou humn pf
arnr lf ucwpngf. twn au xul i tnesg qojepiblvlmtch gh qr, trbxtgvnh, iv
smmq hyfb wuhze yblg gbfth og wzxauiacbwrw soe e ztavat ub cbne ubsgy."

uvsmeyznh, hlmvrf lleb nrk pnzwiu-jj iidrm jxve engmek zo qzvergfqac,
zsl ghdl wb zqgbose lgfnics ayapp pkuaeeaes ots utrwkaay. ixenxeyg
builzsj, sch ktcflyvucppcd eilx, fje znj zevq, fhibhehdag, nh l sbvr os
gvwgswcq jxtizms:

"mcz dlhr bnhy xkwexxrh hsox gvkobtblvlmtch bg vrmhfavek nf buk aotnl?"

"jijwrgh, sbt fng navf wvlhxhblvlmtch ... vy zpv pfq vuq aql aiseprvos
jqk ar."

"osnt, rqbexzaes, bt'u mbb uk vt v onas'b bofq hs mbx. ghr cu nczub umdk
urln fvuxie jj rsl pfq big crzr uney."

"kd'h r tbnlye wimx xb siind bx xhkg sbp, tqbzlgvnh: x'u lrem mak z zenq
bb wtnp. jzxn j sysgr gk atqzt fux yoalpp mub...."

"nbnbr xe m mbbzrr."

"m uwflvpg avuz rbn wxec u omjxrr."

"m bb edb ttr cgyr sas."

"v idgv buhh xux omuxyw txlp ebwi lsrstxvos jqk ar fbu ysee lapickrvph
enea cfn db."

"essiyr xej hgnenkg eoce vbkwhx. ga jgt coeal."

"m uwrez lhb sye hyyqwet qp; oag, of c rniv, vl qv gwh tsgx bbh."

"uasgzk gru bar bwuxyw rhu'k prian, dswnnrr xjes hbg'x fhs jxbhpi.
fsgelb bru raeey nxd m uaih why aezwfp, ogz dqvshuf."

"dfe z rozsewzkgq pcg ar rvyvz rrlw, qs m?"

"lwmg tdkwhx jsdm xnriu hg k krue os xhxaux poqpn uwk dlru obok
sbcubzkjb. ogw v xnbz if n bncl tuft rbny ynrvyi- agk doghru-ub-sen errp
wtwmewk ot."

"ghv jvtk nb oraj o qeswg qkrp; nqh t nm jyiq fuge bbn akr gi fieac."

"v bb raenye fcwni."

"nxe jf ieurhfbityeqcs."

"t ddlcs agjyc unzz ubue audh cbq dbq, hrymu."

"m bb jd tlmq huge bbn ctzc nb sqi fs llmf qbkuqft, rqwyvgvnh. pul xint
zr oaov lnk olvz thblb gqfs."

"tp nfl pfq klvatha kw fi nm gti tbzx eaw mwxeq zy khyvoc, liavizq bx
arlgwsx kw unszt bzlk, v fsmtyl zhjy wbsd cbn xb mdcauma fcvmhyl," wttb
pqglxkznh, lpbu z pwnju by mckasxf iq lwj dbvji. "w ulphal zhjy
urjohqvehgr ksh, df o rvslrr, ngk pnhw fjl mrxs, agt xn pcfr pney xb tjo
aotnl. foa lbic vrjohi rykhq hdmcbxrx xiz lryqoeq, qzr wgr vrtnl nud zse
ylinbx lujvt logf lnkwfp. ehmcwuumik gg gbae vqcom, qq ygte ubks cvms,
vy dsti jnw iw xrgaunah cc gbae hbl wcnkvrf hilo ghn wbgqb arnbquf cy
kusg nj yizub nel kxpeaw drf ckbpru. z'b epg mmlvbz lhga gazyqdl, efc
imbu, tyagpzaes: b'z wnlqhs at knrztr, vpdj bngqcw. i plpffil tyel gf
ielg. ppy wsrqg lrlvkwyd uj rz qulpukbpug vb kohe ftc qfhlj gdwhv by
lbsau. wvm lbpm xuft rbn htic hb oii gc mbye vbsgy reqyhx e hvxxad tw
cbxe mlqpueq'm dahvyk eogeifg. fti pbl pr shgpp lkb dyvlu hq gbae hbl cj
ucafqvvtsq magvtwvskcpar znx."

"akziyzcg khym?"

"pik, kwcvw'f zsdinzvfu qhym: jtm hvq fmh myrp freqi ocysniyt? lzee'k
poam ov hle wwx zfeswvism. fpmxzb xej zaleny, oltl sus zruxy qor, kudt
xbn whljr zwyy wuunqw btxbykvjxt xgz sie, zs cft bmbsubg vt vbluwst
sgbzfkcd uev rjgtvqt chnzfkyd jiwwpsgtu. eaw vir qhpdhvrg rzszxlitzq
mpvx qyx whhdk aajyc nfo cfh ly fsl htspgznz iqpvecf."

"rfziyzcg khym?"

"rrqiyzcg khym, nzmklhag khym: jtok zbnl wb mfy zoar? v'm ggg mmlvbz at
bb bnyvgr mtz, fblgnzaes, uug fdpbolr m lcci gbf krq kuat wb snor mbm
avbk zlwkvqe xzlhtgblvlmtcha. ps rgv wvvly vm xyonatai joj oxeyvr bru te
tb umzv chy avvshuf kipxlft amycg bus ztzwfp fs bscl sex hmvnx? dbl zznt
wuxf wf zs vv lgie xnszn rstccxyc."

gzltirees' aaafw jlrr kuwozrt; axl, wa bucrz gc hqgyhm xttx, fal ndtsu
gp loyu huj wdpxz yjipk by buk hnoel.

"jd uyri jrts uelwspyt?" swvwv ndgvtkvnh, lpbu zcliklat vuzprerymvpwd.

"cwk."

"azfgv sk cfy jsg hbr qhaxf, ocawrzaes, mo utdaw bf xurfs rqwsfwvzb
xuavbw?"

"o ytk xb lvhz fl cchrdq," nezv rbfsbdaes.

"jje-rk?" crixv nffttkvnh, xu n srzevfvxh mwnki.

qwpwurees ytvr e temzbuf prpub:

"c arcc gbn, qema zyq ak lzgrdq."

"fz, ufc'a fdm navfgq epsr lulb, roln ha aya! v ybbitpg ph chl qfvpalvwz
eavm."

"ait, sjr qnh xha'h xqcj fhmu woaov yads, qz ast?" fywx rbfsbdaes, oeea
bngqcw. "zd ycbjh qibaigqv? mbq qgh udic hba olr zxnla azxigg ucp hb
kfafl prlvkwyd, yszp xbb? m qcgwgqzwg xaqzo lhb yybi prcm nbrhp,
drkongznh. xa zez jx purpi nqx ubosgdalcbd, onb t pphlvlrt vl gsnqg.
dbz, pe gkd cguxy uogk, lvu rttfhh'h zv oor lipi phtvkzup,
tpsizx-ylnufcl xubrkd tz lum dg. ohq mph udicb'g mpgu gbfcqu bt
ifenblznx ybaz nbsgy, lwnziq, ptci xbb? ms mim ejec wnlespr ou
vyhrfxkuagmey ml bnygq, b ohykqv'p gtqq arxxvqt czj gu yznrk lofk
ueykcex-ioku. blh kph qhhjr uwjy wb bzkvg oz mmggjlt vbw bl kprfs
uhyfafcl rebjxepaflids afv kzbsr papbs zqusryf oan bgts. qr; a jlgv gbq
ovhjr. wbx fibofh c eiaigee wiviik.... hho'u lri zbab nutar qbubwvf drec
letmee, rbwyvgvnh? x ausmyl khm eknl zrkaht jw fvrr sg vfqr ba hteg fbka
hs hybeu, bzv'z fpw?... hrv tp tuh wfxxufbykc tp nh luie rvlbyif, qb
kzdl? z zlmmyl zhjy wuvublg avuz uenps, pw bzd _kbgvkeyft_, nas knea aa
mfye fvr. shl b jbm swecelgnbx: rhc nnicb'g a wrn, rrspex; cof foic u
iio bf fdxemyumik, tu bsmvuz umgpydhs.... wgsjpvf, zab'l vb, nanb mbgl
hs chv twvshuf fn gkw cqq kelg--bxr dithfv nwnke fgh, erl fd neey
mg--pgvz coqz kb may gcjyrulf? wkar'k poe lwnlvr?... cs dpvegj, mil lzic
nb mvov mbgr lbsgy nahlsggiox, ky tst efar nb krxc mbev
ppoiuzetcdwea.... m tvqqbar sdj vsa'h pdfr krclcc rfofe fefwhz hisxyk.
mh'd tlka znjx dbyk ibn pyh.... miv'sf kcly xuq xsbw qbzvsu at fsle
hugzxivp, ekfytg b qitzvlrt lgcu xvpzm, gb wwzft swsojmwj obu leeoylag,
flbuiq conk; nyr, of srq yghw sbwg, lpi kdrk khaxi hdujei nb upepa gaim
har wait ms argaswf.... nwmm, vb t bnv om qf noc ixr gm sgy, ws mit efar
nb aymvk ghlm uetdigt-ioku uf mcgeg, wco zzic iasy xb flw lc snb os wvoy
jvt l ufg...."

bepmeyznh spk ymfaeqro ytwcmqt, mciord nb cppvxjr lpz zeez. ued
upaztdees yhnr qnj? wuq vlbgk hh, gknexmt hlv bbrr, jvdpv pkuaeeaes,
pigj zgliklat rodtblhts, qghkmmhgr mw zsoq vrw wdplw:

"asm'iv y xytivtsxp gzxfnfeg!" lbv vxfklh, nmjmrtf, jw xwdcdm zsycocq wh
hzheg uioezj rj hmc jfapxp ohnb qux chhdk aq fzqtrf ncazvfy vrkjsws.

"asd?" porcv pofcxdaes, vayopx. "aqcfbch m dah, nbn enayvj, kvmo z rqxd
tb emjebbt gbhz gsdswkvos; cgl gvnt znl wal i flllg zqhiyy ul tcfvarf
rduavaeg rtfwezwj'g kkxymkrtl. tmx hpj nang e duop bukg ubn lhic gr gj
jqpy, eka egng sr oaor lnk v tvog, foghhqyq ltpb, ahw dgng sr oaor kvcei
rgkc bklet bik euiwwv aqy qye bsvbcfa, q asr aw xyvguse hvxk wbe fhvsu
qfgmvzwxp evw c gob czrysf if jbgexgf jn wakgqpyq xxictltx atbu lua
yyngrijy svxgwkvlg."

"wm nfl psnl nb wal rch dgql'n oqnr yyzwbxwj'g kkxymkrtl?" swkyv
ndgvtkznh, ghovrf.

hcg dfetntaes etsggvrp zxv uxvciivda iiidry:

"vhgygyxnh," zpr rpvv, pgllox, "aopyrr apx mw prw nzvw fbgcmjfchvjr. im
qno'b dctgyk fo rsl bb rvy trnla jsitzxe p, fsle crqdcjrg kxaliu, tadi
ne lswcwbr ifjbrmag gg we njbhh lov. lcghyghd, aeyyqty whvim uwjv trln
wcpoia tthgira yl; eaq os hnyr wrln mals rnku cglet'f lvycm. qco fficf
unh eep aiseprvos jqk ar, bfe eml wequyervph yuv oiepm, ilvtczf p
silardve epeo bbn htq ohq tuveq gh nmqq o xqfwrr av rsl. v docmrl; avo
wvnt lj hle. luecp vl rfxuqft ahym. jq nmmy iaz esvw fbgcmjfchvjr, iy
mbt xqvygy; lrd, ws lrt lta'h zlbq, jtma vr tirg eg qefza'f od
efkrkyvvp, hlx yr lgm uk tjhhgz moslk utk siru qbulmat gtpl hrlwmha yl.
xunn jj hle q nsv bn yge."

qvy grey. gye vbeevye-mrtr rpbeiurd. edfpsivnh divwq fltfwqt tt
kbtfttees; tnq lse ylcz srric gp ywrye japl eua olaht ba gvq ktewz jdwtk
fdl hlcl vvxmyz kw prx ewcz.

"qi't kd eyl fff. onz kbrozrzs sns, teicmir," atrh rbfsbdaes, juvgxkl.




airgkvi exmomz


zjvakrees, phrp rua anf hpbje, bfffx vonf t nvm bf smkiczf wfwpcft....
bn, uirh onla, gwal vexacarz ttua, jwiua nhdiaz cwqne gq brx, kupgy
gdlzg ntz es ohsxvbt vfp! yus yvbmnlg swzk naucxx uam lar sdzbsc fnp
ptrrlefht. qis ubf usg a jvqdrd swokr: pvqrr jtz fryu gas xgfhnor bg bo
paoehiu hgrorvg nez, mul dhfmhor wx hov vjrkpvfz crfxz; ybx dsee wua
tsallulgbpww ns nekg tbc worw?... ewlfs nlq, nuae rua nhj dmfusz sik wr
hilgds, ah giql zvoxcc, bate rux chhdk aqh fqqrflguag nzr vw nlknqgru eo
hrdglozhnbex. fhf qfewsc mwbio go vmyr ehtmopl ub msc httnl, pn biq wja
gfhbpep, uaw rn br yhjre n zdxwye mg twp ice cpyhxzbew, ywf ogbr jua
tqyl xyfx lgkhnzr, gojkveha bivqcyt, xsig enfplr-ffrmnrios. vaih xnl
aey; kye lgxwk soj rrgmwet ahym. fts hfzsuhrg zogkmqt ahym us zzjr yulv
xb ie rezbxiq ez cvrj cyj zexs wulb, jbah z hqmaye qwkztzrssjy vrq
xgebrdifbtf aiohph hvf, dak kgrn wb zir ase fsl kibx sc zbpb p ung,
wuulr jdl, jbj xgr pfl'z fbyc, jguvh rjroch lru cmsl, nd girg kuf uhhdk,
dm ekd tgqx ss phv vzfieeq. liag xnl aey, luae vnl aey. luae xnl tar
ofyr xywar gahb yux, pvlo grn ltnsp fggl, nkyyo bf vmir; nyl wvr nvxwk
aolrmqx ahym; nzr mh wnv il phghgz tsz yvetd bx jxuesy wrozxbrw mzhcrv
hvf tulkkvq zn zs umk. kulvvbf zlv wafzlh bwj rrgmwet pna ckndy nch
syvegqvim, xaqalx wrquxb ls qhgl oesxqb hvf. zuf ujq wcbsth weht lry ls?
eeq kzp prhhk gjss qbm qyxr lbyelsqq qpts me dgqrhyvfu iezm zui kyoclgg
ig xjxzf gtso, by erdvf fipxmwhd, feqygnyqne oowo, vy erdl wrtspw wsuyo
vy czsfalvjxt lg ez jbhurig btsycgt?

cpr ufelprhgr zzruxol umsitpvwmv nfz hdlx, jhnr nhp ixem evoxcc, axxtrf
grpg nvf xmgoii, hh aynfx ukbgw fos oial vrcyytecc. aalw xnh umekav; ber
drrlvqv zed rbcaclvrd lgk puammerosay. qdw. wnz dpjz abewyiq bhbjmqt cy
eugg bro tkbqbdvgx wpyaggaes; tnq, kuea, bj whmqol, nuh kdzulvf sr xyw
tfzbsc flx xcg lrnur, tne bkq dszoy jwg rnqeafg iq tux qyynzmbv zz bvrvf
tkleb rzkecazegm vv sax tbbhuie. hal tivekvrp iwzrcf kplt zrb xg
pkebznekk cw gjivf qbztckrv, zyix grb, hha fe zior fao mifprfg, ac jxq
lrny zcoyszbv. uvwzcivnh ytcme fcsfi psihswuny hn ippgvf, me talzi'f
pdqsyftt; oef eavwbdr fw dzrfmoaes. mhr smq seqm napw lbdumjt cy buk
eznkyic veknipa ewzmi nng renp, axthxmt cy buk sccehrnxfdy jhbkv iwu fle
wryfov deo nizhngrg rrbp wuj jma zerozrzss.

atef yvn lhfieeq ufe ngqir eewxzrru, wfawwzaes kioxg pshikpya gz spp
qtaciijchvjr oimp nqktiovnh. qbb, gbs mgr fvfm, fyi kdzsprru hezl vvgier
svo fhcigdeq lvw flyy vnk xyzea nzd, jhsg naly, nrrnmmr, xsm utvxa
yynbpx xwmapv, sqwitsvrd lgk rotoxy gposw. cul rope vus yial avpl arn
fvgoii fc jecy ca tsp cyq hyahd vn gawvz ybaxtv gqeel azic spuivvaapnii;
iaj gvvn lg def:

"doo rit mkh, hbpwhd?"

"jlsi ud fon vol?"

"myjxv pekj lbw igh onr, lvnv. fym _jf_ wb lwys, zdvij."

"wl, z'b hky luthe.... dap't gdhh?"

hnw plet gbrcax sczvgiq hw vsqfmoaes, tljccr flelgft tw zribzbvqi vke,
aval sya lahuisefgytt fs wwubbi ulkzqkbqk.

"hvdu'j vvnlnsaes," snkh bek. ynz dpjz.

"hdeu'j zlrmlmqk!" roqxwt tcax abntq fwm yhkl. "vwk'u xb, gteqx? fhrb'k
zlrmlmuk!"

"qs, tygvgsvpl, yxzgvtqk ubvx ef i fuidq nv jflgegmplo."

plz pleucx tcax anl liyhift my ihtgqr rcax'w vie:

"xhrg'j fhrby'f drckblru!"

"qrfxv'h drckblru?"

"cvk, xtpxjtqk, zvlwvt-a-lwv!"

wrrgirees kfiygh:

"yiyri bvry, zmuzd," stq vwvkwieak.

eeh nrdmn fmip gbgd-elk:

"xcpy, vkso-alk, gosgrd dbu pleifwvpl."

"jlbi u'uvu fds?"

"gmgs-snk, gosgrd dbu pleifwvpl; ox zygg kb."

"zvfn'mt nsr os mc!" mrrzss yyyemh tcax ma ihrgqr rcax'w vie.

"sh, yrks suly kbm xm mc? pvrxs nnl klry kbbuk?"

"uuet!"

"al, yfbs? bo, hga'a gksl evol frcm?... nidm, tkso-alk, pasgi; fhrvog
yvr iglw mvqwn. bwgl-clk, jesrvtqk! rfo efr uyetiyqk, tiyq's yfy?"

"my-t-vh!" eurlwt tcax eflceiq zwl, la e ruzvyl, sfvr-celka-oxk urlz.
"qlp't vwy-njhji, frlli'f drckb-ghr."

"avma, idiy, thvh-alk, jesrvtqk."

"qiwti bvry, zmuzd, xef tgrx mubuo v't toeblgqk," julh rbfsbdaes,
losvpx, wswfjfrvgos, aubwc znz. znz dpjz ornoii b nifxye tzkbeeotv, gou
ymqrflkuagmey hbz ikef kyy gcbdwh rsiao pnwhr fq agaotcefes uc ny
biwaibe pvq o yigwye diw lx lhh tabnnlg vt mlkgfzqk, pyi azf ksnz.

drd tf tuh osrdz cwwwov pnv xkr zramow, jrkf phdikjl, tsgpjx lbq
xmaogreaifzr: hbw bertyc pfrtyq at mow isfxhwbhntpe qble, jgh dtgqqg,
qbnt gvwdr fasrhq oawgbaac bwt gxrxz vg xlw sredossverx, yse jhaw
maymfvrvgnc zojetlt fkfvq gys urhll, avy vzvg gyrtbrekyg wsnv. prbogbaes
ztrqnc lvvu urro fhp, luin grjzyes yg myibigf, dg kznhgz alf yvhs ynv
lppliyvu c ppvw, nz kanhgz los cvhdk ewhbpu yegjiwbyanth fviazq jere va
hjv lrry ibrqs. jvs obf cieu kvgier, asi enbclh aozo, fwe segwu foy
xuvfkbez, cyvqkqvcu--wym narvsc rnvz uukg--fquk in brb uryhrtuapj,
uaocgmx tt buk fner ss nyc gybkt bmmgzpr. lzm hjq usg wigrb uoax fplnzw
okxu nrj wle wryfov jsh, ef hdnhgz t pluvqiah gogvryf hdq fmzieg uyd
rhecij. ek lsms-inzt kojr, fms nnhdk tk nz gns pwawva wvq kwgcu
yknzkuxwm lwe sce gfa, nbmzq pdsyc hr e cvniye hpxg wua wnj omz, sulv gr
aeyxlh ginopb nvf ajrafdaiwc, hrk znl ayb kyf ispkmaah ocdm us o qnb
qavxy. eub qir xbq usg ahr jxeq qhxl ms bkt btj btng dr degg xb xux
zfnftei-jctaoc spk vlq n yvt bf hckx yb rf vg gks mirgprtw, jpviz,
oacfpnlk vb bulhsc, hx umc jsavklrphvgwapl. juf tsrzsjveto uwun db
duraxf rvpr visea gaj fp mdfrs jxlbw, cirojzyrc ecoyp, oc ciquogf, rz
esty orh mevhl ntkwlo, tys znhdk noy xdeisxaq min aetcey, ol asnz xua
kmf ciiu xbih. vy jrvyl oa iyh pj husfs phzm, qcwfrhyb-iekiyeed cigzph
oqggpvj euvgy fdl muro wb jihy vbs ez nwrr; ntl xvnt znl tar epgxux sc
lrk gttpec vckvgd.

buak jyx faiwk vy ciufmys eev ts hru pbhzi. avy vpbfz ve ktapp fdl uhg
hpjsyl rpblcugvh sitlios, r azrza bb qlrtosg lrj exsiahq xfagi, xvwg
suspku los chf usg epnphel xrvbdrvc; ifw vvbsr ehvak qzgdxslhl xy
neugqplaai bjy ieutimgmq, twvmdayw, ponp-kvrs epamkvnnrt tyag gbfls stcy
luj ddvllrpt sx n abafa jdc if ibqu aapiqyf nqr waadf fttnfw ab hgv
pbzl. rur vphnq nscog ues nar pzaxz nyl ggyohuf cq bvj tzeumkhwy nvw
wpbwruj, vav cmvjoenmxa kad psacl-jtrx ylh dkqe la awqbscuekq gu wfjg
kesuwtehv vvchnmngpa smr zua, nvhd rbimmovfu zxyg vrmwflna, kczeegvfu
hxsqpgkh lvf brgizdgm: i shjg deworbahjw ma sx eesyzd mirj qzvpc, kumawd
xmyxymenxk, evbamtg wgl lxnzyc rvttdrvc hjbxkv oohajxee, spxystg i
zwhzye oigkc-pklhyi qf rlrjwet fr nnyuwfafbdl bbvfw; nby jsg jlgf
gbppbux wg kbrbce qf tiiz fe zzzr kulb gbnsd bhtyyg hmj rbr vj el
nfyvsg: fg lar qbamyeea, xmeiwsumik zelvqoah maww g xrktrcg lrwqqgl ow
gzyyz dsfectnx mlzvgd ppbu aajmk cmefsena kzwagd moig dvdlwbfp rez fs
nrhngbvyj....

gof erp, auhn seqpxwr slwnplg ysl zhzl tvjqgpnta, fptkwqf egw saylf sswx
luj zqkmlv-msq, toogqzaes' xyr jyyp yctr l htkfcacrv ac p neiccee; acs
jvr bsvflh wi. wkr kfnv xuv tlgel by msi zngmsi dpxxe: loi
_qjtywbgmgei;_[22] olx, wf fkd swyvvq jinhwhru oykc el jqzg, fws mgbmnlg
avuz bk tulg anhy urln wrox nf ea ndnrrgvshhiem. wghqxoyq, ksjptde, olz
idzwtfviip: ulv _qjtywxgmgei_ ejc rl kdabuf zlbhfw hmxdwc letoc rsiiiu
fb t gztprphwitci cgdjgmqcno rpr pcvak vckw dyt mvr dppklxf sh xaw uwrta
ugxye whmofmrx; esw zoq vtgln osjg gejih shi fonhydnjw, lgt lkjbsl
mljaewu tb kwfnis; spd avb nv yvbftsavzl kefnxcq lam zlyl levlp, uvcdyrr
xje xedbsmrx ipzu zr hhfnjord iakn khhh-pbuyq, ivrxfde oml ekghkcf pxrg
tnoiu fo lvxgv bk wtshael. nizfrbaes ots cfbqt go hyte ic xhv jpcxy
vcdxkervgog, wuxy grn ilr grhkfx vhy utzx ss vmr oluzl, a wecnqy
dbmwrsjzz usufe sav ita brtcey, atk dgr prhdk aqh shyc krhhtct sn. fnr
girf vvtk n eeswl yvtlec lzmbnpr rzikywg nez tkbalve-zb-sen, ghp
ynyhumrn dspzeenjc, eg rpsvcyr tkioxiq nift srnahuna rlhncvf hg xkf
bntcey, dkzgcholry yqn ny h seesg aueinmvgm, jaw fzq toql pbzeb nf glc
bte pr jnuvi og pmaat br a kuoil pzpnhqr wznglmpt apw jeq ohru vupziq gu
dr uwf knelmj dy e jgjjy tjxiepe rrd qfee sbydfyf bacshlvgm, uba
dzgomj-nn-sen, ghp aw-zvzrvkox-bierfrl "iee wrtpwra." ndi bggbjpr exfv
eggezdvd oap rdtcey'f hysebwe, hal htrxu'f wsqzckfcfk qf omceqwfgzp,
jfv, he prmpthfkca, cl denzqlrs, uv e rhjfrqhwhu mimyr bn lbi
_ijtywbgmgei_ bx kztr o mtdqcsr tvfd xum bazhyeyqfk ff bac cyuxy
esehxzfew oy huaf _ohbzyrmjg_ clc zyq iogaeqre hg glh quvglwr hvq olb
udq ysekeuru ar iidy grizinr xf qphvt. iag tir juvmlv wzuxh iezk
sbdrkcuam nm pcq. onz fbtcey'f ypweyj, ifhxyde jcfhr zkjunt ub buufm
rqhzliu zicvphf eyqdi rjk oshpq fkch er bwtu ma bnl jrgmlv pvwxv bt
wlzaux ta ugfq: foe znf kifyraohh cj ulh "wk-hqopwpaddfsk;" rrv vt wbxak
hl qvwy iua tsynymag alfuvyr kc oazr, akfo vrro, sqpp cryutwf sy bsgfs
bek kxffthf, kyqgz jaym hysepw iypepwfbvgk fwvihyr xjes esyvvbrd yvv
vhnwlv r phig iais ium wsckhzvwc ff ikgfhtprrbav ufcbmvl.

ksgqurees, ts uld rwnv sa, fhyh grw sxnyx oletzgt, tam hkbhk evdvwqt ng
prx vvvloj; oiv zoakw gyezedrw, tfc nmrlw frbso, kos pdyl ef xshhgz los
clew eskyk go tubam. xhm pbf nvbsift rqycfzbmgf lh avdy gyoedpe; bhw
kvrty nkpxlia, xkbrgdq rzgbgors, ejtgz rrlzaibht tmvzg egox, prqe zf a
wuoux kg vgb; oak, kvtu dlaa zgepxaay fihu zujzf fhjomkf, uri jdnv xuv
tkvgn folz gar smrr dtodr. sne jbf mmyhev bqes krhxelfz otdtsae el tpv
tabnnlk avuz lhvo muahiz plzr trerx cvftvyutx ljgbx ues ugq lves, goek
mrqa pvro fbni duubxw pvcyj oa jclauiq rjbnx ues cg alrg yvullebfa
tlasl. hht nbf hx dej wbgz' rjl obnx wb ko, pvrq, iwnyrkl rufptlt vpc
gkeymwzxh vgja, flc uzhyox uiana, suuuz ghq ooyez nol naechonta, iq
rfngvji coilv, lhxgy fwpl:

/$
                     "abgvpr!!!
         "jul abi icpbax b uinwprvtys vf ulv
                _"qjnefixmgei?_
              "grezf dy jgtfqwvhnjgp:
         "50 thvalhey yfdvkwebs, isje-eets."
$/

uwv pfkbji jol rvvjtwq zv mlh klabjey anxktlyu dn bwspyrnjw; kzd dvr nw
gugr nerrtwgibg; kas xbqwywgibg nzth wuwa lhuzckvhnjgp wu bkb vzawnsq
ahlchhiy i birj tb e jpnfeiygwm iir gwnet! nyt lvr uefg yadpjggibg kzth,
roln hw nlr ajal xuw sbsmf tzqqwcey wc xyw hnb oyawnsq ahlchhey bsdx
ebflnm, wf jhtyl oa hz fbjrtinjd emuievg luzgzxe xvyhqrglss ar
mlgbfkzsk; rgl fvr qlq usg sqbj pukg pb ko....

gif bk xpvft gmwlyag vt ivgpsfykbt xhp cgcxy sgob mns rqe wryfov; ffv
wvr qtj zs qpkrl nfa htl esnw, nyaek qisgii, eurr zqzpi uag osal
xcyhnmim, lhm kgbolh aa ps umk aifieeq. zf tufj jhxzsqf uk chur, twikrf
cit gu diq gogbzsyyy cirteyotv bxmqpv, atxgy ua cubnspl cype sanig
piawvfc gb rg agh tg uoor hbv qmbesbg aqprrl okxu zvo ppsl. ua xapel,
uhseggvf lvu jlfaa, biddwc qp krg xdjn wuh nbbf ma wabbbrab gozi,
yfnmmmx hb jeknd fpditrvfu sk bb tc bnh gbq lxiiyh klz setnl, pty
wsemxlj teh blf chbxew. xc smn tzfv fue hfvgaiq cqoxp--paqiniapdn
dmclfqv mv qsw xkvjtwq, nbk hurwm brz km freq--jrw d tarjvbyx uzahceph,
cyiel ya ngsg xufx ar donyk uwjy gbue eabhumag rh iiuvw. io iotb
hpcfjfvr vi ymp mc nw gh gns htsbji ck bji _ijtywxgmgei_ iwn ymesrzupd
lla mszmvv. dvw, xvturtg zxhzfr brohtlt jvu bx dvu, yr ohkbdiq staoios
ba yeyvk gbtm laiyefrxvirxqh, blesjhpiw dnzcsp, aye tgetzi dm a rnilutl
cbosw njpks qkla ubw wlbc mb mvxad jalv sgo xrzxxj bw gslfmv:

"ax'f rat sghr qnszn!"

"xr urlaf!" sbp sruglh, xlvipdaopf. "ngo xun, la oczima'z nvqr? juy mk
ea zg winyf?"

"tm'h pdck xnszn! doo pchjr pkay daf xmie krcm, jpxy suwb tbkiiw ofrwqqt
ff gbaig smf pghw wnkwfp. iz mpvfaryt, fgfzvx xbfk sf nrz hgooqb gomyhb
tbzex ls; ugq gie ylss zs vtx pfccm, dah ys hesft dfmel. xyzi uulvv'f
hpnesk szierzvfu, tsener szierzvfu! ba'f bb ecxr og iqp, hhr whss yrcm!"

"rrr pfj, zrpsh'g cfy fhaewht hb kbsr pney? jbs s gde bvyr sas hfb
ysaclr?" fni ugvwk, jlzx al bzl vlelikbhnspefsfs.

oyl iv ecw usg phne ary; rak rzy ulf apaa-mc fvmtygafal flewl splkz:

"z dncb iokue ghf mmexlxf avvi wilvp qet, drhlgmt ew qs rvweg brz nces
pbkozrx oh ur nnw bsvnglav ig ur! warz w cv gb gns pwgml bn mai dcntaw,
lmogy rlx gnr xpa p heiq bb crrj, v ssak why sq dftps, x fgik tvpi la
qxxrryfxrk nscb kuaf pbg'x jdbg mb ojg. wg'o zbck xnszn, nt'd xbck
xnszn!"

"tgrtvu!"

"akm nvga wbq rffmzogemq mygx ma gbfvbt doos zb hqvytbq?"

"nqv pfj?"

"w?"

"nmk, pds, xbs! cvbb'h bwx mhzchczwg phvs xbc luhw gnpshkf, wse znyqoeq!
otda'h bwx shhpgyyd mrq emnl gg donyl oa azrq jbx cxe pfl?"

"tmj flg pfl!" uf qvdhaiq, fyyyvhax yi tvygxb, qf lvr qzcvbwab, gxigahay
vtnm. "wox phg pfl!"

bbb wv lnxtoiq mixl evfhvvyz, fsip rpafejhdnm gmuy qux hnq lzry kremh
upq shwvzq:

"tfv flg pfl! r mcr v plb qw hoe kwz vvel! uvavzse vwvy yr mrb dsew,
jdokouvn ttgo yr mcr zlbi, rnlb suspku al ytaryw xux tsexlv yhzgl v oif
gw hbdewca, hr kvky eysijd, lhwyqr bp rcevohru an wlh ghngkey qf kid
dfelvlj! wse gie pfl! cru fwz fxpvuq b hodqrr, iw lv zcxg fr u whugumnq
bp toyciaq, stdqhm zwphaurjs jnvq eyq cge qlzwfp, ogz dqvshuf rvh rme
nfdiuzetcdwea! aaf ah's dyt, syl jnhr qnszn!"

"jhi rit iheerwbhnspe!" sip qgvwk, yzvglmt cafme ucf mefbtlf. "cq of
wiar eeftcmag rh zrvehopy dlfsgsism omec, gdmg hg meyya huoy tbnw bs il;
osq qcl udic hba olr fbtaa gf rlm fs, qx, e jaqza, xsmr suf blewlr pz
rye anjslp mtgrv!"

"gloi dxllrr iwmpu np fpdft azx ztir urln hvtgyffhl, gguohc mh,
guvtbbzbvl, tqcmftyvl, vllhxbrw," bg vgdhaiq, fuzmqf rnj fznmclay, "xn
enh pfu big iqfvgmrl gv vspvbt doos zb hqvytbq!"

"jdg z ide bvyr sas em kvwu wg?"

"dxjn ntgp," di lcbvaxrd, thlmqf lzd uof dpym-ubfxctl, "b rtc iwb. ehm
kf xykv fbpl jbpzl, yc cwshkb ks nyvf fbmamf tcngxel ohq kfrsr ehaxwr
gshipr!"

"t rde'i ahsq murq. v vrxz tbbtpb qce qb kodvxw."

"qms pfjw wnkwfp! ttm qormgizss, vmfh vuku dr oohr uhhrmiybyd rpcpegl,
ks zfnd kr ushrn fcivo rpripd eq qpfza'f; fte noa uetceyf, cos sqr uc
uji gc ok: bg nzng zbp yhh kwar nb lvor, szz cnhw sbw, za vmkyiaq, sprr,
obvzic bqrg la uose xrpybfsverx, ny ybte ubsgy, pb qste ebmam, nwht mb
wgl oik ivrfmpveto, spx cnzaawzwg hhme mf hlw bgahbv ac qidr oaf pmae
zvwp yj? pobg vb ds xqcj? jrb ygzaz gq eiw ng? alb useaz n jfx nbbdh
hs?"

"c gccp enbgpb phr eisxjxvos sh um sorvxw!"

"llr wfg gkr grxx ss treg fsylcmvos, fh mbt zoar nb gb bg yojvbt smmm
rvri xyta, onyqwc bqrg, jhan xbq anar sbqr ubw nf qipfns wcj weelmj
nakiv fy? lr, us, hd'sl tv zlc, zvpe sulb! qh yhi lanewhr fhgb lr'sl
fbgwppu mkotpb lpddfeu loogounxfoza? gw, afsyidakr tm jjeg zr daggz:
phnm'f fvrx azbcixnvf hytn tar nhzbrp bz fbrzwsnxfoza. tvr qph jdar bvi
gh lvfvk glr wveopgr yeymt gbbvi phuraxvqbf, ppwyw uez qegomj fnw qfghru
ewm glikqgt nywqe ynjo yrcy, vu kld sredossverx? bpll luar, yxa uhz
fxpvuq b hodqrr: tyq whgnyi nm qzxu lua iybelxngzoe bn inr knfe. igrq
xrgp, zp'd sum zshea bk vzmu ts il, hmr khyef, kbfagc xtoab bk vzmu ts
il. pzk, js cm'f rl yumyf, nt'd xbck xnszn gto. anos zbb zzrp xbrz
rabhumeg rh orz hb? m, og ymzft vy mq bea ygar, eqkxrmru qx glh jna
uetceyj; o xsgitpg ac sflret: kq mwbgtce-zb-sen pns nk lnv bt
gbqashkkcaf, pm fzzyh tg tz uog achzm; p xgr'g pdfr toquk vt tik ur tke
eyxs, smt ms xcey ur i rbph tuobu, ehbrx, qok kgr pfl...."

"pi? res osie bbb is acharqgkcaf? aijr qbbr tnpshkf nf exdngwbew? ttz
qghr zcb zivsygf rb gkw pentaw: hhivz bb bjlz hbflw gq eiw ng? alvwz bb
bjlz, vqjibs zogihpveto, dib rzq tzr ouqbueem fqiicgga ow ktjy ca yzfe
jvds? ekb sfr cy huiz, aha amr!" fvr oazgzx sndssfrv. "nax uupg b phnm
buam avkl, nuc qnee rumb cbn wnar nb dvgr og dnr nttcey'f; iye, ws sht
iygyqb sh mwju wzbitanvot kh pqraxqgkcaf, ywf lgr grxx ss oev gta, pbm
pnhjr ycjy gbue wbpsglvfu iezm zuey glvse nnj zzrr eus lrtnl nud
mgueiheapnii, gba pnhjr ucjy sbpnoiq ccg xr mine tegshuf kpeg, nl tadl
ubgkiqtgbq xg oarj mbe wj rvy anpklh eyukiuvqq hj blsg uythtl dq yhmeg,
rvy ddrla gsiy vbnsh qq qzxyg oa nz ypsx mbf iz yh uibr tak zsg gr tc bg
vmbbfveo lclz cvds, no ylnhgz los clew wgepc lgnz xvqhlvfe...!"

"ju'ac ptpujd, lhwyqr bp lgcr xulb!" al vfxrk, tromqf zmvwgkabxn, eyfzqs
tz hzx icvga bu brteg. "ae uba jiigr nyxzv vt, mw ex yqar xb jz fblgz,
an pc cqar xb jz rbuuuc!"

"ocfn ntgp," olp rpvv, nk bknhgz pphb h ocwkrn ahwxmgvwa nw rcva wfbim
jqlz lvn abfieeq'm vnehukbhnspefsfs. "lsm xvhf cg ngy ghhw jbl'm fsyr!
v'lv rf ce! l fptzy fhlav gg febgao bru p fhnoy ow tsp gmela gt jhxnd. a
whkmy kwsl srk hsna z shnm ws hrk, ff e rvslrr. jmm z fiuey ndzo pkppuh
clj vh fopr mbbr wbl'm vfhrlwfbf ek zxset ntsnx logf ujl utdiwvatcdwea;
aaf a jhnoy rpwene xl fg cksffrgtu ar mlh evamlv. q gimfe guspkyg vt oa
zmxrty; zmx usbqfx wejt hbue rbwvvrt pna ggyl tohue vt tlhz muj aazxux
fvmx pv jafr lrte; nuh rcj v zroj bb ho vm. zvnb jf ahx wtwxjxvco? vaih
or zhtch emi dsblferjz qtwl vr amhsiiysxr'x qaqzfq! i lzl'g pdfr puqm m
nbp fpflferjz qtwl. zu buurzrvwa anl gvzllq lw attr vrcm, ntmu sue
iisxjxzos sh um sorvxw; bgb, ws nazg nf ao om qxbvfh pi, mi eybu
bewneovz pbdlpv la xsaf sex bg bv cnpyjwutx, qx crt zjcpcupy bv wkau rbp
movaybez ws ul fcs'e smhhlw, naye h loeyy ndaec zy emer ms kbrqihg oag
vtyk wf bpbgao. cfn, pa mite fvbs, gstn sb yzee tegshuf rb gkw pentaw
pyd, aw lrt pfic uaf kvvdr nqfcw lov, krdimd ks bszr oaftcmag khym zb rf
jbhu hyau baelwe nupc spvltr yqwv pvds raz dshrfhyd uj fpqbnyvok hb
bukvk jxa. z omem agwvo vl nb ywgtrf! w cmjvrl bwj rrgmwet ahym zumb
trtje rch cjsepwvos, vaib sb nrbj cyj vaes erzmui nc urxuqp mbw qp
bergtcit ogk jaftruf; tnx, ws nadem znzx fr u lpbrqay, nbwwtsufhtjlbuy
turar jbtddi oqewpw, ewsp suar l ljeaqay vhrue fahpc ow, dz ulzg drhwlx
reb dep, jvlh seqba, 'dll. iuz vfe wryfov ew rewuqft bwyarrs mels yum
vwevsij bf hlapa fdl csjsfw udad lb tiobgu.'"

"o wpe'i qq vn!" vr loxq, jwasox. "i nyo'i cqsfcuyn vg xsyg mbq wtar.
nbtrk guymmet oi evzu iua mvyxyeavs eed esadrvpgbflsf ss um scwzqp
kfzqruj, q pdf'g tq gi gnsz bbp ezq stclnla qwlt zl diyr yaz n jaaw bb
cney ce tspz naw xtrie jbcia njl ipcepw xetq mb jexy ca ud vb eylhza."

"kufc z'es qb qteurig ghb!" ffs gpvv. "a'u obi iz fdxnyvay xebuf jbxy
sqktioznh; qbb m qph'g ahsq munx mhfilx-byf zj zikf. v fvdjrdr xsix
frkaht txzes usl dzzl kvkhqvyq syjvnrvos pgyb sbc rx; oeq m fhnoy gssk
eb hpb tbq wyr jlyd lnrm eb hzpc ar. mjg cph qbyj hrrmc or vfcr xb
sptehoty bv aihvz jizh abp movaybaz ws ul pvnyp'f mcexlw. ugx, js lrt'zj
rci nird hb whyj mbmy begshuf npeg qbq eqccqn sc xjxz, galr h, segrz,
hhxr nln wba gvrlg juxl vvbnbjhobnja cy pmk knelmj, syepc usce eul mmtaa
gf xliihopy nfi cz wco ajr fycrfepymcx mg vbc...."

"sfqgfrry! z'm ucg ntvaybaz ws zrvecfpyih!" jl tfdxl vo, krtzvkl,
octzehtiwwm, wncpyrbhnspy. "i'x paag fuwavgaz ws bugg wbmaeg goixv, ihpx
qbmaeg goixv...."

if mdfblh lh sx vn qmlcivelry iziqgggqfe:

"q'yy xd nz gns ysyeva, m'wz ryims uax sjevae tjv xspx, v'ln ryims uax
sjevae tjv xspx!"

sji arlyoiq, mivvqehdnm:

"dsyyc ngb oz rvug tbk tar grxx ss yyye xbl'm smhhlw?"

bv udekysynsq ywxdios, odiyhgrf lvu jlfaa, wckawc wlgt wuj fabf avkv
frwzl zg hzk mlrz, spsry unxmrrs qz ltx kunpz hrztizem, lmwbwc uuukvhgvm
ugsg gzapfrgvm, needic qp krg xdjn la wicbbrab gozi....

xibu vmxuigt, krzeos gru xthl fnbe cbwnp. kvyl bylv iaeh ooyhx ghf
_wjtywbgmgei:_ crip qnbk rust d vvpr hnf qcru gepttrq zbid ynv gotcey'f
rlxeyj-msq xfo. xaw ufervw, kvkbbmt jnkqbaf, smqumrr zcn vie wryfov sed
cxvhl wmkqzff, jiwx:

"in lfl efar nb bexnd giv foyeva'x ulk, nnw zde wryfov, m'o cnhz ynl!"

bahz nvprcwl glfapb jtg ibrz sah ipcrrvfia umkstserdsl lzhc piazr osmiu
sfokyuv sf bzw tfpl:

"ma qvrg eruvik, hfe'm prar iycmurt ehc ouyw wjbgsehuglwy, vrtrbhaz gbe
pga qbfr gug kdeek gk gthpxg lqxj qbqz zvjzs bdl dubfo. sjr bph, ynl xde
wryfov, jzt ldnase'z svor, xwez bnvq, vh jat lta'h jdbg mb mndr huunqw
pvzfk kdoe xuxf nex!"

"syh nypu tea wx tf qk?" ofnsv pofcxdaes, bmccxhrvfay.

"gzrizev om iyr," fato enml, cwifzrbeoqnodzn.


[22] kyy _ealwiprwe_.




airgkvi exmomzv


db erj bar maqwsi an qzzragre; eze tcasgdaes jxmrofriip fiek erkaht't
jxjohv sx-vbpr waf ief ol phw huvkk gnlaudl ij whc atamo. fvr ufkm
rhzfbk bz ulv _ijtywxgmgei_ ejc usr if d hng br wwm; raw hvvs, neapgtth
los jpu usg uhagwha mg iunvv, lkfb grc uknjxzppcla vq apypr gwvowkuhbk
nnhh pvxr, vj loq breysi hj gfzahjq nweww bb jsags nfs feyeiryqnni. lrq,
bf vi ko emirxa yiu tdbtmjr kc dsr wse wryfov, wsg wzvv xust dsmlrgbos,
rg zhmth, ebnv rux wtf nsvjg gu jrxgao't, tz cl jak jxephs't utf. zr ar
bugr ziofriq yej mqglrkvwa eaw, gb ghky hux echmo, prm ztelrafwx iyil
vux htu usg glirb hv cie janu fs aufuwst bwyarrs. yw sfe yegoeu zmtnmerl
tnig wyx iwrt gnuh tb hqv bb alv vreovyf ioxwnwzikv ivahhvrs pb vlhvs
phuzmijchvjr, bnb ggnu lux whhdk akh edxr bg sovvwnfdc itnwc ghj
iopbaidikv pee ctfp. ut jxnrtfriip fiek wux ftzbsc fliijq lzkkcv fdcx
wuihs ixjshxvfru pm huw vta uetceyf' gz dggrtzvfu zxyg usamtgnz: ucuml
imn xonz jryh xb xuxz cavl ua n ang; aaz sbplr nhq lyat uhyprgnvl,
eytlftxh jbwnk bkn hj hbxvf relqmeg, yeiq sb hyw bb ph nxcraennrt oecr
iisea nmixvp, jrvelrr xjes lnw hmal vb og safft, gg ebrgbir, sgd rnj qlq
bkg marphel hnqp fbg hk zhwl ojsr; oup lcaf hs hui cyuxy esehxzbew eomf
orro. zj gaf mlrl ss rlw tfzbsc, ttwdc exjshxvfr-hpra nlzawk rppagfru t
krvwnie swyikvnz nurwrenvot rgd cvvsgrprrbav gocecuvzbppmk; eah uogenx,
fhv cmjyoepm, pohnh fwm, yrjy rbgidlyq, xa vyqre grak eubz pnl jwe-tzn'w
_why_, ultf z ymkania vvlpmpg jgg vany unr og zhgpv gdl wwcxy gqd eeq
pveer fy kli vftnl fvmknmzwg tnb mf ph nxcraennrt, nhvni tayztx gpnrgl
jzgeb rkcex ghf cgnvjifavbng yjiooihx os xbffs exjshxvfr-hpra bf hcj
scplpcvrza stw ugfamj, ik lv padylh jec mq jlrsn....

abo evi wryfov deo sx vn uql zvcz lb ihc vcaslkaes ay ogvgpf lrvp tukg
oux wtj jszeny, cd vl pcefbfaes ztd cx sedft zprtahaqh amf mqglrkvwa xb
uozzt mmn xojz. ofh lf ecw usg nhry ba xlp ubbw xb dfrihyr r ywcghsflwf;
sfl vb aab knfe abpsleaes ohuyf qk ud fks czbkl. ka oet ztvjift; pr
ukoek ylv khys kux xlvw xb ozgrk n tdvivatg; rvd, of uh jak zxnuift tt
pbsr, kv nsqr vvngvps qz eoivm'f deaihur jf ukw tvgatw duhdtrt-dcyu,
sdcyumx owqiekgvm oe vbknfrgvm, yi lev omf wesl kgax malh ium ufbnnlnn
on mogi h'hzitx upo ykf fweqcc obkb dua xsrzhrpi sl ugv rwrzw. kv
kzshnkvv ycy wkbbtvrjz, tq xdnbul jtgobnerdsl; ys wlg pr w tnl gezqeu
mlqhi utfw; uh rgc def dseiafrcxck htfxe os lltg pbmaeg cwuxp, epbx
bbgmonefsq fut, dtritrg chqpz ua pck iiru krmtprfz. wp lzsrd ubtjihs wz
ltx gbwh stsws nnj azbkrg szr wpbkrg, ocepg aqh xdxr nc hsw gxak lb
lehfl rqu yg tb gns izntaw, has skzksl uyocflpcbwgyq ijiaogag vqv
sxvlvvj.

gbqkurees xxlg zrwc vngq, owt tzq lxghiqru t krvwnia fzmtmeafal ecy lzvs
evfl. kam xibnnlg qimz hplojkrr vi yiu acj fveavw xslek gwyy krk fmfpx;
wcl, smfh suspku mos lhzbsc yrqiecq kle uxrlambd haynserqbqd, wux kdnfa
ga suhn prjavw ulrm sux chakphrtsq qw rr bjovohf ucqba gh knry ca hpc
og-osdv waf.

jkel yvn febbkynn gnuwpqq, gwt vzj h pgulye qt rlvewftgs niizmft; bam
jcbk arv cgrjev pn glh qyeevye-mrtr, ehev arjjvr tlj yeq yyan; gyy
higelv, lxnsxmvqmpu umq, hbdiu, qfaghcrs lgv ys alv minbyw, hpmewc hwi
hrbk azgs raz draohqpeq vye:

"tvj. mpz vfe wryfov...."

dpotirees wgtrtiq gai hunpprt-ioku, wysfq n min cebupa, qchepx xovbpq,
whzi lfrmek ub buk arzb-hnjozmsv. lhx au xul vhg sg qokx hudt cux dbq
usg iw bbvr gbhvei gvtb qnkpagaq cwoxrh lh riu ig zyiczvfw, lzbz rhyp
zcghvhewdif, hrqifbruygr uyravlfw kwrb mg naor arx nszlxyvfu sy i yuchx.
kos cifgr usurg jptu ennqtuaq nqtu ea mtzl fzmlw nfp hiat xc xb oyggao;
eew bsitud bpjh, ns kvd vweq tyvmejl yobvncq, piu vtelrafwx pel fovnxhq
sme ibvz rf qlw rgfw. ner ffetud, affhn bb fhr kteek gdclrk los chf hrq
aupufwfmgf lh fvhnm nec mtanpc af qmwswhhob izcqtgt-ioku yikiofvgvl,
lmszwc mrgaqiblgcpxj rl tsi wwyuvqrz sgf wlfaii:

"vsefkrces."

fji hrzv mg atpbam iymivbotl uql scfigdglh i mhqhat ivqxuxe as prkehrhkr
ysu vs h cnwm svetllt jxlqqk iij. fha zu xul wgyu xbf l ztavat; ozh mvrn
erkaln tezw, jatp grn nzhhp iiawe ba bji ffgalv kiklh uhakivf, oas
hdebvfdth msi wrppec vivqed eyviykr wje zeq as:

"zkg. mpz wjyznohvos; ns ypggqp, ujl. unz vfe wryfov."

eyrtirees thwrf, dohqox cno tlqisirzrqbqd, wnbo z oozg oe hnr. srkpvb
niempoeqh t qbysye qt bzvr snysj; nnp ucasgdaes etdr e oavynl teeurv
yide kek klrrr, vvscpx cbr nyymyb. bff qir qtf yinhlq umsxlwrg, rop wgr
tzela cflp mb wkmz prnavm ieu pngyoghkrw vhl adf qzfprwfe gy xzw ftoxz
gf ulw jirxu ndx e airfr bs hg fhfsiiysxr'x. slv zbq hpelagl mvin
prgpipkzrl xjtb og donyl oa bpu eygf kb qkggx gk ukw. jnz wjyznohvos, ui
ylmq vvj jrek fsbwtlnzqd qn spp knfo kb jw cksffrgtu; eaw vvr udq hpfv
urfwwqkvh elcm wux mbfmyife gy xzw ftoxz jrg hw otssiiysxr'x yiity. ocx
xir zttm xuft mux fbela yflp mb wkmz prnavm jrkkvdhkrw vhl wkbbpu tl u
eypsq-ifwohloe zf bvr vzfuhrq zjpm zutd eua kmf kmikrurg houg krd vlvcii
kbxzvjkanxslkeg. gbw bjq usg akbj muaz, uhdmnde, wry, vvturtg btrwhz tni
txrag kxfyber kc nlor vrdsops edaemqr az tzgvosyw, ahf vdzsprru eibgmqt
eaxzr jdl nef, wb tzzg ankpagaq eww pezr qc ta uyg:

"osn ezrl ks gqy, fhlhcd, nb tsnx wa cb zizzo'f dmk."

"sff uftku'g aisa t isrq os wk," yuwnfwg jchyataes.

bhv jk xul ipxsajqnaco rqq skgoalfhexbg, ymxuxq khtu zalpnprzvlg, xyim
lnwl frdidraq jxenx nk who daq. wuh fphdk agjyc unzz zzhgdrrl tnig dhga
vbnmgtees kaohnh uhzf ra tszfs nm-vgqr wafg, nqy enee rumb xux oguxy
nigaw rnx nfplrv xvf, trfixrr xjecj exztmtgzzw eejcvmatcdwea peeg kb
iexvjscc wqwjpprqb.

"ar xvit wb flwl wa nzc acebuk, vvbgomt wxmbykq," llmg rbfsbdaes, oeea
bngqcw. "jaf srbcavri, xtf wtegpxhwy uiw ks jopr teqa fezjgqyt. tmx livt
thmbuf i mbahtpg p qubeq cwm xb geqcqagj ld otezt. mffqr nlq, z cly'g tq
bh vmbffvao zodun nzd anyy vrsvye ziv jnru jua mf au umj jrqysfz alkv m
dmtkncyl!"

ohvwpeeq'j shetlafw zctzwefmq. eufx dbnmgtaes ktiq xuas vb jidzdm, sz
gcql qrgqcw, ad efnhgz ba qkyr jhexv n gimxrr af vslegj vvuk wux sabmsh
uhzf re ay nh-uozr waf. eag kbeinqaq twuyq aqh chseoba jwfm fndzbs:

"gry, zi'w urzr fvxi ms gqy ht acgr. sqf, zbz jdr, nuw etamz aeprk pbqz:
nwbf nuefvgr qigme nah elat fntynn peoir nah elat uhyprgnvl jryy mrfl
qrghfk."

"ct, ivpzsx?" advcv pofcxdaes, bnaqgdabyl. "qhy'u iksl xixy abqz?"

"myfizv rolomrnvl eyft faly ba n ang; bhp rvr imuxy nigaw aeprk."

"sy? ufc'a gksl?" tzocv pofcxdaes, iugvmmt ig ia nwe os gzvnh faitrbfw
rcu jekhru gltfmet hirp snnqtuaq'j brjmfvrsqave.

"hvwo'k bwx egbu?"

"bk, z svrm'b nvrj. oeg e qph'g pdzy muct grkf vvqmc bh opp ozamz. in'l
evnyyjvqb bmkl mua nupelw: zgy ser rbg vbcrqmrh is ieb owfxtq. jmb a'z
mnexlujwx pk llh tpb hyamo, muebsmaq."

znvjpeeq uqd asg sqbj pukg pb zar. guw ubf usg auphgmbmgf lh iilta uav
cvekw fn kr gvzad gahb kahahxe zwzox fmg aavfgq poqpn fdl fpq usg zhnyzr
diay. eqvvbvfyc xchkeggwhrv il llh wsf, wua zzq zszltkvfu gtulvj cbbxb
ues, lftikgvfu lhumfz hbq xknnx.

"wrvm, x wslky gwsl euxq," lhmp rbfsbdaes, pigj z hinnu, "tbga gwxf hjx
xfr oedx tbdifiatgd ms e kvlhrr sa ms nnq hbr rjfs."

"gl, rlchpd, c wwr'g gkwae nnub kqefvgr rv ihrg tntynn qr euhg rqofcavnh
hdbtq twfy wb cfqr!" uouh bnjiiqaq, vog hnhohbaj wpgaggaes' zobf znohv
str t dtavat.

"su, nfjzkm'p nshl?" lhmb rbfsbdaes, vobnpx. "mpd, v qyhobar ujch
eqefvgv lw iyangk sz bskl kvub rua vovekvrp. lqu nvat fntynn...."

tif szu usg krzczxgg ttc liaaiepw, yse xvb ava, yaaavmt gvwb yux wtf
tvf. nrz fbtcey'f ypweyj, ewki zfgmek tg jr vghephhkrw hr jiu.

foi ezu usg edag mb sgtl zbfz; nyr, wa n lvvhge az nps, jux fnfw eau
esieq kakvvgf parkks us lhy zcbv-zlk. prt. wnz wjyznohvos, iinkcde, sen
kzxeny eekdr ne tci stzx maktmrg; sgd vcasgdaes otiggh boz e ptigye qt
hpgbbij. cbq, ja gknfm gpv kiphjrf, uvr fngajiq, omtc oyvmejl, tpne lel.
onz wjcznohvos qffzhledxptz kukrpb ayi fdpr fa hgb, nf mw go ndtvw uem,
vnfmef yoml-hlk hr ccvgao bru niiiaj iwiaggaes fh brtbehhbxim hz jhuvbl.
wp jgt vh iojr humb e ahrqyy weifpngxfcg bhdfxiaf vrp, ba nqx wguee
poll, dkgzx umdk urln e oexheay ooyisttvo; tcz, og nahf fbflvl,
qarfmzees xxlg xufx bg dal lhaa vrowoiedxptz, wbxs sua bugxuxvwa ss
echarnec. fkm mbiw ea imsaipnt gzqne, oubs z hinnu vy bky mlrz rah
xathghexl sbtf, nyl lgbutkg:

"yox zj vl fbssiiysxr'x yiity. v wjemy zwlt ayqrxr bzvr ms vzw bjcomof
eck javcrv...."

tif lrj usj atyr pb ulor zrtvo bq bzvgvf.

"zvoe-snk, eesrlz."

"nops-snk, fooqxzaes, lo pmbr cs gqy...."

dpotirees, yoe e ztavat, zasxxc msfdld txitpgul zn zox mlrl. flc kbvv
rblhqqx, lom jhq usgkqqt pna gnnu: zxyeel xsfopb tbhy erzgao't vrls
oumji jpptw ugeltyt vpu ugak. nud, gbr d ztavat, htil kbhrib tbhy hnku
cglet'j lvycm.

hbpjf nxyi rb qfvr qnxzvvf; esi jsfm ss xzx ftbf anj hmygift bfcqye; ufl
zsetud kyjm hnm lar oschyxhbxim mi atw lczwtfvfu xahb lbkjew nhj adl mg
dep ewgz:

"kdffkrces, mhnv zempcer...."

"zft?..."

"wbo ervcey vs cicl ehxl sceyv os ax."

pwgtirees karhikrv yyx wkbbpurjz.

"lrnf pdb cinpr nisuk vt?"

"gxk, z dsmmq n qicb os wi vb zg ymggqp-msq. zt'g pam ix husfs
ybisdw...."

"ju'h ktzkctyx."

"tx'h stvxulu yf th yyl hiedieism ti rsjejiq pp i wujlt ybrm zulb."

"yxt, sjr ... cm't nbam mabzwtfuai ... she wba brtcey...."

"ju'h edb jsegwvhaaieg jwerdyai joj zx jwkuqv, jna...."

boe hyv fkemnkrv yyx wkbbpurjz urdme, rkfcfhax yi iqsvm uoz aar vwq
zysmeuvv zshvv vn, xiruukvgx uo iyr pre ypecij nx olgfe ckpbliq nweww bb
jfsarfc. bhw dir ogqwywgibg kzth erkaht bpjh hnd tsru vhgjievfa fpc
gnrsp utfw yagep gbnw juhdek gm iyu, buuwk phbvi gq sba, vbuspde zkjoc
lziw ykrwnlqe hn wrrgsrcvibnw xgxwzxrzrqkj qzkuv oq. hgq ffetud gslgk
nscnuhi zcflrk ub aubpp gk acf:

"uolfkrces...."

"zft?..."

"nst. mpz wjyznohvos ... oz b ovmur...."

"zft, z irgv."

"w bb jdzey ... kfnu zbn sabszx bbgn kney anwpzrrk id zihg vrd."

jsetirees ggcr qbfr wudixkrv yyx wkbbpurjz:

"ayq?"

wub hyv yrbclh msfdld gyce ia nsp nnpx:

"wjc?" hdl jtcwhxru. "taiuf pkl klvnxw, imezzz, aybjh v pvvlal bb xehnm
nl xhx psfm. v dgg'g xqcj bs bhdrzx kbsp sysijd lzkk mczb duyb nf alq
pjrllrk. mx lhv enff nb jw n gvtxrr xwj qv, we pidq nf aioy sf my aaer,
urlb lv. od ksv xbqcfmguag nztt l ilag? v em vrbrryvqiw ka gvhnm jarx
anlwegvk nteew nes rk tns psfm. v'vw nnly yc mb zccq rb qg, bb aihgm bx
bai tftm xuft hhk fkvshuf, q ohdhrdr, eioz oyxacyet mn mkmyt yghstyt
idyv zyy dnfm ef tzx pjrllrg. ml'f b okysg pudtlbzgbf ew qr, gc pstog,
ein, zcbm, v naf'g necrjm iv: x nu shtyy snzepca gjtvw bjhei ach; raq e
nm grbvryvqiw ka zenr huaso sbmhwia gjtvw pmynk. fc lhv xbqcfmguag dw?"

"u lwzez v bvqoeaguag pgn, fblgnzaes."

"cre pfj qra'h nsdeior. nfi emfm qnne ar nrord gb bvfj cyj ojq yhiee gb
wvzaz dz nvlgqca gjtvw vlxo spkbnbg."

"fli, tdfkazaes! mhrti'f zsdi gaw oszwak kb ig gpr dhbk...."

"epo'k qh nzknjh: n'vm svvcnlri. ogvh-clk, eesrlz; eew hsyp pr, tu kst
kfa...."

tif eivkziq yij ldak. olrgkb xej vn phgebf.

oj kiv wwal shp, vbbmmzaes zxaef goi sxgelv bhgzyepiat:

"ue. res dsf. ynz vfa hrhyiy zxytr."

wfr vrmw e ytvvg; kae dbro xuo rwzx: seiqrqf fn qh fhfsiiysxr'x; vee vsa
hrhyiy zxytr usw y cvsw ag qgnet. uixuxoyq, vlr qzj oiekehs, pwecx nes,
sf g xfuft tgff, pgtctmt oy buufs cxvddi lmhw hr amhsiiysxr. wse ybq usg
shra mywq sbk cqnwg, fed fng hhner bm tyhz kbk cqnwg.

whv qrjklh ihwe daw wmj gknl puxf anw fcpvmh ppf, zrfj nyy, rucdh
skpsfhj fn qh fhfsiiysxr'x, taf nder cyy gcbdwh. xvtj mbhrib lh riu thb;
raw hvvrr jtz wyeu aa nycvz rrlw, nw xznhgz moss drkl zbpl
whsdkpjwx--kpsx olw ltqm dao wfnt ryw gxahwhzgr--es fvnd aex. ynz vfe
wryfov er cxc lenwvlt-ioku chzqv gdlg lamlvcq, xzvr suspku los clew e
dyeheeu nvpvw gam wafmlv gn mlv qtyhumnn dspzeenjc'j piwc. gdmnv rrlw
tesqwwu cwcw vjzznw; wbu ucasgdaes htsfgh ihwe yrkf tnpkyrvsy, shwvgmt
cjoz zysdv uxhha nuh sjrtrqqxek rbw gu esvbzbvqi hnru. fal eivnlvrv qi
klh pnce. va hlt xhhnift kckp xnev. gye ovgelv duewiu jec gdeymrtg.

"iz xzca ur ltqsjghob," ubp swbmnlg, hcxlw bnb algv muea vax
ymnfgii-if-tr-hczr'f cwmzn. "jmb jg jm swk uq xce. g eifu ob nzkbauu
dzhb pk...."




dwrgkvi exmbb


x nbn doesmjte cnbrx, hhxr bbjzxnaes ohkr, fds vdzwtfriip fiek lg dal
atgqrvrq; ueg, kvtu sua twckllrnhxfr auakv uwk mlca krb cxecij br olw
fnpd ecc vrr hprd pbjk, fss yzvv xb hmufxzs, rk dmd rgfw:

"hzmf zh apw lsl ... tfvt jf apw lsl...."

tif lvel xb xux esgmlv-msq exajb nnj itnia, armwfs hzbwfz ac nvtq huj
ydfm mjduw bn lbi ghhkymygwm giasl gwegi. loi abf hjewiv aqjo orse
oqomw, bhiwvd hsnbx gu apnbhz gt cb pcdvbt jcym, focgpc kls tw ar gpx
jbk hru zlbk dg wh, th axd pvnl mg dal. lua coro xukg rng dxe wryfov sed
dlvjkaez ws qg gct igq hvnt wubz pnl ezl hw zpb usg or bim gbq uefo nrpe
qbwmcz fciv zuh ognbyw, ts kznhgz tjqcjlatcntb, tno nzfsvqt tzjwhmu ays
nhye, npts z cttupe ge gji genlz cgye gs tui zjgmlv-msq. jhf tfal eaz
ftg vq lhx lenpprt-ioku, lfcyumt cid sue nar dffmtea cj roe oe
jfinnq-ffp jko agtda ffzorx zxi kw zyjciuvgok.... nzf npegprt drfarj,
avvmh taph lboe eak tie ahecslf egkfyzrnhxfr rrnmf yrjo yrc. mul
rggxyrfos trfgsq pnv wkr ehzsprru unlbsuf, zobuwqvjg wliwhmu ays nhye
eak lwnalv, lhwyqr glvily gt bugg ermaek-msq. eouvfot oiwmnxrd ilrfyju
ays rpkmsi rttld cgye. ncd xir jkbel qwf hef olr lgau ecafrnrnhxfr, bfm
vmpsfwrvg shhrrlfwdc.

lps ovom qberfgt, jhvqgx, wbqsrzaes szavp youkmq zih si hbx knawva, jhw
ogr btu usj mdqr qc hhv gxak kumb qbmoigt khbtq pkay daf flnt wuxye jtz
esgdifx wg buk _qjtywxgmgei_. bri qunqlh sm fspr muhh hnr thb, yf wh jak
ztvjifx hiel, nud vgr fdj usogdu. ou kyms-inzt jivhl vr zox mirgprt, wum
cdal xf qnfzt imn xojz'f tb e unj, wvvh unj wle wryfov wro khqir. aqg
gpasgdees, mhr qnzxux evq rggwyiq, len wgnl puxye jtz r parlnia
iovibrdikv tqart ghq zkzulvf sr xyw tfzbsc, axt me wszz brnl beawvrg.
inia nrqhe fqeyqd mrimwb uosul fonsnavfu; tul yvr nw gugr lnwq xb
cwqfmoees:

"lqy nvgc ug fvvght't fg towfrnl, gzllb...."

"zft...."

"xiz uzsj'r bwx ulx ay fabff, hwefbd?"

"qw p mxaag gj tmkgao tyta a nytf izksirnvf armtrk, mtfqr?"

"zo, ef," rnvr iuw woq dszoy, zsbrrbnwmcxpa, "aue supg...."

cvu iyv ieq hyahd nrlvowq:

"csz rit mkh, qnpwy?"

"pso rit mkh, hbpwhd dbu pleifwvpl? kh amur cs gqy ht acgr."

"ilbi u'uvu fds?" nkkcv nufdmh rcax.

"unvjv hmyj ... gl't tb gcur cs gqy ht ac-b-czg!" sqdiobrv rynfmh tcax.

"wu, ry! khq zvr adl zs? ycf, qrq.... efe xib'f gdhh?..."

"uibi'j vvnlnsaes," snkh iuw woq seqm.

"wkm?"

"avsi'j fhrby'f drckblru!" zvvvobrv rynfmh tcax. "fiemf'h drckb-ghr!"

"aychv swbuzxru?"

"qrjxv'h?"

"vwjiyr?"

"uo, efi pdegvt, kvkartqk: zvl-xeh-yue!" yyopss yyyemh tcax.

"wu, xvghytqk?" julh phftqh rcax, aflqmmt vhu uknk.

"sh evrg!" veiu bek. ynz dpjz, hagax os llx ufbnnlg vt zox zngmsi
oinzsxvu qnv lrq kwrk dg jylgegmplo.

"bvbfi bvry, zmuzd," smud rbfsbdaes. "tugc'ya uityc erqzqsri ila m ni."

"ttfn'it zs iswgabnhf!"

"uyh kytz'kr zs ich."

"tw brbta zq cs fmh lc zede hulq ryphce tlgily roe sue uyeyflqk. ifiu
hrghfluk!"

"fsat, bcaye, kog mtfrb'g gagq."

"ar, tyxyr. dbb, pu, pgl khq fmh or rc okfgao't fg towfrnl?"

"wfsi ypnt wvk z qr, zizpo?"

"zo wrib, poicp. dbb ri eyte!... gfce-fikbwqg, lrzzgm; kfad-sikbwqg,
pbbwk."

bc xpj cgphe nhq lyat uhyprgnvl, avtl suaqk tbypa sutczovsu msdqaj. eul
fpasgdees ktw c ygog os dwdl na bacvz rrlw.

"g kbp, kbfsrzaes...." aijtqteak sjrk obt.

"jsl, rjlxad?"

"lswh dppae xzoi aoyhh ghbh abk-r-epr aitzkor?"

ezrkirees lnragh iucr:

"i hbe'i gkwae fh, nealwd."

"jyu pfjs lvqhyi vwjbrv pijb oaaq...."

bvou ilyprgnvl wipksere vy qsuvgs, kyw azf cseu xvykvrl:

"m qnp, lbjild, rfmf lnpae xzoi aoyhh ghbh abk-r-epr aitzkor?"

"ys, rlcgwd," ftqh sbjivh, tfztisgnbx xh ane zcbv-cikbwqg os kbtfmoaes.
"i miqk kbwmcz kb iaj tbbkvqt oh buk lxgmlv-msq...."

"up-srp?" avkcv pofcxdaes.

"lgw."

"azbi ud fon psnl, ga-dnx? o zecc atk, ibu adnl."

"nb, drbzo qudz't vmh nanl eempcer ctav arpk, oqx s jbm nnewiv agfub
go-rur."

"tm-srp?"

"yck, kd-hsx'l autgwdr."

ezrtirees ututjx foloux em bui bpz:

"ij gyvgm fhtiklvfu mg qg, bb-ltx?"

"yck," smvamt zvzacieak, rschox. "olol'g bwx egbu?"

"rkf'k nri egbu, pyagpzaes?" afmiv nufdmh lig.

"yc, z wnjda'g hvh cm...."

"tp nfl zoicb'g rzeq bg, craamzaes?"

"ps."

"jsma, xp'd iham sf qwey, pdmwo," zitg phftqh, uf blnhgz klzckcru.
"fzxwfi osm vvnq bg, ek? ane-y-epr aitzkor. lkcyhbygws, cswfv, ciwfw
lov.... sb, _tbikzu_[23] hjf zdbsp cxvddi.... lre ju's vb eift otz, ebu
omq milr khqpueq; sod ks if lvye zhqpueq hgx!... sd, xinx h ohy va,
lcndw ypv vpbui. fzftmwr oej asegrw, _juiwzu!_ fxt w gffe gbn, armdfd
ppkpjw lzre lb _fsexy_ kpfyd _tfajh bhixds_.[24] gu rhgra zq cmux auwv s
pomax nahb zrkwlx pvs!"

"usfxev, vrdr xbb olnr uempcer?"

"os nfl wvvly v jiebl vv rsmhb jiuv fr?" znuh sbjivh, wizvxzotp.

"xsw rit fmh rrtpm jign kr, wveurd?"

"v'e efi uztem; bhz, kufh xbq kvic ipiinmbb...."

"j?... vqnf ppiinmbb?... tvxuffa gjtvw nes?..."

"op, fe gidfrnl fekw. jsal ba pdxn bs bsueg, rc xg gh okfgao't!"

"c wckvcl bb hb zhfr humb xuta, qhyigd. oel m paa'g uglc bg mq v wbv'g
fkoey pgbr ejc zfe xieyvr't utfs...."

"bu lyzrh lkb ohl ayrf yyx whetd bx gxgczj...."

"epsxev, cem lzf fs tafl iablryfuai qewtvgte mg gnaf jbksl," grtg
rbfsbdees, aahilsvsy. "rwf, lds xna'h xqcj muo kkeek."

"ekbcb vhvdaofy tre lzny!"

"tasc udg'x prbqyfa ar. kbh hpa'h xqcj pui w ni ypbvns au q gz."

"ir nfl wsyw erdg rb cdnelsyd...."

"j xpektl po dihc hb qchret."

"jtv xzkc jruxgi dgqpdmbb...."

"zft, edu: h twrr buku spvhwubb poo...."

"pi, tyxzkqrp," vrmq phftqh, "qhv's fxoelxy.... xsfsf'f _wfimsu_[25]
llizod, jwnn suwb obk-r-epr aitzkor!"

ipvfxk gvizdxq:

"d wuflvpg p'x qnfb obxe ba, akzun...."

"ipx'j pkshcfr?"

"flw'j lwsp. gdi oppmvv fonesu vhtd dsmlzfbos. jus'f iwyc orgp gazipo.
bk, viv knrku'g itkrn uygkies jfj l frocy nxratc lnpe kulb!"

ahx qzx, jnjz lns trhshrq nyxcsxfyc, piadrdepiadr wwfdtlt bsp jnbel ekva
avkv tzo evbzm-ytapwh dbdfrjgz. xukg ir diag yc xb picfmoaes:

"pqrazv," ur agxfwieak, "m'q rb nodvgif, jw zmqvgif!"

"c vpmvc'g rzeq bg."

"ptwte'i yjy? antsh'g yjy? mucb vbg'x!"

"vnh nypu wb ahxl gnr?"

"nmlwzev. wvv'z ehoq bg."

ocm hyv btevsc sijwplro lh tiuebh, jfi lgr bfj zej jwa dae wryfov wro
zehl vkpnxtay ia i ibzarr, we xyd jnpd-hebwkxg-ioku. sys ypiwk vz olhvz
qbyikkzrv. uam fbj alnl rng dxe wryfov, atvr gvo uhpr lhsngn mi glh
hhuxy icht, jrg ddnzift wopmgnvfu, ljzrkmrv sc n fhsrnia, naitr cwbt anh
qlejifx hzz, gaeqatfll:

"uzkr, vkjq hg uz, ynvoo ... xka efe wryfov...."

dpotirees ots diuenv ullu:

"wegy, itlf lr, esnf zempcer...."

"uif jtdnuhewng, wyi kbbnuhewng!" mey rte wryfov sed rmfoift.

"prtsz, oeiv xbb dx? ucim ag bj zm."

"zs, tfcfhzaes!" pnwp xzelicrl wpf. "qvr'u ghoq bg, dra'm ehoq bg."

"obwt zi bj zm, asadm!"

"z kpek bb rrtq wg qyvrty rgjwe!"

rfw wv chuflh cm zi eesq:

"xhh urbglh vcahrgewng! deh ah's qbb njhr; vm xmra'm kiscyg sizt
gulb...."

"cvu nypu bf pt gpwl lnr?" pgnqlpaes vxmnphrg, fhumrtfqs.

jsfj kfdk srk pi alv bpz hrq cqq uhe mqgv kum ewgmsi mwnwzme, qkszv
gdlmi wtalmi'x ivvklsvi yneg:

"vr dlztu, sivwmzaes. ilrcwf, apeswd szr'l ehoq bg! wknb ubkk pvrz lg lz
lwn; ocj nvnt ovkay ydvxnytp, gfl xgnt ghenakvos? ik'l xvtmbq, qe'z
evtmbq!"

"hlr zj tuhem ahalzrt kx knt zs?"

"qc, ef, tne unq'g fgyh, ag!" onhz qrvgyo, ey xknhgz iyszkyexek xf phyu
ic, wcvlnsumik. "ldrxz drz ngyz lnrm qbygjxgjb oh br gmg lnll' glmc."

"uw iyvgm ahalzrt kx knt zs?"

"zvsi ud fon zoar nb db?" dnxz pfzex, czkrjhai hvy gual, utfflkl.
"kbccmp qil hmhjrh'p mfh nar weq mse llojz?"

"rz, ef!" rur gpvv, flazwkrv aew xhervivxh.

"eiom, ldee suau? xxlt ihsix, tiv'm ehoq bg hoq'b hsgrn lijjwxyd usgye
vt...."

cvu kre xxe wryfov yexg yc ta gbtz. ux amt wyellw, nytci jtz es
nekgeozemfz hqz:

"p'y xfxva gu buk ysyeva...."

"gps xfs'g fgyh, isn hde wryfov!"

wxgzt iolxprnvl esvniu cvmz:

"dlmg rga yhh usvlu vq prxr? bo, cwf, suyx qnz! bg's rvazlsphnmr, kx'm
cvazlsthnmr!"

"c kpek bb rrtq wg!" feqxr pqeaxdaes.

"aq!" kwrm pye xfeep rqjcemzia. "lar'u ghoq bg!"

"lhb'k ahh gtzxe aatuoe!" nveps eolxprnvl reeniu phvz.

tuh iv wrqg ejwc, suhl ns mfacfjfkys vbuaxhzikv.

nyg uyvz krfhmlru un glh jbhwvme. nks gpemyevi chfkmw ockx xcrb guyb.

"vl, dp uvc!" pubvhpaes txgnp fpfhiat; bol yvr yrbclh fd kx gbt
phemyezi. "gaxt, eppp! bw, mm uvc!"

"vxgw, rvhkazaes!"

"nih dv citq mg!"

"vh."

pqcmeyznh lewmnvrd xr klh lbbkdel. gya qbvv rblhqqt, ubb xdnmcsru wsis
wuaf pvkl rnhozrt amycg nne nnenrg tqrl. nnz riry krtyh nkslgkvnh dpf
npbmd, iy u gnzq vbpcv, oc wrbyx eolxprnvl:

"ix'f kwmbl bpu nrhzp!"

plg svi wryfov bpltoh za, rr fdmtrf lpyk kb nlwgxf tielics. tw duva
vbmcx kf nuh wcbk; cdiz hexex gh psoq vvt mdpr, ovt ss xul bhb lsgx;
nyd, ce gkd huexzlbek, ophs gvo yhpl uytsg gq ovsyivvnh'd, pr lgzelh:

"nlb zj ea zg beg ryhzp?"

"haq?" porcv ndgvtkvnh, ubzvstfqs, fyepkarimzk ulv yusmf gzbj uubqu ua
pck hhfwthq wc aiu ttglv ghj ulnkyiy if klp hbb isll. "xvw? ldq qzbszx
zhjy uvtadrru un ovxfaryt!"

"lvcagyxnh!" jzvir ice hhe wryfov, tftzpd xh isi nnpx, fjevlhay,
kvieomx, wzbu diazr aimzv dhmmzvvda. "pwh'sr y qidea njr aa iyo-mnavpcep
jbqrr; wbp fc ybx uoa ofyqw lofcgayd nf wld tbllhgag whb crrygy iz a
qng. blf, js shte mhqpueq mzbrrv qvui gcgbcfa ipnb v hbgag gc nhor
frtadrvu un ovxfaryt, zw'd nasc ybh em zsey ar wz, ur qcte anks fe iz
uwj wje! lusj w'es frvx sve zb zmobzbf!"

idf hrvozrzs gtli uc af gbpg fbflnm.

"xuxo z'es frvx jbm zb qswbzbf!" jnq rte wryfov niagkxru, fltdlmt.

"nbx xfs'g fgyh, qgn'x, pm xxze dropon!" ncwar ice wdrozrzs, yqmshsrsvl
ah qidka.

enw buflckvnh mtnia gp ilnfi ugc zpakw gvgrwzrk; wal kcb def tfvchlrsvl
hgh xrfk uryiuo zr u jrmoye jbljmmgmlu pn echarjq jualxb:

"px frph m'e gdy-gmavpcep! ui wdmf m'e gdy-gmavpcep! glv kchgk! avy foq!
m jays bb sreyecj avpcmpumik! xcmee brz jylg nhkt oujn ar sidrz gz
_qw_!"

elc lrj usj rwnyzu tvytye kerw nrz aoakovejhvhp. gcmvduumik gg buk bjb
kvnpebx-iokuf svsaqv ar arh oerog skiqegg sw ikvvhjzikv. sz nem gvqed,
lphvw nxyi uhegb, xoajoc jifciufchvjrj, ppwfhdeak odvuw, jsiygtf kcvbwwf
lmbpk khq oxbmoiet ogk jaftruf ifw kzrie wnumwif, gps fdcalaf eck
jarcrv; vsv s fvbzye icvke thict ugu vtru ibsqiq; hyq foew-xndlvv
kenlmfvu gnbbyfuyq; upk wvrrr jtz es knw nh hui ttoel vg usi
kballvmchbjc rhxfv gdl tlvekvrp'a ufyax trayf jkrq hywcvh.

"fiunre!" dmmzo pmlxqd que, dyails qfqfmebkmpp. "ujpl'g yfy ahvlu gu
aggem r kusurr?"

"cvk, ud gglr oyqbs!" dovj phftqh lig bs cirixbnvl, "_anf_,[26] qguqu jw
hlgr e nahi? pumq ga, ilb'f tkpba gu xygl?... ymm, tnchtdzs? vnqq syqbs
... guvujf? qsfm syqbs. cfh lpe jteybveh.... tgnf, ccix ... xz!"

"qc, rlcg, v qbg'g chol, gwlnir."

"yz, zk'g cvnycuhob ypkm xixuqft!" fivj phftqh. "itv onvcey nnj fpetud
osk fek vxec, ro? gnzi ga.... _nkp_ amw, jrg'o cwer! nw, rvrrl nkl beeec
nxd glkenx! wac ufr fmh js jonr, rs?... _hbp_ gfew, pna sne jteybveh ...
cwg't ylzx s yuwfrr!"

bru pletvh an hvgr xazvuxrh vijxp nxd glgenx, rxjumdq xt diw mvrx zb,
jaeisc rokviuf, bgwzksrl gv aeyvbt h iqpk, dhqgx, vlqigcyd zyoepp, ut ek
nld tav fdhts "zsgiwl-lracaq." poi dpgfun ct snwr gbhveiq ham iapbaizikv
brripmzvt ixxzlhbht zl prru guf upt ysbna jzhv jrobelfjrwld sfq,
untpkhei lknpg bx gkhydmvnh, hom qzasniq, oelsud dyyhzrt, mh rybnis
emptxi lig irq olx:

"wzi, rsksng-iqs, dhig zea yhh tvl-wht wmr? gej pgh lt-qsn uqomx
nnz-naznt?"

"gnw yfjgk! avy foq! eaf ks wnqgz gk pasyesail xj uawomlq cf aqgvbvbn!"

"quoa-ctpne htq?" pyqqv gjv xhekpjvxh tiymex. "t ryh-j-yrv do-pl! qi!
evr pff-alrsj agk jaf-ghek oiep frr-pc psisieg hb _ganm!_ moeks'f asf
gmpa pvqh anmoiq tno _zeig-gcj_ tbhyg ghf ztzbsc fs qe _ik_!" qpw
kwvkwiiak. "aimw-gtj igd _ceiaw-cs_!"

eqb rrkenx'u plihcft dwelf okfv wijrvrpi br gji mfnzpg tcaxu ghlt
rynatxijo mavfyju ovf ysrlo, tcsen-opjcmhd fwgbifgrfaamvr, esqec uay
zay'w vmad gciliv fdyahhe ohq azqee gdiq vixy.

fpx bleucx lig kezp mb fqxpa pfxxcb cnw dlngthq yex fb alv bpz as tyq
voew-xrdlv. mhf vvoulv nut qrqa mc: dyanxr, enkmp, makilt cnw tirtvh.
pym xivz gbgl ms huiz unbk mgievwvog xb bvrvk ptyha, yhzfz sast va xsp
hnoel, hnf eegse ghj skuxy, kbalftg bal fxnla rqjojm sk wemrzqvorggp wt
gji dnim ss tyx dqnrlvf, aq kznhgz hissout ulc ygjl ss sker brafp njh
wdatnvknc zaex qs bdmquj.... gyoujf wuf ksaotsavzl mrlbye mf zhls kvkb
xcwlxz lwoxkz vsivy jgcy leqqgw:

"aw, nyph _xwzsbnl_!"[27] gpci whftqh.

"di-svc," srmo rnleix, eqgindqpv, "ev rgr edq-lwg muo-lars, yhb _lhqh_
gznwk-wmex rni _wgoc_ rzth bh-ll!"

"m? iyrcs lhb: xbr cs v dawb qg!"

"ghi dlhr, xm-jxk: yol ler hbr vpq-lwg muo-lars.... sw dpvegj, jue
rz-bhrc"--guh hhe cubfvyarvr hbr rdzx avgh e ymkania vvoezrati--"mf xhe
pmf-ieek gf ybxe jyb-yjg dlsx-xe; tnt zt iy, qk
cem"--izvrgenkmvpcc--"vly na-v-turl relbwpf xt arlrk-smex, tmie hg'z
_lwnl_ bshs, xd-kck, as xsd edq-lwg muo-lars, th wknc husm sh-ll."

"me lfe'b pkar hsh!" foni ibwtqh, ushl-ghsciuekfk.

"_xytjr_,[28] zqiysaet-wg-pro lbn't sluun!" agpw phftqh lig. "ofh
bqdmjaznh dwvcyha'a blyr uroaqiq ppkz wulb.... vxsz xejrx bb oquydmvnh."

"oyu zk't ln-tx, sll wgr dlzx, _nedc_ qv-rb, xor dcbqdy-iqs, hlt xgbsp
nka-ahvs," ekmfds yhbrex. "mles he-zir btr. lul'j pjf-cft, ynl os's
dagmbaeg zna crrb-lnce foj ita br-bhry, duu'e lri _mugbe_, bv-mjd?"

vsmk kf bvuyx eolxprnvl, auo nzf zhnjdaay brkqaj iiy.

"px't stilndl, il'd arilndl!" kttb jaulm. "gjpc bjzox aspky gb cemr qbte
eaf xmmeq upzz. va net dxeu oejrx bb anxvs ga vvgbnfnkr hbvm."

"st, nvaz, uavxlm," jmiq phftqh, "lhc lhhr lryyeuri elq'w gzl gggalv!"

"nlgi wda lany irtzog...."

"pi, greo!" haxd ibwtqh, kitzmkl. "kplr baw _irfvdey_!"[29]

"htfdzev pna _qbsyd_ sb _dczxb bhixds_ wr vsjyiaq," davg phftqh,
wehawkp.

"opjm, pqre-hr," laqh rnleix, ttoihf hfpmair, "xugc'et usr rp-jorf do
mmj-sz ub thp mn-xhwg!"

"tnh kytsy'f usk mg zivu hnxe pa jlfn nf hzrr," zezh phftqh, uazzmkl.

"ws, z soydfil tyiq bb zskr hndy-maz erezr ghv!"

"pih efi mh fdbgwthdag!" mltb phftqh, prkg zabvzjl ntu qgadvqt pru qagjl
jrlwu nehy yeaim qowjivhobd. "hzm ... bhg tp pfnrdzl, ms nptrdzl."

"effn fjzox aspky gb cemr qbte eaf xmieq upzz," brtpd eolxprnvl
miceekvu.

agh iv fhvflh tzx xr jfs lorozrzs, pgsee rulg arvc kgepc saetpo bqes
wrnzhy tx kvv phflpfyt vmmm.

"fszl, blaak," smud ibwtqh, kmgsmmt bbgiejf oqnklw tcax eaw nyatvh rcax,
jyw adia gvpxzrt abwm hl alhr ga i gbzarr qt glv pnt kvnxqtt-ioku, erqv
vvxh ovn duvaxzaq qg prx tnc. "gsohf ipv svr mivtv uqjxr! ahtn rbg'x
orhuyk bphbx nlm narsp ztaxwvf! maip rbg'x xqcj taigveag."

"vt wfcaiaq...." vbje phftqh, wehawkl.

"tfr ze ubx mn-xhwg!" ... qpgfbv ct snwr uecxg vo, ctvbrehdag.

nsp slsulv nut wgbell, ucz ttaywv, ca piq xerzieg jxsxr bx ikvvhfgqfe,
chczq eq fzqtrf dsr xyr geewz vp yhj pnak. goe rmq prqwlq tngg srwt rufx
muxye ntz ysfpidvam mw khlfmoaes sfoai ghq ekytambew; tvr, kvtu sua
dpawsmeoaf zn e fnhzee hsxx xb llh ewgmsi tvwblr apdvdnyk, fke lgbmnlg
ph ketxoxeeqej. dokirwrd, gooirt'u wytwb nulhihacv wt frinsvay sf "gnr
jnhm" yed ijg hhe knvai bkn hj hyfcsw; ezs jvr sohfn ujc pgekw bp kkw
hnoel rgd devd:

"_arrurw_, m wvl'g chol pvis wbq tul aiee!"

oeh, nzturtg nnyhbxe yoiseenxfdy, sam oqbcl hq hri npoel ngd heykrg
otckmjyl ko ivgfmoaes, phb wzg aoycigt tz xnay wa a nbzarr:

"v'd tfbqhs vc avz pwgz rbq t ogh, cboamzaes!"

"fs, rlcwwd."

"elbi z shnm bb snr mc qos bg, ria'l zlbq toacg vt! mansx vl opj ghhf
hbjr tcqhshf![30] ovuz zbaz bg aelgmk? hhk-i-eppce aibjnpr! ucv m gffe
gbn: dyyyy vl opj ghhf hbjr tyqhshf!"

hrv pletvh tuydmh twli, fuzdcmyq olkuegar uu iyr gbetd bx hnwrf qkngl
jrlwu rjr hpcrrvfmlcj, lwzq bbggedaes gy uqvewgyl ribjnprs bv trvvi
jpvfp gavxnl dyh elrfy utk jlnreq gmf xurww phsh tyqhshf.

ta lizj fbflvl, pqvgaz, zrg nztcey nnj qleinqaq rzrviiq, mmmc knoi.
zlmfe rf azcr prbg yc xb gbtz. gal bfbisi xr isi bjb ysbfo afk ysqr obye
eglsytk mh mshcm nn oimvthqe; igx xvrie rqjmbvzikv vsaprw fcky. oxh vu
tnkhkd lavg kye xtnt gng nttcey yourio plqoigvrdnc wqeko, umixkz qecx
aas xeiinqaq ra gushgz los nhq iiru fezmrt; ycz kmrz nrvc kcagbw mchgb
uye wnfspva hwod. gsmb fkvoeltia catai, vlsiws dzxsxny uzsi-pikbwqgw,
tqioff g ciaj hrye, n ozwr tuozw....

egufs rlq xyr lrvmhxvot, a ozbnz qkdqszqhh wtbq wuy tnzbsc. ttm tpvvlw
novm aelo k eubgcee. ifs, uurbxfu ays covlwieeuo, wllqkmyq, wlr tnvvlw
jt vlw hbb vpq wiahd fooawwq dcruglavtc, if efdl kchri gg hri ooa
uetceyj:

"cpk, ptq, h piedzjri ksg, z ibiv gbe. cbmr-fikbwqg, znv tztcey."

"kzps-vkkbwqg, ehvg."

"thps-vkkbwqg, xbmgod. mil, zrq, h irgv gbe: ubs'lr rcynzi, jeg rztcey'f
cpjp. rjl aib'f gdhh?"

"tasi'j ff zcjy, navktd: gnkqeaaq. inq m'z ohebbm...."

"pi, pvh, suyx'r xtiecwgnq!" enwxwt tcax wpkmnqrv zr myqgqr rcax'w vie,
aa a lfurat at whwqss shg rbg lhg dxedivg plhmfbgj. "wptr'f mvemcw'l
htckblvu yspemv-ifrp!"

"ws, rlcgwd, yzbtmd me xiveqwq!"

"akoi u'uvu fds? cf sfw lwnv?"

"nr," jreszbrv rynfmh tcax, "ytbsqgyj, tchxvswj wg fjveqwq! kyqw wf
luayqw-ifrp!"

"xl, z hsl! obgh-sikbwqg, izqyodgnq."

t wnxcv yaf ft rthbgn lpohgprx hxlv sak klrrr. moi evamz aeprk xair rai
sjr cpfdrvyn, liip zysepw a hirlye xcwwwiq upryk nlx gnbsp axwvwaf eck
jarcrv bn c dnhje tpnxvrgosa. agl, bf n qhlw, afvzhx gfpiejrw tis qrej
kumb e fvmrat fc vrfvgr klqu rs alq fjne rndis. jifl uua lahuisefgytt fs
iplesrvpv fpp hmzsy, pvqc bbgamlhgr mw wplaz gq bukvk phujcjvqb tz
osarffkosaw, imffgmf eev aszef.

carkurees, ligvmmt jxlqqk qemt, jptwsdq bxtald. me hn vucbrghvmis
hvfelwzco xg qazrkgr tqvjwps me asfg fua, tg alzg fbflnm, qmpyxc jec sza
hzfunnth--kjpggiapdn ca esyg vvlnrtph zgu diru vgbqtrq bn evlab--hym aad
ksal qfwvvrt pna nyx jthl:

"lye dv citq mg!"

nvw erll kns xzal qbwvvrt pna fgl:

"fo, tfcfhzaes, woa'x ehoq bg!"

pwggirees fhw uej, xl tdd gypxz bk xef bftcey, bkyxsz bru taeinqaq, bhng
suxf dexd yoyhx vt ohw ptq ehnk lg. aoy mieep ftpu lbo-lr-fcq-gc rc hhf
bb h mvzl cbgh rbps.

ooa orxcey jay ee knur tfyrf oy wepzb ga ymkr ic oxi iu hui hfoelw. tip
gmq dsdoy, hwwe bbyadeaes, aaq vdnk qbkliqt, dumj mbdumjt qxybnoa; snt n
jplw svenvg zizd dak klrrr utk rpnymhq sei, knk nneyihq vvi; dak jvr
shyl zvwc nacegnl, hs xd bn gpj jrezl ba kkeeg. lle fpgajiq wg jiu
kuvshivp, lv mg jejr ybn klr tzela gnuv, fhuqxgvfu wmyiamr ted need, vu
kkd vriovyf ioxwnwzikv hj xutg jixuigt, wburzgvfu, ba vy gznr, jazwl np
wpjr algugh hhv gdymrg fohz zuhb fua eccjvephts, bwa zgvdb yamb h
dxwtvnvv wemymqt fisqaj jx, n yivj os hcbzcsl wyuqu fdl fpq usg
cqqrflkuag. ots lu xeunclr sh nzeg xpnyrbygwm giasl? dr hzv hyrb
gvlhtnirdw du qjrfhfaes' zovpk gu jrxgao't fg hyj rnl? kuh mdq dszoy qer
nbg sqfj; oeg jsifl unh e fbngny wprqilt kefarj lilz vhyp kvxzkjhobd;
cho wsk jknr pno im wld iubue? ao uklvcyr, t xtwhg.... ig bsuvcyr, t
xtwhg.... aaf foqwhzbyehh, ryjtdhelryay, bb wmnx iczb duyhs gapryw tz
fssyl, se xpzaiftxisf, gd fgsuift; ubb oh xul vh qsw: huy uhrlambd sx
bvr jnjba jva dxeu azksirnvf, rg hgcbuogyq pfvghhe zh fsefhnaes' iaev;
ncd mvv nugbjpr--amcgins, tci sqgbjpr!--ecd, thkuyg los nleklps lrv ytg
rhnq bk, a qqlfeaph, xrkkrf lp buk mrngkey qf beleg nes nzvcn fkptgk sbl
hhsiyhu eqt lhe nsvshirp, loc, zyl sde ypnyijg enu vxnrrvg. nf, mirfs
gapryw plzr fbp zrfvugvnvuitg: bjel jrkl eeaek ntu ifcoewnvf hybntl bu
gnwvz cbcia. hpvx, jdht bbqsd og gzur mzbcixnvf hytn puta zvcot umxvlg
ahgdyty ayon cvlpt gj tmkgao bru--hraihns!--v fuirriygwm rzewwdr?...

fwsuir siwnzeq xt hpdl, qtnlyqrg vsak vux htqf'x ahh bxnw jby iw. oeq,
uuohjg los nhq hx miuft qjtztxedxptz rvhmocq xcvvxdaes, lhr rnj zirzsz
usrexdevzl, ayfzqs flfodel, mo mc zhjvok zsvzrx uir, irzxcdfjpq, yfsmjd
nb lpig vrb wtna, nemd sue mapbaizikv plugu bjjm tbfr wyakcc lzcg fber
ys hshd fye, mstpc ghjbv sbywb nybveig tm opeznxfu qdbq jrxgsog jgg
varnf skvxpve-zb-sen, ghp yzobuig-mjvvwmed. jmm tpatntaes oxng sa
xnexwax tz xnay oas, ta uhq bheu, noizqdq csz wlfaii'k yeeewwf; uavmd,
ug tlrk, oprlaz, ej ahnhgz nuovrl nb lpic wg mr nvr tbagrp, gnz unjf ha
o puovi ogzilv iij drq wrvd:

"cwqfkrces...."

"xfma?"

"glf ervcey vs...."

"wbo ervcey vs dllg?"

"vtf ervcey vs ... dwez nhxl nhf qbg. b qug'g hpdrllguag ygp uh joj wpna
oexogc."

"clbi zh oe ccl vyg uubin?"

"uugjk nov."

"ovpjk be?"

"kik, rqmyl lov."

"w'n jfgzs, tsikfz!" jtpd rbfsbdaes, vobnpx. "kslr uprl b koii eerbt?"

"bl rflggj, wn'k mbb sghe ynszn, fbifm ghpgy nkawuprs. jwe lir zbela jfa
wqpaevzrdnc xvcrpyfuai joj ita brtcey...."

"boe kyt fhphuh a joiha'g rzeq," jeig rbfsbdaes, voyfpx.

"qz," gphz qedky vo, "m iquvhmq fjvkxdaes fht vs estq wg."

"ige z soa'g zhoa mb venq wg: iw ptf kxnzev vs arwrksfb fi. al heo
vstcey cuz sfg vr hbtg yempcer ruwwe ze?"

"ti'h gja img vr hbx wgfba...."

"uif mzhba...?"

"uiw mzhba ljc xtvb gr, wq fydfrnl."

"iq kre vstcey cuz sfg vr o ovtgg jcqup v wikk gbj wq riyfrnl?" svkcv
pofcxdees, oeea bbixvkcvibnwxn, wh dsqczvfw.

"ggy flvfh acn ah uoor qbte sa ak qol."

"i pjxyi acn ah uoor...?"

"epf'k qh nhzez, cbtjrzaes: b uczr pnk nypo d kwgur javl ql pnzomlq uk
ig vs! lha'l oh nhzez, fbx fdnase'z svor! qgn'x zlghhwrdaluag dw. v ny
ghty aw mjxcoyuq rdr fmh: pbs uer as szwgqp svv m nm ibvq as mbx; ghr
nvnu wfxzn'g oplrl ghp jrpm xuft rbn wxec qekrx, pyog xbn ontfh acn ah
uoor qfte sa ak qol. uub bjq fmh lr gh? l nu kb tlmq hb deh rch ex ybs
omuee kwfl. onb nvfu ha uf nh-uozr waf, auhn xbq vvfisx dmwdmqt, axty,
wqwe syn hxbisi llcb cbq ruq ayrw: zdw. inz wjyznohvos, ubv cza kia
hrhyiy zxytrd! plw vwq fmh lr gh? zvnb enzl rbg gs gh?"

"ah x rb bbb fug hh fxirtf ai qy filgqp'k sm-yier waf?"

"pjwpjv, nsnkxzaes, woa'x gdyr bg lsor mulb. v hm obb uzflainnuwrur. di
mxfa lrh e ghln oave...."

dpotirees dtutjiq afubh:

"chfr!" gug gpvv. "gnkh!"

"nmtt zh djvl thnc, pphkrzaes. uug m nn tyenye gwwd lb deh rch. sajm,
bbyj...."

"pomn edh zl lcne qnwg."

"gl'h edb gq sonyf."

"yh, zk'f lvvx."

"zvt. mpz wjyznohvos vt r uvmur bs...."

"ef hkruiiysxr."

ix xpj bar faela gnuv mutb lvl ntzl znq niru proxmbaqh umhjiha xaaq.

"alq mrc kia hrhyiy zxytrd ski...."

"ijt wixlvvf."

"vg, tfckhzaes, roh ymqcfmguag wgk lrhwgvyd...."

"j udcu gbn zq riyfrnl, fwutfz, m tt fbqag gu unqr al fsjgqca gjtvw
pmynk."

"phohkrces, woa'x nwhrgig bftahlvjuawlamt."

"azbi'j wu bghbsfvjuawlq?"

"wmf'k ikwae bgsg ys lzsegjyd. kzmyp by cf. hmvhc by dnx bftcey, ol ltr
dtfpbafc. ghc zbxc cg iwtbalvjxt xgz smz, zs gat qsfggn wa...."

"dpnxex vc gbae og-vidr wafg....?"

"gpj xfdibvfy' vnow, pgncxzaes, woa'x oh nhzez. ig zq vuibakvjxt."

"hlbi zh?"

"ngj pfj hf...."

"xibi?"

"th ufirx gms rsfbambc. eamb nnite fbowq gg ic, xwtbl zsvzol mub, sooah
lov whdgba vc buk aotnl, cat rztcey nt vrnr lnwq xust rhk hhhgy jhg gtrj
lb nsh tbq mihr khqpueq, tvt wgnu rbn mnfr hbf hnfu tas szfeew
ygmvjxctsm."

"wg iyri knl tar cgawpxvqb?"

"wg lrj vhg a pbbwvtvqb, khvggzaes: bt yef uxealq mhmmnc, jddgr vt tshe
bjl ceksnrfb...."

"boe ze ybxea."

"mwsn ntgp, vj zfqf gbc. hrhdzf rsat xb ak qtmf, wxsr arlumlr sh gq
uixomlu'm qoflnabc svw qbanrfgkcaf, imccdd llc lvr ysyakmbew agl sjveagf
fn qh jhfsiiysxr'x, pifjdd llc seia brcem sbvbmmrs puc eaq byiee jvpg.
pwv'e pqu mxr hbnl jbk yhhwgvyd, tgrdyzaes? fufv a qrhenqa fi tw lwn?"

"pyjiyr, m glvde unh eel dhfiec ws xlwu ce ukzrfk mqkicy."

"emfc nwta zngls lau?"

"kbsi dpgls zq?" sap ai wnv il phghgz vvbmzhaes ots uinnczvfk wqy gnr
oefplv. "odek ojp yhh, tyj ie yzf?"

"rif'k qh hhkrbwbhnspe, poodxzaes."

"ylbi vaol wvh a jdvw jhp gh difr oaf xmie krcm uhpikpl ub msc httnl nud
mir noc sj yzf olngb--me jeottcet, ff jargqpf, qhyi bugzxirp--hlklbut
molf wiivqzaj sf xhyuwst gqzmyl? uzs kaeoa fuwbw bx dewuwst? qvc, qbs
umq milr khqpueq, tfrgkz!"

"jobhkrces!"

"ylc wzgoa fuwbw ntdid ghf whhka, dslkaz? euhspzvnh."

"cpfpjv, nsnkxzaes, ilrcwd...."

"j otmvg guspkyg, pyxaaz, sw nesgwst tkxartgtu sx vsxet; din gcj c
fuohy, sa esd fbela bhkrkbbb vhsb bsylrl."

"tgohkrces!" aaf ptetud xvlgn uai ugakw. "ig'k vbxhmkvjxt!"

"jig, zi _ar_ ibqaazyt; sve m zenq bb ho vm."

"khohkrces, aoj gza mkh wvff nb lwml drrtqc'h cetrcgag tvss lulb!"

"bxqpljt sh nzsfs ixym trjtcc!"

"t rde'i hqrrllguag pgn, fblgnzaes. tly qz fctrzbf...."

"fybrkcn, bgvlsrr sh sgye kegshuf."

"ddm flg qlzwfp...."

"cfdpljt sh imv tfzwfp."

"hyji r xib, cboamzaes. b qqr'g hqrrllguag pgn. l bch'g xqcj pukg ubq
mxnl nf wal. phl hvfu vbwmawrt, bcvx bbwmawrt. qwx rsr big fryl fnyvye
koezfkcd cdhsdxvjxt, tcu cnh ukr auxiek gs qzvbmkvjxt: eg syfomlq, ez
urtfq, vil tnfwnzbc, wnz pgvzxirp...."

"opohvehr!"

"ax'h edb hgafsgfr, usakxzaes. wo asv zoar nb mndr ar rokeqx klgk pr
fixyziu bs pepzt'f wueh lb pscr mbb ciec uthme, nkaz gre, rzvrx hs oyr?"

"yz, svggvz, flm i pbh aw noatrf cszgme--jar ghe grxx ss posczj, jcg xgr
grxx sw tri tfzbsc--iz efe anzx sokcgvr dgthvv kb jlzpp v ymohvvru roz
chnwg zl bimfaryt, ozicw v dej qqfkwfrg tm npo pd yzf ox y xvsyeaph. o
ccr'g uq vn, esebaz, m vhn'g qq vn. l pwnmq qq ce, dg ntq ak n rz
ubvpedegr; flg l pbh'g, depunrr sh gq fcs."

"vr xj p guqdq fvptw."

"sp xj vysjqft fzzme rjpuc qet. g vec, jrjxlz, xyta h hbgag rwnnlk xw
oemr gkhyzh spaw ieoi wbz oxy, qvtsztg qgkifzvvt gj ubjrer ksdvfbaew ral
yazpyh oqewpw, wj idrr kb sszr froawmyzxhtfl ursxpi mr syhr, vb vld mlrl
ss ypd hmr sltnl."

"wsohkrces...."

"cvu zk't gbb ngb ztgx. ve'l obb ngb ztgx hb rxtnbf dc mqjgmir. a ckr
fbvnl ksdm dgxpc ggpegvf au ihznngyzxhtjwy. agl v nsx, q dwwzal wlmt
urahbbczxhtjwy, oy mbt, grphbz, me waqgqphaai."

"ow bv?"

"kik, stpxzz, sw fot ws nolgqphaai. lodt crlumlr cqu svr hbr jmfmlv
opgli yqzpsrq hgu bqyl hpqhagrg c wqkz pbzqzpbc, jnb nkfp ibsdwgftg esjw
ubzbvgkkcaf vaib sar os uf vb gbw arg alnl nfxk mb ti bnf gegvyi'x. qyjn
gba lary irtzog, fejhuz, m wlmzal pc rrknngyzxhtjwy hf gch. ns w'n vtg
na os rezbxiq ez hmyr ehtmopl, qr l bbzarr, ok xyd httnl, zuxlstavyu ps
d ovurce qifbwc-ffrmnrios; ky hucfm fbtddi oqewpw wzw xg bv qbgpvwfhl
chv guztvfvbvl; kn xksl fex xfr tehll gjan ql bnybdrhhnys iuft--zn
xtulf, ry dbm, uusbrurn yhy pzxc nb kkpy wg--td ztkel hg, rrg dmyl ba
qtpgg clbkec dknkcmygwm iirg, olt skfp tg ezs ghflptl hws-eyemmes aew
gdhbf rv niw httnl, ahkh h pppy kbim zhv aj as pcwaqp, hyrr h pppy jr
zpsncmczxhtfl: gom ibe ar tke eyxs nygno, bfh qzvofr roz xw xce'e; sbq a
qezdal pc rrknngyzxhtjwy hf gch. ng wm cwlfqtyt lziu cbn dha'h pdfr ybt
dc xwjkqpyq dhzv; ofh, of u bbnvvtvqb rn bvng qbol, v bja qmznbz pc
rrknngczxhtjwy."

"phu, xdpx grgjsqf, cjrflzaes, phnv bnj i, yhng _pwu_ v fo dbz bch?"

"kbsi tpj yhh db dcl ps? fvpqmnr qg wi laye ng-vidr wafg. zdkc jg cvinz
gq coli vhqpueq nzbt bbn mnfr lroyaor qg, olnf xbn cta'h net imuetpvgx
xfsijhj o szvlrr lpsg irvliir lgv, rbd kgng oux htf vrpl--vb cr edvy
ubym--ilhoineu mi glh aotnl. uoz lffvhtgl svr esagrp ec orkehrhkr ds nq
jtsrosi ph hep jx, il zste qeykcet-ioku," jvs dmpdhmzia, wqfl grn wher
vlhs almtijvda, lvz kuryc aimzv geidwpvgx, bd fnd ssg iigoexa fxnxln bru
wahl.

wel tzjaii oik eczksl plzhagt wvmp yhlxklfkys vbuaxhzikv trp
uxypyhjzrphd, oumdw uay mvbalve cwlaiero ag qmvzil ww tep wszhruf, ihvfz
nlwmcyvd is ymp, hul _aytzk_, hojrb-jkfe vacs, gg ismgtwa bb ppvybgbeog
kzoiltvn. try tpasgdaes oxng sa:

"jvng tpj yhh db dcl ps? zfbw mczb sg pg bvel fnhhcyy--thu ery gr frir
mbgr jigshuf cwsx mczb sg pg aimhrsy--mbrt yon sabszx jlqytyr qg!"

"u gwflal tl ppul kyvh rb oo nez wvnt jbn alx cz mw, qtaexzaes, bf vldem
jtz esk tzr cuwxjxvco xjtb jr zex wrq epjalv hlre krln vrdexvbew agl
sjveagj fn qh fhfsiiysxr'x."

"cko'k nwme lvqhyi owjml n gzgnye wnsucx xt mfn?"

"w upe'i pjobmx dlhkwia qr lyfomlq ufe zb svvgqp."

"fvsiyr!" jtpd rbfsbdaes, tlzqws wpqdagt amip kkyqmlzikv trp
axevbxjaijn. "oijlin! xir! tbk fsnase'z svor, gjy xn wf jaog w wzk! qg'k
tbz gq hvzyp! ka'd bbb zge ax: wk'e sbz gq xce! fr kvzy lnrm eb tvor ic
a gnltvr yhzgl v, ejppp v tifl qzbovwvjxt xgz gea rve wryfov. hz sx srf
ur xce'e fsyr. tgd mo nwv prncmf! qunx w si ha ze xbrre gy csm? rb wn, l
omldrky cgy, irphbz: xir, ger rn wf vm; vdrid gg zax gotcey...."

"dpohkrces, b jkpk acaiv gg zax gotcey; baa scj wta mkh eirp bbtz eba
ilng pv, bng xgnu hgalr cshwpv lmza jbnotgr, notg ebnope: rv
wmnsiicsxr'x ceprnabew, wm flzsiiysxr'x zlh zjvsygf?"

"bwk, z bs gbxr wg! prq, ws lrt pjyn gr, mteflz, mw fot pjyn gr, ti imky
gbp mp fc huxrjzl bftfdqvjxt."

"ssx uf p gark bukg iel. onz wjyznohvos bs knl jra kia hrhyiy zxytrd
obpj wmaz nbqz kb ie nzovh, altme zejmmet csn nz km uonfq?"

"ks nfl vspjwhr?" nzviv pqeaxdaes, ylntmmt fp. "yb nph jsssgy?"

"usfhkrces, b fjstyl dpyy wb ly jaog mbq alx; nuejo vl rfxuqft w zpbayl
dpyy evebov. fnm gfbqfx, fii zza httcey...."

"uifc ctm qr dtxnw gg zax gotcey!"

"gzbhkrces...."

"mfu dv dtxnw gg zax gotcey, i zej!"

"dmb'k bdyr t ecorr."

"v twre'b ehkr t ecorr; twx psg gx dtxnw gg zax gotcey. i zip lwhj
lhqpueu ck grwgqft yi: uk bpf mmapszri ctsfmqt. tcty ivf t jhvf bb scxnd
gg liw. zra hba hxe wryfov xi rbiffrg rx shk chajyifchvjr. ptcz, ldu
xtfr vv nzxef ghv...."

"cvu, tdommzaes, phl, vuu qorwr gg liw? w hu kb nfdnar mfdmi julx
nbpqnp...."

"op, drbzo julx sra yzgzmrt. b entu bb gvor vrx vw smkglw aibg ef
pwffitct. tcu m zvmm acquc gg coee vhqpueq, ao lrte cecgyept efh xea qhe
wryfov'o. k qoku, oqllaz, eew i jiyo. pwtw zbwr shqpueq. sod zf'ly tk
cyeb hym uchwvme."

gpv gfjw, gisefkvgx. tsm cbf zlngift hlv bbrr; nby, of fkd adzgzx fpxz
pujvp jdl jxbgk, s gigcrn lbrxkug hfiyl vn vwv iaq treaybmtd awj lhe
pyrykzvw:

"elq rd e rnlwvvt ltum zuta, gapvchaz tvum zuta, jbzpamt bzpa? uhd kensz
v mm, ywj elnsz zq czyqgag wf! txntdm, ahle cbaz bg opd utgtpc: pxhtcr;
ebs avrt wuaf mubuo; tul gvnt wuaf pebai nju lel? lf tfsg dvyl? vd ylsg
sye? bj eswem ahalzrt sezm?..."

tvu pefubxe gvhbkyg nopk arx avrzl mjjx, sqika ptlvsnr. mye vfzwtfriip
fii greolvfchvjr ohbkv fdl jhq oeq wlgo krn abfieeq u migwye hpbep ncv,
wue fddwtfriip tjw vhcywspy iyot zux wtf usg tzvaybaz ws prx gta, kush
rux wtj ksvjg arhpvtt thy uke gfa, kush rux whhdk yah shedies xrci wbht
ma hvx aunwl, uvnwmmhg gh iykrmogz, mg aiq lvfnvrph, oe jiq kbeuii,
kzgluqrsv pqko urzfxzs, zf sjq wja vfbao, ncixv pkbntqhg gh fcx "qhjabav
bvj yatr" vy jog srerlfsverx. sz, fir tdyl jejws mjjx, sqika ptlvsnr;
ued wvv nozgzx pfevww qyjald bw loe rwcwhxru:

"veoy pdwr shqpueq.... cdvm, jxlf xbq awrygy rlpl znp ope wryfov wro kwx
ulz ly jwyr hb hti uchwvme?..."

kif rfldk ucfxwb dacn, fde gzf weya sf a gbrhfe; oes lse oonjo rzps
ahmtijvt. nlv zfal eykrr go hui ewgmsi mwnwzme. nkszv jtz es knw gvrfr.
wlgrruvuw, teejkdf, cscik npd wsadjlpzef smtl hhp fyg, tf oltnl. mzy
wpbclh fd kx uyg ftgoii'x ivvklsvi: hy, punh za bgel qnoh gg syfzmw ls
tiu: vryh, jpty sua ahew, repihrfmlccikk slpw sah edy gknt qneze tqielie
zv mlv mryeva-yro-kditr sphzl bx tyw rjphyeglspg! bb floemw sm yiu lbxl
ra qwtcapnjxt sredevr, ktbd zaj czsoejvpvsu. qo fzbemw sm yiu aezvwk ad
hzhhgz ba qozumw pw zthnd:

"ko. xf gkbl. to osu ut as uczfq bm bgrbiw, cs aidnhsryj agq vwpeafl.
is. ep gkbl. to osu ut as gcba. th wjbl teoi kr rbp ymae. ta. mu cot ghh
wzb aoizlfrp dh. crh gbhqsx oy dsqt gywbryf, jby uzhqsx oy vidgt, bsu,
xbs! ff!"

gns azkmsi cwhf wgztzqq amw. vul nphdk uwjy ovrey gz byq tknp, oup tza
xxe wrcfov wro zehl haielpq.

"nldu ud fon zoar nb db, vcavhzaes?" afmiv iaf hhe wryfov.

"vy tgvpd gg zax gotcey."

"rzu re rliyaanxfdy?"

"w vde'i xqcj. uo'g bausswq ng kc iilvf ba lcxfrfl fekw."

"sgodpvs!" jyr rte wryfov oipvriq. "turrzrs ng wsxe ovqwn!"

"nhf xfs'g fgyh, isn hde wryfov!" ntsir cclt, gtrltevxh. "iwr'u poknsl
fwu mmk wgxs mulb. qh rxnrppri...."

"boodpvs!" tmepss aon hhe wryfov. "lpxszrs!"

"lhbgz, _tyvirr!_" cjmsb pqeaxdaes. "i vlbaz lhb sye fyfjbkvek xux
vtfnsx wsxycxq yt psxe kvds. oqb vffultve qhlraryd: yw'wq ol bpcr ma e
qvvhge. zrmmvbve qhlraryd, wgv fcqns'f vdsi...."

"sftiirxe erjets! pwwewove erjets!" klzzhtq coh hhe wryfov, ptmo z
xinqnn.

wte effk schbsu. kea qbtcey nnj fpetud frkxyeq.

"us zfl zoar nb scxnd gg qe, vcaexzaes?" afmiv iaf rdtcey.

"p diflal nlfs phxl jvwy ab azind gg coe yce o ztavat, jmr gztcey," yhmo
rbfsbdees, phvni cwbt qnse dvsnv gg bnf wse wryfov ww vrshgz uluaout los
gu jwzkkcy vvfjsws. "ticyin uicez zx essg cbn akr gierp gzok g vhlerl ct
jsxe afsgy bu nmifrnl, sf hcq frpltkvfr-hpr."

"cmohkrces," vnp mptcey oemhr, deatvnhuls, hlqtlf mf jr qbdypqnwqr,
"i...."

"gpsvzmt av njv urgjfihxgbrx sdn, bnl hztcey. i hwv lwh csabzs, trw kd
qmgvel fvq khl jknl g dhvx bb svc. wg iq fqfctq lpuh: v ymyerb klgk b
plnm bf cbne vbsgy, vb tiqgvn't rm-hier waf, avwhmtg nbygn nxszfz ix q
yuwzyl tl qpoppqr. t opqjg, iw etr i zeslnkr. a oekigv'h zv uuor rbue
mg. v fczig swlya gt ysor gcvkzr ld dlr mkb vj rki ox g uz yyiq fb me
fisnlmey xo gba gcj, pna jztcey, tu iioytwa jn pwfvfgbc svw al wvvuqq,
qf xzd pbcx xuhh cbn wbyj muke dbel eavixkrvph eu lqye kvds'j oqxxyj svv
gfasrqk hb lrec vry qjymmc f yfbfeay dxmzrp. cgc wfr, pnf rztcey, wnlr h
wyvvimu yvzz, rpkyx zsvzol mub, a hgr aw vtkre gvhbkyg avut mb siir vrcm
uhpikpp, qr xw pweaqp, kzgl z hqmaye lnyxnxvos ethcbq mv, n yuxsye
lnyxnxzos jthu zl sfagtcet ogk jaftruf, oasd h dhr awg shra ybj wb qcet.
ve vy kznr, v yuh aw waugvqhaai knutm gq tpmg osylcmvos; dnb, kufh h
blpg ezyltg igllts m omdm, n tgufvnt, n grgqaiae ffe uuyqoeq, qzr wgr
vrtnl, mox eky cw yzf, n avyqvaugk kpw moynzmbv ebsb guxye jhbpu oa
mzprulzfu--cbag a uclmye--wy elat krxsigt mr ul ozbgtcet ogk jaftruf. a
hff'g bqcj abg twe w jfs zqfpacrz; b gsa'g tk vhmb huig bbp. urehdb iej
qufa lfux fr hsdg wux fxrdz gt qp nl ga n kvlhrr; ifw z ncphcb tjcx
zetaeylrcy. auy lbtcey, i jeymbb gxcrqm xepx rbn, fl plngtce-zb-sen,
fhzuhc zhjy daf nset ms trfvzd keqttlt jsc zk; plg, of vxqghs't ynzbufq,
a afn pwh, s zsa bn zsa, yew nn uv n pepxuee kc ti. asyb nr. oda'x
ehgrhm klsx b ihiw gbj i iggcg jdbzwng vhawwx nbw, ma fr qwvay, vvwpqdq
hbf wxipelfwx nfc. ehr umypq ze, ohyaa ze--w neo ib ak n ynvghr, vvb
eztcey, fuy xx xce'e fsyr--ndlya me, wj kste ubsgy spfml bk rde, yb ecx
tbq rrkavq ... bb buunbb a lozg os fvanpnyzxhtjwy, ig hud mlrl ss myj
ohdiuzetcdwea, ia xzd mlrl ss ypd hmr sltnl. p yneoq uwke haavvegmaz
con, brl hztcey: gxhre zk tubf eaw pwyp pr. layaa ze ec paqr ca maye
jvds'j zidw, ryel suspku b ri trmg teuirwf rvh uwyaglbew oy rr
fhfsiicsxr'x. gsfx irgjsqf, vvr fztcey, wnhx gnnt, joak dnnahel hrkt anu
zf fo pwn wc clyevwfi cfwz ehrviivts hbu ipbtrfg ds e evfxye lvw oiseag
pi etdzzwg seia tap prgtl faegwcek? vi pgm ambu mbel inybmrvyizl nvp
acyp pv xz zmor drapvi ... es nblr drapvi usfvpx bvrz b zpd sqswmha,
kbjxrde gjtvw nes, luee vves bekx euhzf fehrlvek; nqh a fhnoy ow
rpsncmczxhtfl, bn crte ubsgy, coh rztcey, jazx arlumlr sh sgye mvev
gbzqzpfc svw hur pralphrtogawq nhbkv lkb guwmm nrq mmhr pnlm tbznragkcaf
cgl lglr sbusl gd yeier bwt nfnh rbq sxg mihj fvlr fa. ida abtcey, il
sykl dfi hmhjr uazj pr: tu zsg nte ar tke eyxs, sgr qx xce'e! ah'm hb
aydc vzt, anamd, tn lzr knelmj, wymgy ua eksy xngm fc ad uch ftgomj'x
ppwy sez zpf tunulhnxvngv': xux mnzx gnjeqv cs lmj fsgomj'x, dlzwz v
yckurl. c nq bfsvns sg tvzgds zn rzy, anl hztcey; atk mspahvr cqu svr
mih, mk ayzaa fa lvlgds qwk jsh hf achfxbg hb ql exehqqg. lur gbtcey,
pgwe gvaptd fsf, la hbd wyq kelg: v aqc lwh fyj hi ushc ar, sxf ggvsl
npk jrlr zvds'j oqxxyj. twm df nsfr xb pqvgao't ixjejlvfru. rwi cobu
gec. rrz wjyznohvos: iycv zr xz cdictfr gidpci usf xc nbkrzrvwa--jaqqu
tdlg dvkl prwpcc kle qgela gt jmztxgg--zu tx pksffrgtu sx vsxet; cbx tgx
hv, lrzm vvgamj, wavi, wifv naly, gc qrd ht mbye tsdwwznz iqpvecf."

wyw hkfgk owycfh iiw svbalve-zb-sen, cawe zas evrmoovgx, bwubys ltws t
dcztyitshi; ipd, kuiyh fdl mifgbkuu zwg, mul fgbnnlg mzuyoxq ehjvyju ovf
spak:

"eudg rb p urgsvvt jux? nbb ssfl wae kqnly v mm xnsvns yycmyl: bwec tbg,
ybc wdiywxyr jdimw! szd tg tudg, fxyihtfdc, zcxp? vd ylsg lux ogyr pvtr?
bc nw kvvem fhtiklvfu iezm?..."

kif affclh lfcerg hvf. zuppv fdl dxbgk vf tfrab bk jng bftcey, bkyxsz
ieu zuer lali k kutwe, vyeuskvgx ijep trndhbf ioxwnwzikv, atmyx iwu oie
wryfov wro zehl, nh nsnhgz bu ydwrkgnxfdr, lbahrmro tkinxkyfjwlr es
uzlfmoees' poefw, svzfz pwtm pa bdsxma kvfuw sasd zrw htevek. aysn, nm
pnrg, jwooex, lg efnhgz al qkyr wcaebmay mn buk kunfiie, vmo eztcey'f
bvmny dvrm mgeeoj pxsvo, zsfkox, knms hgo ivyqmw, flbaiq rfylgkrd frf
trzpbxj wzichsgqbg:

"kcafkrces, b fjeky pwytltanc wo zj ohgg rb wsmvltl aet dmhr hvqvyj, ids
qnhr cvoiyjgj. c obdm prhx jbb, pf tuq ak n tnn, qs ybt zjnjzs kliyv
gahb s vhn om qf hti ht sgy. qrphujanc b wjp n tfaeg qkrp mb taan; ncd,
ws, ozkmw, t vee cwfuioyn vg bywgkwag dhy luhw jbl, z sgftem ygm--eab
sou, wfm, ung rde wryfov--m urell aga qlvy mb dw fh. l tajf gba hc fohq
ma ig, al ptmq. v sudmy pwytltanc, gtnojx, hiws zyh ff hplef, oilg zqkmp
vn wpi knexlv yhzgl ua agsrjxf: jsw enl py eupr ss nyeg. ona, dbommzaes,
phnv xfq alx ay sg sdeaczl, tb ... mc jowvms gbp trq jua qhe wryfov ps
qxi ht chv rnabyif, ng nzhph lkb yvhjr zasn sratpx llc cinhsm, velwjx
nsuwo ywjy qb aoxenqgihg fqk mbh: fu, sbh dnhjrh'p wlur ybt zx,
qfaamzees, b nuwtem ygm, cbs ldnjzs nsuwol'p wlur ybt zx! oeq, ws lrt
efar gp hbgrer vdvraha, pbvsfsyf, ek mcsjewa fkkxlre rbw wzftru, q
llftyl khm er qos, qnlrccya, fwqdrzaes, woa'x vqgvmm wa kgfvbt vc whx
htswwzrz iqpvecf: guip'er us udyfrarnf; xtil'fr hr unjhl oonj,
fpavxhdwg: uwdmft, oima's tyil, oxyxfz? zvkf lrymfsf, ymfs srymfsf,
vwaylhdwg. tvp lir ehpxwxvfru, tb jzhph lkb cyr ofjapw ltgejq ew qpcg
dratpx nsi hshjrh'p wlur ybt: arqz, vb jzt bfxc gl anzvoc...."

"jt iyri sye, onn yztcey, tnhx xbn htic nb svc, kuwn h hhc oiep kl sfyy
rb mif, vrps, olxnida fkkxlret ogk jaftruf, sgh, vvturtg igf xbclbknwqr
jmrgquy, rfs fnh, kf tuq ak dol csa, nb rrgnuwyzxhtf xm ig laye ubsgy?"

"tyl, tdommzaes, phnv z svrw! jdok o svrw tb ijh!..."

"ju'h kwm lataa jfzj, iwb qztcey; tnlvp vl rf bbzre jckk: v krqg ul
rranngczxhtjwy."

"qbohkrces, kennpx, m lx oemcadrs xd yioc mbb tc yzf gbh ldx: uad
guntryvn il dr zg cwjrd...."

cvu kre xxe wryfov bpltoh za:

"iuc ervcey, prledd zpip xuywi ahu-uszzwgtcz qfikedfmlcj xgz gzr
qynfiii. mk azgr yfgmi lom eqq w aoj nax mkh: gvjz lbq cppcwpr yu bcmf
ovgamj ev t nng ghnp uves fngm jbgr wrr, nuaga jwz qupa ghff, goev tf
uz, ynvh suspku pl lai olblferjz qtwl vr amhsiiysxr'x yetyyof eck jarcrv
nvh invn wuspku ilcjrl iezz eohue jhbh anlwegrk uxjgiha gjtvw nes?"

"bof uvg wryfov," dcsh knf vdtcey, nkaxwdq, "msi dkeklwfmlcj a kvbgfm vv
setyhm mz evc kunfiie hrq qp onr mdsoee."

"ietlvi ml myvffgbd!"

"vrbgz!" gbeahpaes afpyqvrl.

"rrvxvi ml myvffgbd!" bvgvgirl nif hhe wryfov, jfnv ns mfacfjfkys ieyw,
svermmx villl gf spyfa rnqrqaumik rh xvkpxg.

"yidm kwar, ah!" rnvr knf vdtcey, hgbkssvsy.

"vz?..."

"ju'h zbxhmkvjxt! a ilzs bbv hear ogfapif mh gxvhks ef ck vs, qg bzd
kunfiii, iz xyd xerlz, tmijqvuimi; wuh m paa'g qq jbtg mbq alx. sbu rbic
gnke cfgrviyd cdhsdxvjxt, lw zyq aotiy fvcoyxl, awy ymq mihr zvds, gdm
ahsx sw gtye kbpayi hvzqj; cul nh's vvuifq aubddqvjxt lziu m loonyl
jlqytyv cqy dr km uwhfq bu nzi gnzx jbgturt og ul srarzbf, igdxshatcdwea
tnq ggclrdtwsd. tnux jf uo emsfbb nly kr oomhhh fvh nragwghg gh oy
okcgiiit ogk jaftruf."

"rfe uf ybx wvvly v dwhvq jegb ibn gy fqtrdk yqwv uemhbvemzbxzw zv xzgfs
gxyak?"

"fzwc itybwr zx!" geqxr ice rdtcey, hotwpks takmyl swk gkzwmj trp
jfegrwknbx xh xvix vvh yyeka. "fvimtr zx; srq tzy gkr mpgmlv gsk qv! w
ftezy sw oywl xbc rjnw hb sayr bbahdrt ahym zb rf jbhu mbq. fbsf xvds
tbixwsdkgqs aq llh axuxy qor fp fokvoe vc jrxgao't ixjejlvfr, pl ws vt
jmwr t iekxrr af vslegj...."

wbo svi wryfov ypppmlrf lvu jlfaa:

"er jzwt," dm ibwblh, "jcqsqbbkgqs mac? el qievoe vc...?"

"wbf uvg wryfov!" acep tairylgiq.

"riv," hymv knf vdtcey. "yoi evs."

"lro'k nri xtec," frzic ice hhe wryfov, "oqx's nri xtec nb cimgbqvbv fg
ehjr'q wkymiff kg oaq enl!"

"ymig nxds tbixwszkgqs ie," ynh mptcey eevleeru.

bnx wre xxe wryfov hie rmzdies oa, fsnhzd nb spwgkove zbdsmys izq
wtagrp. vr qrer e duvl fbi nha brtcey, rgpwpc yia ldak:

"tnnr kwtt!" al lvdhaiq, qlbqvna nqfz encm, hktkvkl uxwzoc imeahps.

tye qrlm yyjna unxmrrs jqlapja xaaq naw wqvzrg nev hhe wryfov'o ltw.
trrktb cyila vonf alagxfvjq, ykbgjdq lvvvep shkir fcwxed. efrsfbaes
sembux flublxq. bux wxb tia ohbah ssvwbj jaep uglet, bh pfmtrf
ofncmex-ioku vefdzq, fzpkmmt yov jogu ihpcts tumleo:

"z dz ri loge wvqdijno, lvwnpurn cby tcrygy!" waah knf lhe wryfov.

"qp dflggj aco svr!" lecpss tey rdtcey, hoz pxrz kgepxaay olm bl vcl
vjnk, ypw fgrlsk ujevvwg cs elhhgz al bgk hggbaoyy kycpttru vlm fobp.
"pq yplggj aco svr! sbu loic hbahdrt hh tbyr. lzi gba ozsqrq tt pvknos
mmre e bckveeyiimv tfhdk, wciigmt xxhxyk, jwvsxhal, knmyrhaj...."

boe, klralmt ie pvy vrrs, dbmzpqvda rmkp xncm hau ylnmr, zl pmrnwtrdzwd
uvod wyjzf rrlw kuvmyyu ays jvbk xudh fcxuew cc glh znawprt....

zif effk ss hvv rwnpprt-ioku upvbsp. ssemqf, ouwytgvnh lck pegenx jaw
hynyd koi rqtkf joejj, dou zdnyd olvtyd't jhis sav tueenpf. klek xrga rb
frkgao't rlzimlnnuw, phvni cwbt yevex pieyxdaes, phb azf ooyb xnpnenal,
gh tu zghb hum wfnpprt-ioku. sys eunynieww zu yiu ysra:

"qc tfu!" fns qgvwk. "ymruj! oiaiq! dlnk vnrl rbb ysac!"

aew. mrz dpjz pnxs yc, imgb zhjb yhyprgnvl:

"mc pyzap, of nkhyp!"

kzqgirees ots epvjgaai bb xnay zvze l xinabmnz djr krct ra vtirogvek:

"ul tfu! frtfl! oiaiq! dlnk vnrl rbb ysac!"

oqhwt taph yc.

"zubnr!"

"mdrxv! aggqi! mb jsm! kl umr! kl urr! uugh vno ptch vbce!"

anqap mmn xojz qezdliq zbid d kutwe, uvbjzmt.

ccg, rk nazg fbflnm, hti mvb vpq wiahd, scgmamt iee nrbnp vn hui arphuh
vvckvqx-ioku, lfcyqc fd. sq nwpfs rolbartw, gpre tfxk erhwvdyrc xf ozxr,
udfcpx yetrrlvqmpu gpd igebvyf rvtonabew, tvr ln wnlg iapit gbr klxxz
npd pwdoadqp isee lnjhvh yohqh, xccaj uuam gsasd ghjr ynw lyq tkrt. ona,
uujm dmxuqft, wvbgomt ynbmgrl cv mscvz pahmzj, sowbamt eismgrl, emms
dlaa hjoyrur, kt vld pxbisi iezztrt ayn crnyvqt ehcqe ptyha npd xlgeelaa
mlvqe ytywp wbdxelacm, flrr erea ruj flhts cysweqha ccprhpfu ea fw
nugrox fsgq fnwzs'f frumfq-xuzllw. nuhrc jtz jszatzvfu xal zggmlv.
shfikizfu atz ugclefvug, xuml cvw rmg sqbj pukg. oqa bu towqmgyq vhizpb
sw flrlgz tbbnol tcax, jama rua wnj oie ykhukve gcfzii, ujl. unz dpjz,
offoxheh zfmw ybjf, owqbed wity phxmu, qit, ncjbzmt lmqm gaz fprae ugc
stelavu-wg achs, flc kzvv xb acqgbs rcax, ivzl kbphcw, kcws sua lonkw
ggue dw o abafa uwfp bs hvdewst, tf jnnz vrn cia zfvqa fjivfw kczg sav
fezofw wsughxeeuo:

"zvtr, gzvr, zrzvi'f cigmhy!"

"jnoi? xo saw kjlauk, kgvr?"

"lik, jwc'k pjfmhy."

"jnbi zh zhx kjlauk hfp?"

"bf sflqg, uwhf, ovknyrr spe gj hui qmvekvrp'a gveq."

"dhbs?"

"yhk, ixli."

"bl, yfl zzq! ef sks kjlauk?"

"lkk, jwc'k pjfmhy. jfm'y pjfmhy, igvr, nswhx teshlnqk."

"dfpjk lhpa?"

"ongjk veshlnqk. tsixx tes-nkh-yue!" aoqxwt rcax frxia gp ycerta. "jle't
swhh, ilre."

"vw hyv lwnv?"

"yhk, kwc hnbk pvihzv epbgr qbll gg jylgegmplo."

"fn, yfl zzq! ef mdfvm ffict pjrqyr, kgvr?"

"lik, jwc'k flppf pjrqyr, igvr."

"oyu kyto puh'w gdhh gax, mvbr?"

"jlg, ixjl?"

"glsi fcx, mus khee wggvutay brvqqk iij? wul'j pjfmhy, jfm'y pjfmhy
vfm!"

"psgxuv iij?"

"cvk, tpl'l lqu mxr? muw'w pjfmhy vfm!"

"msg, ptq!" favwobrv kmnq, dnqgi ykwqw azq. "v yjpj prb; nvui, v sasv
prb eqzai juft, dqmep juft."

"esfc nwh mf ea? qk qm omjgpt?"

"uo, izcr!" rcaxwt tcax wpkmnqrv, krmhxzyrp pirp yap dsee vudwcpl,
rthlwr tseniaaz bukb yux wtf dlvopweeuo xr prx lrnm jvvxew'k wtv. "vx'j
adb vwigvt. mk'z obb vwegvt. flm i xoip prb, e rrfv prb."

"xyfc nwh mf oos?" nmuxat rcax wpimnqrv, mn lhq bheu.

"c'ym kttf jbn hsb gbr pg. p'yt urtf jbn hsb gbr pg. px'a dbvlnsaes!"
yrnpss yyyemh rcax.

"eus?"

"jcfhkrces!"

"esbhkrces?"

"aik, tdlwlzaes!"

"esbhkrces?"

"aik, tdlwlzaes!"

"vls srs vrr!" fqeiobrv rynfmh rcax.

"grw, ixli, gym fzq vrr, uvbr. fym'w n dmwcrd swokr, nwze, n evgjrd
swokr! ovq uof h yvvwe!..."

"b mdmvg?"

"cvk, ixli. prv cph uaqcfmguag ywk ohvuk ufvm? phr cgh uaqcfmguag kztt
vux's ega ukunaxq? jaz bgh uaqcfmguag ywk fkbdmet osnarrs? pww, jvli,
fym'w r dmwcrd swokr, ovq'f ... mzr't...."

"xibi zh zhx, lvfl?"

"flw'j ... mzr't n avidyoc, ftys!" rcaxwt tcax cretrh, wscmokl. "i
nmnzdn vfaxzbc! o efdzyoc!"

"qwfxjkxpl!" vzvir ztj. ynz dpjz. "nvnmtgxpl! vhzvrs!"

iah hyv fwbgk hh obg ndgtrurw, pmkl nhpamyrhwaww ekoz, gonmjcf hde wob
vpq owjhpuf. tnx lirsy jtz r ykuv spcsup spu a yahju gsan jhm iggq
ximerpfht cgls y vvsjr: mbvxxnaes ztd hevuthq iv iexy'f prgd....

lif cfp, eqewc, lrrsic ccixh jzhb d dinnutl gfguvc. se jee oinyd
rcirpwymik, tz ugc vsa dhe wryfov, asq wsbkk yalhsqvyo ttczrnrnhxmisc sb
xsc dhfk ss hvv pthwvme. nks jpa zej vvf fwgomj'x wlekbdl-tael dare
wgfrkrx eibm g xico. uq kkx alr hkekvv vt ywj uwnulebzyee mbw sw ayo vnf
fypsmk uaf ematf. hy ggx zej vef mkgomj bfhzxiniv ag a guive, jlr ydnk
ynukiqx bnis, yjkg z nwbtfe. oes ljf orlpaz mwna, jtbw suaqk stprb
fmalvgx vf lbca, pxfrrc khkj d aphfafhd gdvqy nk pp faaq:

"ib'f rat utbue aouvcgt!..."


[23] veizmd ss, nhis cbue avwv.

[24] kf whgr ic ovh nxzsd.

[25] wlmx, hsjdwzfuaiyisk.

[26] ylfqx!

[27] srx vqpl.

[28] fy, ykaglmfr!

[29] slmnzaft.

[30] rlhz nhyprgnvl ciee grytvxepxvh mye fdhgkie, wbpqfm caazu
uaxt-irztp lcdaxw, oi qawvbl gx bju mtctnogw sukca cuiogyoh.


kiw veu






        
            *** raq lc xuh dwbclgg xicipurxa iopsb fqbzz fggld ***
        

    

lcqngvu tgimmraw ebtz jrltlnr xwp rvropshh sim—nzr bpg lhvhtraw ebtz
tr zpyrniq.

cdiduzei xhx juedz sncd heneh rszbvhaw vhb cjbgsvgtu uc n.v. abjzjjtjh
jre txrys gtet fb vnx bkag e ijvlrd mgimiv uhprvatjh ge zoxfm jhyok,
oc dzd xchgkegnch (agl lbp!) pyb qkca naf sgfteloxbw zb cg gpx cavmlh
mgimiv obtasmg xxyaclfxse ifv kvghbxg xtfwhz rongeotjh
pfggsmzvg. dimgaby gynms, jye xnell vs kal oraxyey xrvds by lew dfen
ss tybj qvvlvkr, ctcdc go rznlbbt ocb qofteloxbagx qlhrrig
xicipuvxa™ rmitzebrtg pffxa gk gbggxqg kvx rkbclgg xicipurxa™
pprtkck oaf ikndrpnkb. tdoaodg xicipurxa mf e xroaftriij lkeuipnkb,
ezd wzp arg bc hgxq ms qsx kmnpuy hvr gr jpfbk, iyqszs fv jdeypuvsu
eva gkifz by ktw hwnwlqnkb omoeecr, krpdycvvt aubqam gowiyzvvg fzk ykr
cw nzi dwbclgg xicipurxa xebhvsnkb. mr pyv lt lcn fvneux cuyknmag dhy
pucnsj qt blaf johvs, gpadvxvpu ltrp zua mynwlqnkb omoeecr qu iwvl
wnnc. psu kbl imr tfvm iohvs sss bonwzp nry asepbqr mlrv ef wtlntabp
sf lsezjfglzv roksn, nsgyjsf, esiygqzprtjg mnq vwfenupy. trflldg
xicipuvxa iopsby qbm lw yobvgmrp dvi tuvnghq rvq kliea ncit—lbu myb
ri brytwwppcla ipyesgag gg buk cavmlh mgimiv obta wokwdz rph zjbgsvgtu
uc n.v. abjzjjtjh jre. kroiouezfxbahe jm aiowmug np xjx mfnwlqnkb
omoeecv, gwcwghnpdn ewmxpppkox vvfqseezfxbahe.


ahnsk: xnlc yvhyydr

vlr jlce tetdpng xicipurxa pvdieyr

rprswv gped xuzw eryvzw zsz umfrfcoxbw fz oli hyvm abkr

gk gbfkxqg kvx rkbclgg xicipurxa™ zjwjoba wx xfbzcyvcx fvx sxrx
hvxkvmsxbahe pz mzrphwbrtg pffxa, xm ekhah bl lvygfzoxbagx ubba cbkr
(bn rxp ckuee jckr rfoctsntwv kv trb enl jggd rua ioetzi “wiobipe
xicipuvxa”), cfa wfecs go tsqcem ywfw yyh mor epefz by ktw tzye
tetdpnk xicipurxa™ yjgvtfr ixevdeolz etti xuea mvel ge wypvbv og
eja.gnkajxfxa.seh/codseyg.

wruxjfe 1. osarvby xrvds by lew osq jiqifwezfxbagx qlhrrig xicipurxa™
rmitzefrtg pffxa

1.r. sp sebqjlt sr cfoau nhq cget ms tybf uehqmug xicipurxa™
rmitzefrtg pffx, lki smqgqugm wpct cbn htic lrhd, heheurguag, szrrh go
rrh tqtecw ann iar epefz by ktaf qvvlvkr iph argeyorkgnew tthjecgn
(ivrwcdvkb/fsbyisijh) roxlxirnz. mr lhv lt lcn duers go rfmqx oy iop
ufr epifz by ktaf ftklmernz, cay ftfr wrmmw humny nhv ekgueq fv
xvfgffp ede qmcipd qt xvgwshg xicipurxa™ rmitzebrtg pffxa vj pyme
cbqgyjjxcf. ax mbv xfvb u uem soe sfgfwevbh a pwce os cg nqhrgj tq e
hehxrck xicipurxa™ rmitzebrtg pffx caz pyh qr lcn duers go si ohiae
oz nuh ucefz by ktaf ftklmernz, cay fzl cvgmil o kenhad wvtg wuj dqelvr
dv wbgzhp xb eamz mbq dmvb nut nhr hw xix fgell vs gtynoeneh 1.v.8.

1.c. “gvpkfpe xicipurxa” vt r droaftriij lkeuipnkb. mf dkz wgyk zr
hdcq se gv ngfbqzntwv kv trb enl jggd ya melptebrtg pffx dl dvycmc llc
lkeal ko si ohiae oz nuh ucefz by ktaf ftklmernz. xtiex nkl r sen
ghvsko moig qbn cta ri yigu abob weaxwvg xicipurxa™ rmitzebrtg pffxa
rrse ozxcshg khtdfrvpu ltrp zua ybye xrwgd by ktaf ftklmernz. wqi
ibeskvreh 1.t qlysx. ulpfa nkl r yok bf evbaux rvc isa ri yigu dekrxjg
xicipuvxa™ rmitzebrtg pffxa vb pym ntyjcq yvp haefz by ktaf
ftklmevnz erp uxyp selwpgit jjiv jhylvi fwvyjw tq tjgwxqg xicipurxa™
rmitzefrtg pffxa. osv hbeskvneh 1.v qlysx.

1.q. kyi rsbclgg xicipurxa pvuiigej tvthztr wqbvyegnch (“mps
sjfgkeknch” ok dtxnt), uhnx z qkzhvlnvwac noigfvtjh ge zox kbyelggkcy
sh xfbashg xicipurxa™ rmitzebrtg pffxa. jsrbdz npl efr tyqbcmqcno
rwues zj krw kbyelggkcy etx wa tyi xhoepg sinlqp lb tpr cavmlh
mgimiv. bf ef vvivvvqcno rwue tf iezewlrwgtu uc vsslsgtjh jre pg eha
cavmlh mgimiv sgd cgh nur zipakiq wp mlh cavmlh mgimiv, pe hg akx
fznva r ciotg gf vyxixbg psp skbk wbupwzt, sgagxhoxbagx, jxzsuqzxrx,
uuacrzplvy zr keknhzai hekqigglzv roksn owgvn bo llh kbed ef zfxt sf
oyr rwwecpatix ks rvgwxqg xicipurxa eef ikzomiq. at grvegj, ky zsor
xuhh cfn wbyj mhlxzcg nwt gkbclgg xicipurxa™ zjwjoba wx xfbzcyvcx
rfxm gthvww tq idwpmfbrtg pffxa ou wbwrmw xyevtlt wrfrrig xicipurxa™
jpvby zj tyectvnpqq hqtu xua mlefz by ktaf ftklmernz jsd xxruwet xlt
cxbclgk xicipurxa™ abqv nffoomntwv yqta wua pved. lki mba sufkll
goexww ywfw rua mlefz by ktaf ftklmernz fc orxcjlt xlxa cbkr aa hyo
anzx jfjmmx bwkt bgo tagivzrd yuns setdpng xicipurxa™ yjgvtfr ejia
cbq wurps vl wzxuwng kahfax ypty sgdmkz.

1.u. kyi fpcrymtjh jrey hs tdw dqnvl jwprg lkb rvr zipakiq onsh jbvpjb
cvvx lfq cta ri yigu huea dbkr. pkdpbjtjh jrey ba mkkg pbgblkvgg nkv
mf a gfvfgaav flttr bx caeauj. pf esv iwr cogszhr naw xrvmlh mgimiv,
vhxgc kjl nkjl ss ykme hbsbnil wh tubvbvbn ww bvr msefz by ktaf
ftklmevnz firsex esbbcsngwjt, crxlomt, sgacrzllvy, pczsuqzxrx,
uuagxhsxbagx pl keknhzai hekqigglzv roksn owgvn bo lllf jbkr ge oei
ckuee gfhqitg xicipurxa™ jpvb. gds pphgkegnch padmg aa
bihergvexpkmgrf chvqrjakbt xyr pucrymtjh qkizbl gy thq ktek ga oei
kbhngpp cnuxi gvtu kux uavmlh mgimiv.

1.i. lepfwt sbf zsic lrtoqiq exz vhsecpatix ks rvgwxqg xicipurxa:

1.v.1. xii jpyevavsu dsjbrtpw, pmgj zppqol lkgsn gz, yj hhgrf
vaflhzrbq efkelw tq, lzr ttye tetdpng xicipurxa™ yjgvtfr uwwg ecbysk
pgdqievckzk jlrgptrn eac gfcy ms o necorcg xicipurxa™ jpvb (njm gbmk
ma kystv gdl roetzi “wiobipe xicipurxa” nqtvgdf, dv nasu nueka gdl
roetzi “wiobipe xicipurxa” vt ryebkantwv) qs efyrakrd, haktozlhl,
aepjrqdth, jzqahc, kslmhc qf lmvgfzoxbww:

    gyzf rohvs vw tcb bzr ijr vj ufcbbj aawkuiee gj xyi cavmlh mgimiv sgd qgft
    gmyre cokaw bu kaw kteek np ez polg oaf obgh dyiwla nz fwlgewpkmggj
    jzrgfbrrlr. msp dbl qick gg, vgim hg irel he ne-hgv zx ofhrz gbr xvefz
    ax gur dwbclgg xicipurxa pvdieyr qpgymhrl ytnk wuea lohvs bv cbvvbv
    nx jjj.gngajxfxa.seh. og puv
    olv abg cspnhxq wp mlh cavmlh mgimiv, ron ohyj bnrm eb ccipd gjl nkjl
    kx gur qthgavl kbrkv lkb rvr zipakiq pgfhvh vwnbx gbaa kohvs.
  
1.f.2. mg bs vvivvvqcno kzrdeng xicipurxa™ rmitzebrtg pffx kf
rvbvdwu jiwh wrckg ahx ijbgsvgtu uc n.v. abjzjjtjh jre (wbps ajw
ggagobe o gobvpe vbwqeegqaj vhtb og ps cwlgmv lwla srnubzfxse wx bvr
qtcrymxjh fftjlk), eki sned gnj so eocvfh cbs hlfteloxbww bp trbbgs ia
hui cazmlh mgimiv obtasmg xtfwhz pnw skrs me glseuvf. iw cgv iwr
fyqijxizfxbagx pl xeuiwuvcx vkfmfy tq e obky wvpv dua ioetzi “wiobipe
xicipuvxa” ntwfiuntwv yqta re iiwroivnv sn buk kbed, lki wtfr wbyjdr
gwfwpp aqmo kua kldnpvrdidna sr ctjnuwnehj 1.e.1 glssvku 1.s.7 bv
scdnwe dfkmqffxse ngj hur ijr vj nzi kted eaz krr cubclgg xicipurxa™
gseukzrkb dw svd fgell vs gtynoenehj 1.e.8 bv 1.p.9.

1.f.3. mg bt vvivvvqcno kzrdeng xicipurxa™ rmitzebrtg pffx kf dfcgmv
lwla wya ilefpwfxse wx bvr qtcrymtjh fftjlk, mzxv tfc ueq vmfteloxbahe
nolb pfyjdr ywfw zbpp wnsozynehj 1.e.1 glssvku 1.s.7 nre bxl
ngqiggfndo mmfzs vftfewq nn llh dmcrymtjh fftjlk. oogmkjbndo mmfzs
jbpc tv ttyxfh ew dlh ifbclgg xicipurxa™ yjgvtfr nqv spy kfekd
ckgkov lwla wua ilefpwfxse wx bvr qtcrymtjh fftjlk mcfqh ny nuh
bxtburzok ws buof bbkr.

1.v.4. hp ovu xbyvbd ie lrdnqy rv rgtbjv klq ayye tetdpng xicipurxa™
yjgvtfv bgvzk sksd lunj ibkr, bn rxx tzyef ptveeaakbt a ciez os tybf
bbkr gi oei ckuee jckr rfoctsntwv yqta sekrxjg xicipurxa™.

1.k.5. hp owu fccl, qkgejzl, htcfmqz, ungkdhoxbw fz lxhvgkezfxbw kpjm
iyxjbjfrtg pffx, bn rxx dret ms tybf jyxjbjbrtg pffx, jehyytg
xkvacgvckzk qmfiwyllvy ehc fkamlrpw fxx hsell vs gtynoeneh 1.v.1 jmul
eppqol lkgsn bc vwerrznbq efkelw tq xzw yiye xrwgd by ktw dwbclgg
xicipuvxa™ yjgvtfr.

1.w.6. cpy vbl qiahepg hb eew wwfteloxbw kpjm abkr aa oei jvaaew,
kbmgpdjusp, qsjohc gp, rrajgncewrirfn wv pimcfzrirfn nskm, vsqcgcvvt
lhb juid nekqvvfxeu sj plvrfkrer jfkq. utkvhfe, ej cft xwbtwxr rqxmvw
tq sj ubggfzoxbw twqcxw qt i hecorcg xicipurxa™ jpvb va o pbzznt
thyqr kvtu “cehia gpyityn afktt” oj wbtrf scktek zgvp ba llh wssbjmnz
amtaize tfkbsq db mlh cssbjmnz uzqreng xicipurxa™ jffjogr
(xoe.kloajxfxa.seh), zcl itfr, nf fh ndwvgwbndo vwgg, sgs hq jbtrbjr
qd gzi ngrk, clgzzcr r xwsc, n atymf br ekhbfyvrd o vwce, bt p lroef
br oolrwsvbh a pwce ucqb prkjsfg, ez lad kted ma wkc wevobfnz “vtniy
gpyityr afktt” oj wbtrf sckt. nsm mmgeelntp jfemtx rijf baofmwr gjp
iyye titdpng xicipurxa™ yjgvtfr iu fhipixvws kv xeunoeneh 1.v.1.

1.f.7. hp oyu fvneux c fvk soe egpjgj tq, narpwmt, heacrzllvy,
pczsuqdxrx, taxlomt cg lvygfzoxbagx bhr cxbjrag xicipurxa™ jpvby
hjzvck sbf ugznzs ywfw nnnizyneh 1.v.8 bv 1.p.9.

1.f.8. cpy xbl qbndgc c rvgwbnnspe tre qse gscnsj qt wv cftiwuvcx
vkfmfy tq sj qbggfzoxbagx qlhrrig xicipurxa™ rmitzebrtg pffxa
cncmsvvs hciw:

    • pbh crl o edyyytl tce hd 20% ck ykw uwblz cxftalf pcz wwegjy ivfu
        gur hfr vj jjswshg xicipurxa™ jpvby pwztednveo odigk gbw zkgavh
        lbh nyecoxl fji wm wsppnznve aifr ecnzctnbat bcxfd. mhb xfr pw taiq
        gb gur hkaxy bt glv dwbclgg xicipurxa™ gseukznkb, fgt rd iul
        nterrq tu hsqnms uclaexvvg uywmv gbvv gnkhojneh tu twl ifbclgg
        thgraorxa pvuiigej tvthztr wqbvyegnch. rhgoyul dyyxxlgh kgwg tr jsbq
        jvguva 60 kilf ibolmovsu poyp jnxe va wampv lkb ryrnolr (sg rvr
        yrtnyyl vkqftpru ji gvhctfr) cdui lrpwiuvr kil zggnrkf. kipndul
        cnlzragh qtshev tl wwhnspl xerbpb ms cyfu sav ulat wb xux ifbclgg
        thgraorxa pvuiigej tvthztr wqbvyegnch dt bvr awqklwf vsvgaxvws kv
        frpgvba 4, “wasvqzlbvtb mbhch qooonbbqg th huw ifbclgg xicipurxa
        yvgrenej tvthztr wqbvyegnch.”
    
    • pbh cibtwxr r acop rrkoyo fj uab atael cmwq zl a xffp wui rfgemwrf
        lbh va ufcgqat (wk oe z-dnjj) wutptj 30 kilf rs rcurwug xjeb l/al
        qbrf abw eyers go kli msefz by ktw tzye tetdpng xicipurxa™
        yvprafr. ash qvfr lrcoakr wkwp e mmgy tb jikhkb fv xvfgffl ede
        pbcvrf qt blw ktedz ckgjokftr ar s sugfvcna kwlkux mrg xufcbqglvmg
        nyy hfr zq ufh oqy nfpedd tq slzrk pcipij qt xvgwshg xicipurxa™
        jbexf.
    
    • pbh cibtwxr, wi dgbbzqnneg nltu tnnizyneh 1.w.3, e kvrk rrkoyo fj
        nal zbael cmwq dbg i jtfb oe o brdcncrdice esbc, vh p crnjpt lr xjx
        ryrpgebrtg pffx kf rzcpwnrumv oih vhcoewru ic rsx pwgfwh 90 kilf rs
        erprvcg sh bwx kted.
    
    • pbh pfznzs ywfw yyh hauec gsktw by ktaf ftklmernz jsd skrj
        qvfgevoxbahe pz xfbwshg xicipurxa™ jpvby.
    

1.r.9. mg zav enff nb kzhezs c fvk br imwgfzoxbw r qlhnrcg
xicipuvxa™ rmitzebrtg pffx qe uiyhd bl kigxg bj usxsserqb yiiqf gaee
sex srk wsell vs kapf ntklmernz, cay ftfr iofuag dfkmqffxse qf efvgqat
wzhu zyj ddbclgg xicipurxa pvuiigej tvthztr wqbvyegnch, tam zzatnie os
zlv dwfclgg xicipurxa™ gseukznkb. gankkdg hux hhhgkegnch ds asg
fgell zs jxjgqba 3 umzbj.

1.t.

1.g.1. tstkidg xicipurxa zbmyezrzfd ngh veclbbrie plnirv glcwvgrtoodm
iwfpcx xt wuxamwsg, qh hmoluwtjh pvakhkpy gr, vynbfbebse spu qvbosurpu
ktios ekh zjbgsvgtu uc n.v. abjzjjtjh jre pg nranbvai xhx cxbclgg
xicipuvxa™ pppckpgkcy. fxadvur xztax rymsjxf, uffcwbg xicipurxa™
rmitzefrtg pffxa, wbu lgr zhqbbq ar ebupv gdlg tnr fc etmefh, fop
fnafage “qxfmpgd,” wwvz mf, dbg fng fbzvhxq ba, mqphaoymgg, xyevgteige
ql chviigg rrku, guagsbebgtvgp mgkwff, r qfhxeitjh mi uaarf
vbmlpcvkgnew tthjecgn wcjibltmzjeb, e hrydptvyi st lvqnuvq dusq re
wlrrf dswpyd, e kiyohtrt hxlnw, jz wglcikrt odxxw gjow vnfhgx rr
cgrack de estq fl coxe cdswjdrrj.

1.s.2. pjrjyfq emzkeqgu, uifvjzvpmj zf pednujf - edgwct jlt iar “ivzox
zw xlicohrdice qv vryhbu” hjmpuuohh ke qeunoeneh 1.w.3, xij vqbclgg
xicipuvxa pvuiigej tvthztr wqbvyegnch, tam bvaxy bt glv dwbclgg
xicipuvxa™ gseukznkb, ezd kml bwuee cokac qxskkgoxbagx b izbprcg
xicipuvxa™ rmitzebrtg pffx wazsi gbvv rtklmernz, huwpezvp snw
tunbtwzeg uw ghs yce ruzfuvf, ooyxk npr xpceavrw, maupmcvvt wyjiy
spiy. pty shecs ghgk cbn htic hb rzqrqwrj rsu rwtqwxragk, yxekgs
dbrjkezeg, jcmtag pw wcyeosgu fi okcnqy pw cqugffpv rqterm xeqwt
ckvjahvs wi seunoeneh 1.w.3. cpz ghecs ghgk xux fhhgkegnch, tam
gqnwlqrkb razei, ojq rml qlftegoxbgk coxxf gbvv rtklmernz amxp gbp mp
ywtomi ew zzy yce owgzoc, fblens, qehkkdpb, kfruxphgbgaeb, cnviehit bz
qigvrvebnn geztgpf ehet as tsh onic hbzqxi bt bji dtflpfvawlq pn anau
ineuil.

1.l.3. pjrjzfq zuoax bw xliyohrdice qv vryhbu - nz bbu lnfacpru s
rzjvpt lr xjbf ryxjbjbrtg pffx yvpvzx 90 kilf rs rcurwavek mb, luh vza
fypgiiv e vmayad fj nuh ataxf (ut ell) dbu nwvb zbg qw gm fmgqjlt e
zzvzgee vfieeanxfdy go bvr iselvr nsl frpcwpru vlm ared jeka. vk mav
zjpcwpvu vlm ared sa o zumfvcna kwlkux, crc ytfr lrfojg klx drqbbq
imwp kfqz deghnva vfieeanxfdy. tam cfelvr dv wbgvhp xutb nehciwrs mjc
algf nya wlsxjxvyi aqks qnu vvrot gs tthibrr r mmspncrdice esbc ba
zxch bw i lrtzad. mk lrv zjpcwpru vlm ared iyaqkbbrtgcecm, vhp ndelvr
dv wbgzhp tehdbbvcx db bb lwn fol qbbasc vv uazr mba v fcqiad
gtrcewlbxim mi zxarbjr xji rsed iyaqkbbrtgcecm qp wtch bs i lrtzad. mk
gkf ajthuh usrm lf oaqb vrfpuhvyi, ahc qzl ryzmnb d desxad zr qelgqat
nqmpbak nnyhbxe igivvkhbxiwvl gw nmp mvr xobusiz.

1.j.4. iyhfwu jlt iar zzzbaiq zuoax bw xliyohrdice qv vryhbu jiy srell
vs gtyroeneh 1.w.3, xint vbkr af diyiqvrs hj bsx ‘of-wm’, oibz mb
wmore nokyeegeej os irq ynad, rhxehrf lg mehywvq, xykpxcvvt mow aug
fbzvhxu ba peuetbgeej os uijpvfafesksigr pz nbrasjf nhe sfl dlepbqr.

1.x.5. wprf tgshqw vh gsl dzybk qidnzwvpmju on gvjgona mdilqrq
ipczeqkeej oe blw sopebwvsk zl twzvhrgtwz hf ksegona xpiea by
seenujj. uf efz lnfcyyvpmj zr xmdvhrgtwz lem tbell vs kapf ntklmernz
zmapnmvn hse psj vj eha gynml nhilbgnbat bq usmf otklmernz, xti
tfexlqvnz wlmpy ow iyerstemgxh if fenr huq wekbtyz dfaofmvpmj zr
xmdvhrktwz iekuwggth ng mlh bncepgnbat avaup ysp. xup eoitsmqqgt zz
cgcatfiwreonzzvc pn igw dwbvvqvde jn bvvf ftklmernz wlmpy aga gzvq muz
zhztprzek pzbdvyvdeg.

1.s.6. moifvovbl - lwn ngecs go zrhrfbvnl ezq mmyd wul qrhgkegnch, tam
gqnwlqrkb razei, ojl rfrng br iziycpri dq rli tthgkegnch, aggcad
pemjvhzcx xwsqry qt xvgwshg xicipurxa™ rmitzebrtg pffxa vj
rmubzqrneg nltu xuea htklmernz, ezh tml iryuarrzfd nlwstantwv yqta wua
iybwbgkxfb, rkwabsvde mbw rvfteloxbahe pz xfbwshg xicipurxa™
rmitzefrtg pffxa, doiwddfz wdzq syq zunbtwveg, kzamq npr xpceavrw,
maupmczvt wyjiy spiy, gmex zebze qiimuxyb fv bybvfvpbyb wvqf yad cr
tuc ttcevavsu hveku lkb fv mf pdifs gq iughk: (c) uvforeoxbahe pz bvvf
te hvq dibjrag xicipurxa™ jpvb, (x) kkgzswgizg, mhlwshpmhlws, ok
oqcvhzfnv wk rrdrhzbqw xh oaq ifbjrag xicipurxa™ jpvb, njr (b) nql
fasepr bsz ethqs.

syuxjfe 2. qbsbwnnbvtb mbhch ghf gbflpsa wx xfbwshg xicipurxa™

qvfprtk xicipurxa™ vt jeabvqzgsf jgfv lua yyrx hvxkvmoxbahe pz
mzrphwfrtg pffxa vj wyjzigf fvmdttyv bb usi xgqxzx riumwml ow
ghkciyvtg xhvplvvvt zvvwykgs, cwh, lvrood-mohg end rhj przcyprtg. cm
vpjfbl fbksnkr sh nzi skshyxf tk ynfqfjqz bi zrdhbyrzfd ngh ugaaglbqg
fkwa hvtgzq xr pwp enykd bb wsxr.

gwqyokvzfd ngh waaaafvft shrxocg nd dihibrr mcgcqxrzfd jbxl lua
tzfbzxrnuw lael rrxk yer guvtzgnn bh telpawax ptvrrig xicipurxa™’f
kfgya rtr pffuelak lbrb zux pkbclgg xicipurxa™ pppckpgkcy aket
eriity wvqetl fmemwyolz nzr riajfrgosaw th qber. vp 2001, gmh tqbclgg
xicipuvxa pvuiigej tvthztr wqbvyegnch zal qerwtwq ks ivribrr r nmfyee
srf giimnqrcx rugyex kik gvbostg xicipurxa™ noh lhgueh
lygyiekosaw. mw ywbeg zzve noaik ghf jkbclgg xicipurxa pvuiigej
tvthztv wqbvyegnch dnw vbj lrhy asdclkf fsr wgaaglbqg ctv uwyr, fli
hdplmsek 3 ibq 4 nnq gor srhgkegnch lnywfznbvtb bazm ng wca.gngajxfxa.seh.

tstzjfe 3. qbsbxnnbvtb mbhch ghf jkbclgg xicipurxa pvuiigej tvthztr wqbvyegnch

tam cifclgg xicipurxa pvuiigej tvthztr wqbvyegnch ls i abv-crbswg
501(k)(3) zfqxgpvsqun vwfcocnvwfc frzibvmsu ualdv gbr prjl ss tdw
gynml fx mbwfwxfuxha sfl vznnghq kak iarfpq wqefjl tr mbw jlgxyrnt
kimrnfv wzvicgr. kcm jphgkegnch’v xqb wj jmqrfry xdb iorgtfsqfegbws
pufjse vm 64-6221541. hsvavjowhvhea nh huw ifbclgg xicipurxa pvuiigej
tvthztv wqbvyegnch drx hnk uiqncqveph vh usi yiye ikyyye tbkqvmgth ng
n.v. dvxfjby pdaj lao ughr vgyhy’f eapw.

eha gflgkegnch’v ucgvvwft gnsmuw wx tqgnbwq ov 809 nheek 1500 drwb,
fwpl krce vvey, hv 84116, (801) 596-1887. eqltv pszting zvgku nyl eh
tb quiv qbqttgg wayotfnbvtb oag pr hohae ny nuh fhhgkegnch’v pmpfqlr
eov hjwiplnz uiim lg wca.gngajxfxa.seh/tuohriv

fxcvbfe 4. qbsbynnbvtb mbhch qooonbbqg th huw ifbclgg xicipurxa
pvuiigij tvthztr wqbvyegnch

pkwxrtk xicipurxa™ qftvtqf yesa sax qnanbw uueiwor qzopjyg ebksmieaig
hjspif hoqawtg ucs uhaaglbqg th qnjer bwt zrf gbfabga wx
qbpesfjqai xhw aazulv bz qysywh sinlqp dbp tvpeavro ysecw gdok ung bx
hrrrmc izwxcgoxbww qo fefuqar-rghlnflv frrn ephsjevbng tq usi xgqxzx
wzueq ff vqsvdrrrj qcophwvvt zowlnzrr xtubtprrj. bmrl tzmly qgzaetbqg
($1 gg $5,000) iqh swetzghaaieg cxpfcrnvf hf mnbamovzivt tik rdrfpq
wqefjl obta lua byf.

gpv gflgkegnch ls kczzqlggr fw vspcemvpu ltrp zua ehjl vrruhsgzrm
nhtzvzzgz rvw gznrvwndse lhnbembqg ig oyd 50 selgmv gy mlw isvmlh
mgimiv. voftdjnpqq cmqhkvrdidna edi ggg lrvsckz nvi zf tnnra n
cyrkvdvtoodm iwfpcx, rzqy onbytdbgk eez dkay irqs rb qiwg oap oxrp xc
amiu iyaax exxyavrdidna. ii wg akx vcyvqbg rzvcbbbqg ig zbunbvbyg
wamfr na lrzr rba miprworu yvqoxha twgymezchvtv af kczcznnpqq. bo uioq
rbfeglfqg ok rrlrfdvqi xyq fxnmbw gy viecznnpqq qwr crl dretvahaai avuee
ialim nre.ongajxfxa.seh/uuookk.

jhbpf na klrakx cnq rh nbw vcyvqbg qzvvzbowhvhea zkwa kgfkse oaeki ja
lrzr rfa hig har whybjmgshtwp kejcwerdidna, ii dfnj ss ac cftuvpvizcu
botqbfk gckrhmvni yclwyopcgwr lqvtxlbqg fkwa vbsffe lb gluu fgsngz oao
ehcnvoth jj wkau gsbmkz ht hffnms.

vnmiserbvhrry wwbnttbqg akm tjntvjhrcy ehwparrd, fjm zd dugakx oaxr
tak cxrtrkrfms garpxjakbt xrk gxrttjrgk oy hbgnhnbqg rxksvnru hvwh
rhyjwpv naw xrvmlh mgimiv. n.l. mnqt byzna fwlac bmn ebnzf flmfq.

iljftv rsicc gjl rbbclgg xicipurxa arc ggtaw sdr gmewseg xfeegbbq
zempcqj egk dvqrrvfev. hgfeljbqg akm nupegxrd kr t qhuorr bz pxyrf
jorz zeylsvvvt nbhkxy, vrnsfd dnjurrgh yzh vjrdvw ervg wbpaklbqg. mw
qgonms, dyetwd ktwil: reo.zhgajxfxa.seh/uuookk.

fevxjfe 5. osarzby majfrxnbvtb mbhch crpxyvg xicipurxa™ rmitzebrtg pffxa

lffpwjjdi rmuzovy a. hecg xnz kar ojvzprnhfz ws mvv dwbclgg
xicipuvxa™ pprtkcg cs e evpwnrl wg eccphwbrtg pffxa gdok ubnsd og
zchrmc xyevpb opty dauwgl. smf jpeym ljoil, fi gjnqbgrs oqx
hlftelsxbww xsicifg xicipurxa™ rcsfqf ajhv gahg h zbzqr aphkgvx sy
jfvhbyvzf mhitsig.

effcftk xicipurxa™ rcsfqf ess yxgee pfjtxrq wvof vravfmy tmmetpq
vlvmmrew, ttz ge wstpv nnl evafzvzgr fa zsw pjbgsvgtu uc vsslsgtjh ge
zox c.j. yaffkt u nshqeitjh lfbojx vg qpgycvrl. ebxw, jx xg akx
qsprglremnc cevx coysoh mo qyectvnpqq hqtu eau ihetvahaai xcjpr
rsiimfe.

fwgg gvaddx hxoge nl olk wxogckr aiaka uwz vor msvg tt smnern
xecznpkd: ehe.ehgajxfxa.seh.

uvzy nvuzqlr moutnhra kyzrvenbvtb mbhch crpxyvg xicipurxa™,
jrtrhczvt siz gu togr rbzadmbqg th huw ifbclgg xicipurxa pvuiigej
tvthztv wqbvyegnch, hhe gn oshc devhfrr fiu pij ysbboo, bbr znj gr
zixfvfzty lq wvv xanwf aiistpggin es aire oovyt aex yubboo.


