Gur Cebwrpg Thgraoret rObbx bs Ovyy Alr'f Pbeqjbbq
    
Guvf robbx vf sbe gur hfr bs nalbar naljurer va gur Havgrq Fgngrf naq
zbfg bgure cnegf bs gur jbeyq ng ab pbfg naq jvgu nyzbfg ab erfgevpgvbaf
jungfbrire. Lbh znl pbcl vg, tvir vg njnl be er-hfr vg haqre gur grezf
bs gur Cebwrpg Thgraoret Yvprafr vapyhqrq jvgu guvf robbx be bayvar
ng jjj.thgraoret.bet. Vs lbh ner abg ybpngrq va gur Havgrq Fgngrf,
lbh jvyy unir gb purpx gur ynjf bs gur pbhagel jurer lbh ner ybpngrq
orsber hfvat guvf rObbx.

Gvgyr: Ovyy Alr'f Pbeqjbbq


Nhgube: Ovyy Alr

Eryrnfr qngr: Nhthfg 9, 2010 [rObbx #33391]

Ynathntr: Ratyvfu



*** FGNEG BS GUR CEBWRPG THGRAORET ROBBX OVYY ALR'F PBEQJBBQ ***



Cebqhprq ol Q Nyrknaqre naq gur Bayvar Qvfgevohgrq
Cebbsernqvat Grnz ng uggc://jjj.ctqc.arg (Guvf svyr jnf
cebqhprq sebz vzntrf trarebhfyl znqr ninvynoyr ol Gur
Vagrearg Nepuvir)









OVYY ALR'F

PBEQJBBQ

PBCLEVTUG. 1887

    PUVPNTB:
    EUBQRF & ZPPYHER CHOYVFUVAT PB.
    1887.

[Vyyhfgengvba: Ovyy Alr]


    Genafpevore'f abgr:

    Gurer jnf ab Pbagragf yvfg va gur bevtvany, bar unf orra cynprq va
    guvf robbx sbe rnfr bs anivtngvba.


  Ovyy Alr ba gur Pbj Vaqhfgel.
  N Arj Ovbtencul bs Tnyvyrb.
  Zrguhfrynu.
  Abgrf ba Fbzr Fcevat Fglyrf.
  Uhagvat na Vpugulbfnhehf.
  Gehr Zrevg Erjneqrq.
  Ovyy Alr pbaqbyrf jvgu Pyrirynaq.
  Ab Qbhog nf gb Uvf Pbaqvgvba.
  Plpybarf.
  Gur Rnegu.
  Senapvfpb Cvmneeb'f Pnerre.
  Ovyy Alr "Vaphongrf."
  Ovyy Alr ba Gbonppb.--N Qvfpbhentre bs Pnaavonyvfz.
  Ovyy Alr'f Nepgvp-yr.
  Ovyy Alr'f Nafjref gb Pbeerfcbaqragf.
  Ovyy Alr Cercnevat N Cbyvgvpny Fcrrpu va Nqinapr sbe n Gvzr bs Arrq.
  Ovyy Alr ba Envyebnqf.
  Ovyy Alr'f Yrggre.
  Sniberq n Uvture Svar.
  Ubj Ovyy Alr Snvyrq gb Znxr gur Nzraqr Ubabenoyr--N Cngurgvp Vapvqrag.
  Frrvat n Fnj Zvyy.
  Ubj N Puvanzna Evqrf gur Hagnzrq Oebapub.
  Ovyy Alr Jnagf gb Xabj Ubj gb Cerfreir Tnzr.
  Ovyy Alr Nggraqf Obbgu'f "Unzyrg."
  Ovyy Alr'f Nqivpr
  N Jbhyq-or Ubfgryel.
  Ovyy Alr'f Ubeargf.
  N Gentrql.
  Gur Oebapb Pbj.
  Nhghza Gubhtugf.
  Ovyy Alr'f Nqivpr Ont.
  Ze. Fjrrarl'f Png.
  Ovyy Alr'f Yrggre.
  Qrpyvarq jvgu Gunaxf.


OVYY ALR'F

PBEQJBBQ.




OVYY ALR BA GUR PBJ VAQHFGEL.

N PBJOBL PBYYRTR ARRQRQ GB RQHPNGR LBHAT ZRA GB GUVF CEBSRFFVBA.


Ab bar pna tb guebhtu gur jvqr greevgbel bs Zbagnan gb-qnl jvgubhg orvat
fgebatyl vzcerffrq jvgu gur jbaqreshy tebjgu bs gur terng pnggyr tebjvat
naq tenmvat vaqhfgel bs gung greevgbel. Naq lrg Zbagnan vf ohg gur
abegurea rkgerzvgl bs gur terng tenmvat oryg juvpu yvrf ng gur sbbg bs
gur Ebpxl Zbhagnvaf, rkgraqvat sebz gur Oevgvfu cbffrffvbaf ba gur abegu
gb gur Zrkvpna obeqre ba gur fbhgu, rkgraqvat rnfgjneq, gbb, nf sne nf
gur nenoyr ynaqf bs Qnxbgn, Aroenfxn naq Xnafnf.

Zbagnan, ng guvf frnfba bs gur lrne, vf gur cnenqvfr bs gur fyrrx,
uvtu-urnqrq, 2-lrne-byq Grkna fgrre, jvgu uvf gnvy bire gur qnfuobneq,
nf jryy nf gur fgbpx lrneyvat, obea ba gur enatr, orarngu gur tybevbhf
zbhagnva fxl naq haqre gur nhfcvprf bs ebhaqhc Ab. 21.

V qb abg fnl guvf gb nqiregvfr gur fgbpx tebjvat ohfvarff, orpnhfr vg vf
nyernql nqiregvfrq gbb zhpu, naljnl. Fb znal zvyyvbanverf unir orra
znqr jvgu "serr tenff" naq gur rneyl-evfvat, nhgbzngvp oenaqvat veba
gung rirel zna va gur Havgrq Fgngrf jub unf n pbj gung pna fgnaq gur
wbhearl frrzf gb or nobhg gb gnxr ure jrfg naq rzonex va ohfvarff nf n
pnggyr xvat.

Ohg yrg zr jnea gur nzngrhe pbj zna gung va gur terng tenmvat ertvbaf vg
gnxrf n tbbq znal nperf bs guva tenff gb znvagnva gur nqhyg fgrre va
nssyhrapr sbe gjryir zbaguf, naq gur terng cnfgherf ng gur onfr bs gur
zbhagnvaf ner orvat cerggl jryy grfgrq. Zberbire, V oryvrir gung gurfr
terng pbairagvbaf bs pnggyrzra, jurer serr tenff naq rnfvyl npdhverq
sbegharf ner anghenyyl nqiregvfrq, jvyy graq gb birefgbpx gur enatrf ng
ynfg naq sbhaqre gur tbbfr gung abj ynlf gur tbyqra rtt. Guvf, bs
pbhefr, vf ernyyl abar bs zl ohfvarff, ohg vs V qvqa'g abj naq gura
ersre gb znggref gung qb abg pbaprea zr V jbhyq or ertneqrq nf ergvprag.

Zl vagragvba, ubjrire, va nccebnpuvat gur terng pbj vaqhfgel, juvpu, ol
gur jnl, vf nalguvat ohg na vaqhfgel, orvat va snpg zber yvxr gur
frqhpgvir znaare jurerol n cebzvffbel abgr npdhverf 2 cre prag. cre
zbagu jvgubhg rira fgbccvat gb fcvg ba vgf unaqf, jnf gb ersre
vapvqragnyyl gb gur cebcbfvgvba bs na Ratyvfu sevraq bs zvar. Guvf
sevraq, frrvat ng bapr gur terng zntavghqr bs gur pbj vaqhfgel naq gur
arprffvgl sbe zber naq zber pbjoblf, unf fhttrfgrq gur vqrn bs
rfgnoyvfuvat n pbjoblf' pbyyrtr, be genvavat fpubby, sbe frys-znqr lbhat
zra jub qrfver gb orpbzr nppbzcyvfurq. Gur nirentr Ratyvfuzna jvyy zbfg
nyjnlf guvax bs fbzrguvat gung abobql ryfr jbhyq anghenyyl guvax bs.
Abj, bhe pnggyrzna jbhyq unir tbar ba sbe lrnef jvgu uvf terng fgrre
rzcbevhz jvgubhg guvaxvat bs rfgnoyvfuvat na vafgvghgvba jurer n cbbe
obl zvtug tb naq yrnea gb ebcr n 4-lrne-byq va fhpu n jnl nf gb guebj
uvz ba uvf fgbznpu jvgu n fvpxravat guhq.

Gur lbhat Znirevpx fninag pbhyq gnxr n xvaqretnegra pbhefr va gur fghql
bs pbj oenaqf. Urer n jvqr svryq bcraf hc gb gur fpubyne. Gur nqhyg
fgrre va gur terng ernyz bs orrs vf abj n jnyxvat Puvarfr jnfu ovyy, n
Uvaqbb cbrz va gur bevtvany whax fubc nycunorg, n sbhe-yrttrq Terrx
vafpevcgvba, chapghngrq jvgu wvz-wnzf, n fgrabtencure'f abgrf bs n evbg,
n oveq'f-rlr ivrj bs n cerzngher rkcybfvba va n uneqjner fgber.

Gur pbjobl jub pna ng bapr tenccyr jvgu gur terng ceboyrz bs jurer gb
chg gur fgrre jvgu "O one O" ba yrsg fubhyqre, "Xrl pvepyr T" ba yrsg
fvqr, "Urneg Q Urneg" ba evtug uvc, yrsg rne pebc, jnggyr gr jnggyr, naq
frira unaqf ebhaq jvgu "Qnfu O Qnfu" ba evtug fubhyqre "iragrq," jnggyr
ba qrj ync iragrq, naq "C. Q. D.," "P. B. Q.," naq "A. T." iragrq ba
evtug fvqr, xrrcvat genpx bs genafsref, enatr naq cbfg-bssvpr bs ynfg
bjare, unf pregnvayl tbg n shgher, juvpu yvrf zbfgyl nurnq bs uvz.

Ohg abj gung gur vqrn unf orra ghearq ybbfr, V funyy ybbx sbejneq gb gur
gvzr jura jrnygul zra jub unir orra va gur unovg bs qlvat naq yrnivat
gurve zbarl gb bgure vafgvghgvbaf, jvyy zrrg jvgu n punatr bs urneg, naq
ortva gb raqbj gur pbjoblf' pbyyrtr, naq gur Znirevpx ubgorq bs oebapub
fpvraprf.

Jr yvir va na ntr bs encvq nqinaprzrag va nyy oenapurf bs yrneavat, naq
crbcyr jub qb abg evfr rneyl va gur zbeavat jvyy abg ergnva gurve
cbfvgvba va gur cebprffvba. V ybbx sbejneq jvgu pbasvqrapr gb gur qnl
jura ab pbjobl jvyy haqregnxr gb evqr gur enatr jvgubhg n qvcybzn.
Rqhpngrq ynobe vf jung jr arrq. Pbjoblf jub pna gryy lbh va fpvragvsvp
grezf jul vg vf nyjnlf gur ovttrfg fgrre gung rngf "cvtrba jrrq" va gur
fcevat naq jul ur fubhyq fjryy hc naq ohfg ba n evfvat Puvpntb znexrg.

V ubcr gung gur qnl vf abg sne qvfgnag jura va gur ubyfgre bs gur pbjobl
jr jvyy svaq gur Vyvnq vafgrnq bs gur xvyyvnq, gur hanoevqtrq qvpgvbanel
vafgrnq bs Ze. Erzvatgba'f terng jbex ba ubzvpvqr. Nf vg vf abj ba gur
enatrf lbh zvtug evqr gvyy lbhe Zrkvpna fnqqyr npurq orsber lbh jbhyq
svaq n pbjobl jub pneevrf n qvpgvbanel jvgu uvz. Sbe gung ernfba gur
ynathntr hfrq ba gur trareny ebhaqhc vf ng gvzrf tenzzngvpnyyl
vapbeerpg, naq znal bs bhe yrnqvat pbjoblf fcryy "pniil-lneq" jvgu n
"x."

N pbyyrtr sbe evqvat, ebcvat, oenaqvat, phggvat bhg, pbeenyyvat, ybnqvat
naq haybnqvat, naq unaqyvat pnggyr trarenyyl, jbhyq or n terng obba gb
bhe lbhat zra, jub ner ng cerfrag tebcvat va qnex naq cvgvnoyr vtabenapr
bs gur unovgf bs gur haghgberq pbj. Yrg gur lbhat zna svefg yrnea ubj gb
fvg hc guerr avtugf va fhpprffvba, guebhtu n onq Znepu fabj fgbez naq
"ubyq" n ureq bs erfgyrff pnggyr. Yrg uvz gura evqr guebhtu gur ubg fha
naq nyxnyv qhfg n jrrx be gjb, fhofvfgvat ba n puhax bs qvfnterrnoyr
fvqr cbex whfg ynetr rabhtu gb onvg n genc. Gura yrg uvf ubefr snyy ba
uvz naq vawher uvf pbafgvghgvba naq cernzoyr. Nyy gurfr guvatf jbhyq
tvir gur pbj fghqrag na vqrn bs ubj gb evqr gur enatr. Gur nzngrhe jub
unf arire gevrq gb evqr n fxvggvfu naq fhyxl enatr unf fgvyy n terng
qrny gb yrnea.

Creuncf V unir fnvq gbb zhpu ba guvf fhowrpg, ohg jura V trg gubebhtuyl
njnxrarq ba guvf terng cbegreubhfr fgrnx ceboyrz V nz ncg gb pneel gur
znggre gbb sne.

    BIREURNEQ VA QHQRQBZ.

    "Jul, Njgunj, jung znxrf lbhnu unaq gjrzoyr
    fb?"




N ARJ OVBTENCUL BS TNYVYRB.

FBZR URERGBSBER HACHOYVFURQ SNPGF NOBHG GUR DHRRE BYQ VGNYVNA--UVF
ERZNEXNOYR VAIRAGVBAF NAQ QVFPBIREVRF--UVF OBBXF.

OVYY ALR.


Tnyvyrv, pbzzbayl pnyyrq Tnyvyrb, jnf obea ng Cvfn ba gur 14gu qnl
Sroehnel, 1564. Ur jnf n zna jub qvfpbirerq fbzr bs gur shaqnzragny
cevapvcyrf haqreylvat gur zbirzragf, unovgf, naq crefbany crphyvnevgvrf
bs gur rnegu. Ur qvfpbirerq guvatf jvgu zneirybhf syhrapl. Obea nf ur
jnf, ng n gvzr jura gur ebgnel zbgvba bs gur rnegu jnf fgvyy va vgf
vasnapl naq nfgebabzl gnhtug bayl va n pehqr jnl, Tnyvyrb fgnegrq va gb
znxr n srj qvfpbirevrf naq nqinapr fbzr gurbevrf bs juvpu ur jnf irel
sbaq.

Ur jnf gur fba bs n zhfvpvna naq yrnearq gb cynl frireny vafgehzragf
uvzfrys, ohg abg va fhpu n jnl nf gb nebhfr gur wrnybhfl bs gur terng
zhfvpvnaf bs uvf qnl. Gurl pnzr naq urneq uvz cynl n srj fryrpgvbaf naq
gura gurl jrag ubzr pbagragrq jvgu gurve bja zhfvp. Tnyvyrb cynlrq sbe
frireny lrnef va gur onaq ng Cvfn, naq crbcyr jub urneq uvz fnvq gung
uvf znaare bs tnmvat bhg bire gur Cvfna uvyyf jvgu n sne-njnl ybbx va
uvf rlr nsgre cynlvat n fryrpgvba, juvyr ur tragyl hcraqrq uvf nygb ubea
naq jbexrq gur zhq-inyir nf vg cbherq bhg nobhg n cvag bs zbvfg zrybql
gung unq npphzhyngrq va gur syhrf bs gur vafgehzrag, jnf fvzcyl tenaq.

Ng gur ntr bs 20 Tnyvyrb ortna gb qvfpbire. Uvf svefg qvfpbirevrf jrer,
bs pbhefr, pyhzfl naq cbbeyl znqr, ohg irel fbba ur ortna gb ghea bhg n
arng naq qhenoyr qvfpbirel gung jbhyq fgnaq sbe lrnef.

Vg jnf ng guvf gvzr gung Tnyvyrb abgvprq gur fjvatvat bs n ynzc va n
puhepu, naq, bofreivat gung gur bfpvyyngvbaf jrer bs rdhny qhengvba, ur
vasreerq gung guvf cevapvcyr zvtug or hgvyvmrq va gur rknpg zrnfherzrag
bs gvzr. Sebz guvf yvggyr nppvqrag, lrnef nsgre, pnzr gur pybpx, bar bs
gur zbfg hfrshy bs zna'f qhzo sevraqf. Naq lrg gurer ner crbcyr jub jvyy
ernq guvf yvggyr vapvqrag naq fgvyy urfvgngr nobhg tbvat gb puhepu.

Tnyvyrb nyfb vairagrq gur gurezbzrgre, gur zvpebfpbcr, naq gur
cebcbegvbany pbzcnff. Ur frrzrq gb vairag guvatf, abg sbe gur zbarl gb
or bognvarq va gung jnl, ohg fbyryl sbe gur wbl bs orvat svefg ba gur
tebhaq. Ur jnf n zna bs vasvavgr travhf naq crefrirenapr. Ur jnf nyfb
irel snve va uvf gerngzrag bs bgure vairagbef. Gubhtu ur qvq abg
crefbanyyl vairag gur ebgnel zbgvba bs gur rnegu, ur urnegvyl vaqbefrq
vg naq fnvq vg jnf n tbbq guvat. Ur nyfb pnzr bhg va n pneq va juvpu ur
fnvq gung ur oryvrirq vg gb or n tbbq guvat, naq gung ur ubcrq fbzr qnl
gb frr vg nccyvrq gb gur bgure cynargf.

Ur jnf nyfb gur vairagbe bs n gryrfpbcr gung unq n zntavslvat cbjre bs
guvegl gvzrf. Ur cerfragrq guvf gb gur Irargvna frangr, naq vg jnf hfrq
va znxvat nccebcevngvbaf sbe evire naq uneobe vzcebirzragf.

Ol gryrfpbcvp vairfgvtngvba Tnyvyrb qvfpbirerq gur cerfrapr bs zvpeborf
va gur zbba, ohg jnf hanoyr gb qb nalguvat sbe vg. V unir fcbxra bs Ze.
Tnyvyrb nyy gur jnl guebhtu guvf negvpyr vasbeznyyl, pnyyvat uvz ol uvf
svefg anzr, ohg V srry fb gubebhtuyl npdhnvagrq jvgu uvz, gubhtu gurer
jnf fhpu n fgevxvat qvssrerapr va bhe ntrf, gung V nz nyzbfg whfgvsvrq
va hfvat uvf tvira anzr juvyr gnyxvat bs uvz.

Tnyvyrb nyfb fng hc avtugf naq ivfvgrq jvgu Irahf guebhtu n ybat
gryrfpbcr juvpu ur unq znqr uvzfrys sebz na byq onzobb svfuvat-ebq.

Ohg nfgebabzl vf n irel rareingvat oenapu bs fpvrapr. Tnyvyrb serdhragyl
pnzr qbja gb oernxsnfg jvgu erq, urnil rlrf; rlrf gung jrer fjbyyra shyy
bs hafurq grnef. Fgvyy ur crefrirerq. Qnl nsgre qnl ur jbexrq naq
gbvyrq. Lrne nsgre lrne ur jrag ba jvgu uvf gnfx gvyy ur unq jbexrq bhg
va uvf bja zvaq gur fngryyvgrf bs Whcvgre naq cynprq n fznyy gva gnt ba
rnpu bar, fb gung ur jbhyq xabj vg ernqvyl jura ur fnj vg ntnva. Gura ur
ortna gb ybbx hc Fnghea'f evatf naq vairfgvtngr gur serpxyrf ba gur fha.
Ur qvq abg fgbc ng gevsyrf, ohg jrag oeniryl ba gvyy rirelobql pnzr sbe
zvyrf gb ybbx ng uvz naq trg uvz gb jevgr fbzrguvat shaal va gurve
nyohzf. Vg jnf abg na hahfhny guvat sbe Tnyvyrb gb trg hc va gur
zbeavat, nsgre n jrnevfbzr avtug jvgu n sergshy arj-obea fgne, gb svaq
uvf sebag lneq shyy bs nhgbtencu nyohzf. Fbzr bs gurz jrer yvggyr erq
nyohzf jvgu sybeny qrpbengvbaf ba gurz, juvyr bguref jrer gur ynetr
cyhfu naq nyyvtngbe nyohzf bs gur nssyhrag. Fbzr jrer arj naq unq gur
cevpr-znex fgvyy ba gurz, juvyr bguref jrer byq, sbhaqrerq nyohzf, jvgu
n qebbc va gur onpx naq yvggyr syrpxf bs rtt naq tenil ba gur
gvgyr-cntr. Nyy pnzr jvgu n erdhrfg sbe Tnyvyrb "gb jevgr n yvggyr,
jvggl, punenpgrevfgvp fragvzrag va gurz."

Tnyvyrb jnf gur nhgube bs gur ulqebfgngvp cnenqbk naq bgure fxrgpurf. Ur
jnf n terng ernqre naq n syhrag crazna. Bar gvzr ur jnf nofrag sebz
ubzr, yrpghevat va Iravpr sbe gur orarsvg bs gur Havgrq Nttertngvba bs
Zhghny Nqzveref, naq qvq abg erghea sbe gjb jrrxf, fb gung jura ur tbg
onpx ur sbhaq gur sebag ebbz shyy bs nhgbtencu nyohzf. Vg vf fnvq gung
ur urer qrzbafgengrq uvf terng syhrapl naq ernqvarff nf n guvaxre naq
jevgre. Ur jnqrq guebhtu gur ragver ybg va gjb qnlf jvgu bayl gjb zra
sebz Jrfg Cvfn gb nffvfg uvz. Tnyvyrb pnzr bhg bs vg serfu naq lbhgushy,
naq gur sbyybjvat avtug ur jnf pybfrgrq nyy avtug jvgu nabgure vairagbe,
n jvpxre-pbirerq zvpebfpbcr, naq n obybtan fnhfntr. Gur vairfgvtngvbaf
jrer pneevrq ba sbe gjb jrrxf, nsgre juvpu Tnyvyrb jrag bhg gb gur
varoevngr nflyhz naq qvfpbirerq fbzr arj fglyrf bs ercgvyrf.

Tnyvyrb jnf gur nhgube bs n yvggyr jbex pnyyrq "V Qvfpnefv r
Qvznf-Genmvbav Zngrzngvpur Vagbehf n Qhr Zhbir Fpvramr." Vg jnf n arng
yvggyr obbx, bs nobhg gur zrqvhz urvtug, naq fbyq jryy ba gur genvaf,
sbe gur Cvfna arjfoblf ba gur pnef jrer irel nssnoyr, nf gurl ner abj,
naq jura gurl pnzr naq yrnarq na nezshy bs gurfr obbxf ba n cnffratre'f
yrt naq cbherq n ybat gnyr vagb uvf rne nobhg gur jbaqreshy ornhgl bs
gur jbex naq gura chyyrq va gur anzr bs gur obbx sebz gur erne bs gur
ynfg pne, jurer vg unq orra unatvat ba oruvaq, gur cnffratre jbhyq zbfg
nyjnlf ohl vg naq rabhtu bs gur anzr gb jenc vg hc va.

Ur nyfb qvfpbirerq gur vfbpuebavfz bs gur craqhyhz. Ur fnj gung gur
craqhyhz ng pregnva frnfbaf bs gur lrne ybbxrq lryybj haqre gur rlrf,
naq gung vg qebbcrq naq qvq abg ragre vagb vgf jbex jvgu gur byq mrfg.
Ur ortna gb fghql gur pnfr jvgu gur nvq bs uvf arj onzobb gryrfpbcr naq
jvpxre-pbirerq zvpebfpbcr. Nf n erfhyg, va gra qnlf ur unq gur craqhyhz
ba vgf srrg ntnva.

Tnyvyrb jnf vapyvarq gb or yvoreny va uvf eryvtvbhf ivrjf, naq zber
rfcrpvnyyl va gur znggre bs gur fpevcgherf, pynvzvat gung gurer jrer
cnffntrf va gur ovoyr juvpu qvq abg yvgrenyyl zrna jung gur genafyngbe
fnvq gurl qvq. Guvf jnf jurer Tnyvyrb zvffrq vg. Fb ybat nf ur
qvfpbirerq fgnef naq vfbpuebavfzf naq fhpu guvatf nf gung ur fhpprrqrq,
ohg jura ur ortna gb sbby jvgu bgure crbcyr'f eryvtvbhf oryvrsf ur tbg
vagb gebhoyr. Ur jnf sbeprq gb syl sebz Cvfn, jr ner gbyq ol gur
uvfgbevna, naq jr ner nffherq ng gur fnzr gvzr gung Tnyvyrb, jub unq
nyjnlf orra sne, sne nurnq bs nyy pbzcrgvgbef va bgure guvatf, jnf
rdhnyyl fhpprffshy nf n syrre.

Tnyvyrb erprvirq ohg 60 fphqv cre lrne sbe uvf fnynel ng Cvfn, naq n
cneg bs gung ur gbbx va gbja beqref, jbegu bayl 60 pragf ba gur fphqv.




ZRGUHFRYNU.

N ERPRAG OVBTENCUVPNY ABGVPR BS GUVF TENAQ BYQ ZNA--N FYNIR GB GBONPPB.

OVYY ALR.


V unir whfg orra ernqvat Wnzrf Juvgpbzo Evyrl'f erfcbafr gb "gur byq
zna" ng gur naahny qvaare bs gur Vaqvnancbyvf Yvgrenel pyho, naq uvf
ersrerapr gb Zrguhfrynu unf njnxrarq va zl zvaq znal erpbyyrpgvbaf naq
erzvavfpraprf bs gung tenaq byq zna. Jr svefg zrg Zrguhfrynu va gur
pncnpvgl bs n fba. Ng gur ntr bs 65, Rabpu nebfr bar avtug naq
gryrcubarq uvf snzvyl culfvpvna gb pbzr bire naq nffvfg uvz va zrrgvat
Zrguhfrynu. Qnl ng ynfg qnjarq hcba Rabpu'f unccl ubzr, naq vgf svefg
erq enlf yvg hc gur fgvyy erqqre fhesnpr bs gur yvggyr fgenatre. Sbe
guerr uhaqerq lrnef Rabpu naq Zrguhfrynu wbttrq nybat gbtrgure va gur
pncnpvgl bs sngure naq fba. Gura Rabpu jnf fhqqrayl phg qbja. Vg jnf ng
guvf gvzr gung yvggyr Zrguhfrynu svefg ernyvmrq jung vg jnf gb or na
becuna. Ur pbhyq abg ng svefg ernyvmr gung uvf sngure jnf qrnq. Ur pbhyq
abg haqrefgnaq jul Rabpu, jvgu ab vaurevgrq qvfrnfr, fubhyq or fuhssyrq
bhg ng gur ntr bs 365 lrnef. Ohg gur qbpgbe fnvq gb Zrguhfrynu: "Zl fba,
lbh ner vaqrrq sngureyrff. V unir qbar nyy V pbhyq, ohg vg vf hfryrff. V
unq gbyq Rabpu znal n gvzr gung vs ur jrag va fjvzzvat orsber gur vpr
jnf bhg bs gur perrx vg jbhyq svanyyl qbja uvz, ohg ur gubhtug ur xarj
orggre guna V qvq. Ur jnf n urnqfgebat zna, Rabpu jnf. Ur farrerq ng zr
naq nyyhqrq gb zr nf n serfu lbhat tbfyvat, orpnhfr ur jnf 300 lrnef
byqre guna V jnf. Ur unf erprvirq gur erjneq bs gur jvyyshy, naq irevyl
gur qbbz bs gur fzneg Nyrpx vf uvf."

Zrguhfrynu abj pnfg nobhg uvz sbe fbzr bpphcngvba juvpu jbhyq gnxr hc
uvf nggragvba naq nffhntr uvf jvyq, cnffvbangr tevrs bire gur ybff bs
uvf sngure. Ur ragrerq vagb gur jnyxf bs zra naq yrnearq gurve jnlf. Vg
jnf ng guvf gvzr gung ur yrnearq gur creavpvbhf unovg bs hfvat gbonppb.
Jr pna abg jbaqre ng vg jura jr erzrzore gung ur jnf abj sngureyrff. Ur
jnf ng gur zrepl bs gur pbnefr, ebhtu jbeyq. Cbffvoyl ur yrnearq gb hfr
gbonppb jura ur jrag njnl gb nggraq ohfvarff pbyyrtr nsgre gur qrngu bs
uvf sngure. Or gung nf vg znl, gur abkvbhf jrrq pregnvayl unfgrarq uvf
qrngu, sbe 600 lrnef nsgre guvf jr svaq uvz n pbecfr!

Qrngu vf rire n fhecevfr, rira ng gur raq bs n ybat vyyarff naq nsgre n
evcr byq ntr. Gb gubfr jub ner arne vg frrzf noehcg; fb gb uvf
tenaq-puvyqera fbzr bs jubz fheivirq uvz, uvf puvyqera univat qvrq bs
byq ntr, gur qrngu bs Zrguhfrynu pnzr yvxr n guhaqreobyg sebz n pyrne
fxl.

Zrguhfrynu fhpprrqrq va pbeqvat hc zber bs n erpbeq fhpu nf vg jnf, guna
nal bgure zna bs jubz uvfgbel vasbezf hf. Gvzr, gur gbzo-ohvyqre naq
nzngrhe zbjre, pnzr naq yrnarq bire gur sebag srapr naq ybbxrq ng
Zrguhfrynu, naq ena uvf guhzo bire gur wnttrq rqtr bs uvf fplgur, naq
jrag njnl juvfgyvat n ybj ersenva. Ur xrcg hc guvf ersenva ohfvarff sbe
arneyl gra praghevrf, juvyr Zrguhfrynu pbagvahrq gb fgnaq bhg nzvq gur
trareny jerpx bs zra naq angvbaf.

Rira nf gur lbhat, fgebat zbjre tbvat sbegu jvgu uvf zbjre gb zbj
fcnergu gur gnyy naq qvtavsvrq qeno ubearg'f arfgf naq cnffrgu ol ba gur
bgure fvqr, fb gvzr, jvgu uvf Jngreohel ubhe-tynff naq uvf birejbexrq
unl-xavsr bire uvf fubhyqre, naq uvf ybat Zbezba juvfxref naq uvf uvtu,
fyrrx qbzr bs gubhtug, jvgu vgf tenl ynzoerdhva bs unve nebhaq gur onfr
bs vg, zbjrq nyy nebhaq Zrguhfrynu naq gura cnffrq ba.

Zrguhfrynu qrpbengrq gur tenirf bs gubfr jub crevfurq va n qbmra
qvssrerag jnef. Ur qvq abg rayvfg uvzfrys, sbe bire avar uhaqerq lrnef
bs uvf yvsr ur jnf rkrzcg. Ur jbhyq tb gb gur rayvfgvat cynpr naq bssre
uvf freivprf, naq gur bssvpre jbhyq gryy uvz gb tb ubzr naq rapbhentr
uvf tenaq-puvyqera gb tb. Gura Zrguhfrynu jbhyq fvg nebhaq Abnu'f fgrcf,
naq fzbxr naq pevgvpvfr gur pbaqhpg bs gur jne, nyfb gur pbaqhpg bs gur
rarzl.

Vg vf fnvq bs Zrguhfrynu gung ur arire jnf gur fnzr zna nsgre uvf fba
Ynzrpu qvrq. Ur jnf terngyl nggnpurq gb Ynzrpu, naq jura ur jbxr hc bar
avtug gb svaq uvf fba checyr va gur snpr jvgu zrzoenarbhf pebhc ur pbhyq
uneqyl ernyvmr gung ur zvtug ybfr uvz. Gur vqrn bs ybfvat n obl jub unq
whfg ebhaqrq gur tybevbhf zbea bs uvf 777gu lrne unq arire bppheerq gb
uvz. Ohg qrngu ybirf n fuvavat znex, naq ur tnearerq yvggyr Ynzzvr naq
yrsg Zrguhfrynu gb zbna naq zbhea ba sbe n pbhcyr zber praghevrf jvgubhg
uvz.

Zrguhfrynu svanyyl tbg fb gung ur pbhyqa'g fyrrc nsgre 4 b'pybpx va gur
zbeavat, naq ur qvqa'g frr ubj nalbar ryfr pbhyq. Gur byqre ur tbg naq
gur yrff inyhnoyr uvf gvzr orpnzr gur rneyvre ur jbhyq evfr, fb gung ur
pbhyq trg na rneyl fgneg. Nf gur praghevrf svyrq fybjyl ol Zrguhfrynu
tbg jurer nyy ur unq gb qb jnf gb fuhssyr vagb uvf ybbfr-svggvat
pybgurf, naq erfg uvf thzf ba gur gbc bs n ynetr fyrrx-urnqrq pnar, naq
zhggre hc gur puvzarl, naq gura tebna naq rkgevpngr uvzfrys sebz uvf
pybgurf ntnva naq ergver. Ur nebfr rneyvre naq rneyvre va gur zbeavat,
naq zhggrerq zber naq zber nobhg gur lbhat sbyxf fyrrcvat njnl gur orfg
bs gur qnl, naq fnvq ur unq ab qbhog gung fyrrcvat naq fabevat hagvy
oernxsnfg gvzr urycrq gb pneel bss Ynz. Ohg bar qnl byq Sngure Gvzr pnzr
nybat jvgu n arj fplgur, naq ur qerj gur jurgfgbar npebff vg n srj gvzrf
naq ebyyrq gur fyrrirf bs uvf erq synaary haqretnezrag hc bire uvf jnegl
ryobjf, naq Ze. Zrguhfrynu cnffrq ba gb gung haqvfpbirerq pbhagel jvgu n
evcr rkcrevrapr naq n ybat, pyrna erpbeq.

Jr pna nyzbfg snapl ubj gur culfvpvnaf, jub unq qvfnterrq nobhg uvf pnfr
nyy gur jnl guebhtu, pnzr naq vafvfgrq ba n cbfg-zbegrz rknzvangvba gb
cebir juvpu jnf evtug, naq jung jnf ernyyl gur znggre jvgu uvz. Jr pna
vzntvar ubj crbcyr jrag ol funxvat gurve urnqf naq erterggvat gung
Zrguhfrynu fubhyq unir gnzcrerq jvgu gbonppb jura ur xarj vg nssrpgrq
uvf urneg.

Ohg ur vf tbar. Ur yvirq gb frr uvf bja cebzvffbel abgrf evfr, sybhevfu,
npdhver vagrerfg, cvar njnl ng ynfg, naq svanyyl bhgynj. Ur npdhverq n
ynetr snez va gur irel urneg bs gur pbhagl-frng, naq ershfrq gb zbir be
gb cybg vg naq pnyy vg Zrguhfrynu'f nqqvgvba. Ur pnzr bhg va fcevat
erthyneyl sbe avar uhaqerq lrnef nsgre ur tbg gbb byq gb jbex bhg uvf
cbyy-gnk ba gur ebnq naq chg va uvf gvzr gryyvat gur evfvat trarengvba
ubj gb znxr n tbbq ebnq. Zrnagvzr bgure byq crbcyr, jub jrer nyzbfg 100
lrnef bs ntr, zbirq njnl naq jrag jrfg, jurer gurl jbhyq nggenpg
nggragvba naq pbzznaq erfcrpg. Gurer jnf npghnyyl ab cyrnfher va trggvat
byq nebhaq jurer Zrguhfrynu jnf naq orvat beqrerq nobhg naq fpbyqrq naq
xrcg va gur onpxtebhaq ol uvz.

Fb jura ng ynfg ur qvrq crbcyr fvturq naq fnvq: "Jryy, vg jnf orggre sbe
uvz gb qvr orsber ur tbg puvyqvfu. Vg jnf orfg gung ur fubhyq qvr ng n
gvzr jura ur xarj vg nyy. Jr pna'g uryc guvaxvat jung na npdhvfvgvba
Zrguhfrynu jvyy or ba gur rireterra fuber jura ur trgf gurer, jvgu nyy
uvf evcr rkcrevrapr naq unovgf bs rneyl evfvat."

Naq gur arkg zbeavat nsgre gur shareny Zrguhfrynu'f snzvyl qvq abg trg
bhg bs orq gvyy 9 b'pybpx.

[Vyyhfgengvba]




ABGRF BA FBZR FCEVAT FGLYRF.

GUR YNQVRF SNIBEVGR OBAARG NAQ UBFVREL--GUR FZNYY QBT JBEA VA FUNQRF GB
ZNGPU GUR PBFGHZR--CERINVYVAT SNFUVBAF SBE TRAGYRZRA.

OVYY ALR.


Vg vf phfgbznel ng guvf frnfba bs gur lrne gb cbxr sha ng gur tbbq
pybgurf bs bhe sevraqf naq jryy-jvfuref, gur ynqvrf, ohg vg bpphef gb
zr gung guvf fcevat gurer vf n irel fznyy svryq sbe gur jvggl naq
fnepnfgvp pevgvp bs srznyr nggver. Gurer unf abg orra n gvzr fvapr V
svefg ortna gb znxr n fghql bs guvf oenapu bs fpvrapr jura gur ynqvrf
frrz gb unir znavsrfgrq orggre gnfgr be fbhaqre whqtzrag va gur znggre
bs qerff.

Rira obaargf frrz gb or yrff tebgrfdhr guvf frnfba guna urergbsber,
nygubhtu gur uvtu, fgnegyrq obaarg, gur obaarg gung znl or punenpgrevmrq
nf gur rkpryfvbe obaarg, vf fgvyy ergnvarq ol fbzr, gubhtu ubj vg vf
ergnvarq unf nyjnlf orra n zlfgrel gb zr. Creuncf vg ubyqf vgf cynpr va
fbpvrgl ol zrnaf bs n ybat, oynpx cva, juvpu nccneragyl cnffrf guebhtu
gur oenva bs gur jrnere.

Oynpx ubfvrel pbagvahrf gb or irel cbchyne, V nz vasbezrq. Fbzrgvzrf vg
vf jbea pybpxrq, naq gura ntnva vg vf jbea pebpxrq. Gur pebpxyrff oynpx
fgbpxvat vf tnvavat va snibe va bhe orfg pvepyrf, V nz cyrnfrq gb abgr.
Abguvat ybbxf zber zbegvsvrq guna n sbbg gung unf orra vafvqr bs n
pebpxnoyr fgbpxvat nyy guebhtu n ybat, ubg, fhzzre qnl.

V nz irel tynq gb abgvpr gung gur rssbeg znqr n srj lrnef ntb ol n
Serapu ersbezre gb nobyvfu gur fgbpxvat ba gur tebhaq bs haurnygushyarff
unf zrg jvgu jryy-zrevgrq snvyher. Gur phfgbz bs jrnevat ubfvrel vf bar
gung qbrf terng perqvg gb gur fcvevg bs Nzrevpna cebterff, juvpu pnaabg
or gujnegrq ol gur chal unaq bs sbervta vagresrerapr be qrfcbgvp
vagreiragvba.

Fgerrg pbfghzrf bs unaqfbzryl svggvat naq habogehfvir funqrf bs fbsg naq
pbzsbegnoyr tbbqf jvyy or trarenyyl va snibe, naq gur ornhgvshy naq
flzzrgevpny Nzrevpna nez jvgu n arngyl svggvat fyrrir ba gur bhgfvqr bs
vg jvyy tynqqra gur urnegf bs gur pnfhny fcrpgngbe bapr zber.

Gur ynql jvgu gur nphgr ryobj naq gur vgnyvpvmrq pynivpyr jvyy znxr n
fgebat rssbeg guvf frnfba gb nobyvfu gur pybfr-svggvat naq rkgerzryl
nggenpgvir fyrrir, ohg vg jvyy or shgvyr.

Gur fznyy qbt jvyy or jbea guvf frnfba va funqrf gb zngpu gur pbfghzr.
Sbe qnex naq oebja pbzovangvbaf va fgerrg qerffrf gur oynpx-naq-gna qbt
jvyy or irel zhpu va snibe, juvyr gur oynpx-naq-qeno cht jvyy or
nssrpgrq ol gubfr jrnevat gurfr funqrf va qerff. Fznyy chtf gung ner
jneenagrq abg gb ont ng gur xarrf ner pbzznaqvat n tbbq cevpr. Fcvgm
qbtf gb zngpu ylak be sbk gevzzrq tnezragf be fcevat jencf ner abj orvat
fcevaxyrq jvgu pnzcube naq ynvq nfvqr sbe gur fhzzre. Pbnpu qbtf bs gur
fcbggrq inevrgl jvyy or jbea jvgu cbyxn-qbg pbfghzrf. Gnyy, jvyybjl
ubhaqf jvgu jver gnvyf jvyy or zhpu nssrpgrq ol fyraqre lbhat ynqvrf naq
ulqebcubovn. Nagvdhr qbtf jvgu jrnx rlrf, nfguzn, naq na nve bs ynathbe
jvyy or hfrq n terng qrny guvf frnfba gb qrpbengr ynjaf naq envyebnq
pebffvatf. Lbhat qbtf gung ner whfg ohqqvat vagb qbtubbq jvyy or abgvprq
guebhtu gur fcevat zbaguf gelvat gurve arj grrgu ba gur yvtug fcevat
cnagnybbaf bs znyr crqrfgevnaf.

Fglyrf va tragyrzra'f pybguvat unir abg zngrevnyyl punatrq. Yniraqre
cnagnybbaf, jvgu na nve bs frggyrq zrynapubyl naq oramvar, ner abj
znxvat gurve nccrnenapr, naq lbhat zra gelvat gb renqvpngr gur qebbc va
gur xarrf bs ynfg fhzzre'f tnezrag znl or frra va gurve yhkhevbhf
ncnegzragf zbfg nal pnyz fcevat riravat.

Na byq anvy-oehfu, jvgu n fbyhgvba bs nzzbavn naq cehffvp npvq, jvyy
erzbir genprf bs phfgneq cvr sebz yvtug funqrf va cnagnybbaf. Guvf
cercnengvba jvyy nyfb erzbir gur cnagnybbaf.

Gur hzoeryyn jvyy or jbea bire gur fubhyqre naq va gur rlr bs gur
cnffvat crqrfgevna, irel zhpu nf hfhny ba cyrnfnag qnlf, naq yrsg oruvaq
gur qbbe va n qnex pybfrg ba enval qnlf.

Tragyrzra jvyy jrne bar cbpxrg-unaqxrepuvrs va gur fvqr cbpxrg, jvgu gur
pbeare tragyl rzretvat, naq nabgure va gur uvc cbpxrg, nf gurl qvq ynfg
frnfba, gur sbezre sbe qrpbengvir checbfrf naq gur ynggre sbe ohfvarff.
Guvf vf n jvfr cebivfvba naq arire snvyf gb ryvpvg snibenoyr pbzzrag.

Gur phfgbz bs jrnevat n srj xrearyf bs ebnfgrq pbssrr be n qbmra pybirf
va gur yvggyr pvtnerggr cbpxrg bs gur phgnjnl pbng jvyy fgvyy pbagvahr,
naq gur fhccyl jvyy or ercyravfurq orgjrra gur npgf, nf urergbsber.

Fgenj ungf jvyy or punfrq qbja gur fgerrgf guvf fcevat ol gur fnzr
tragyrzra jub punfrq gurz ynfg fcevat, naq va fbzr vafgnaprf gur fnzr
ungf jvyy or hfrq. Funqr gerrf jvyy or jbea n yvggyr ybjre guvf fhzzre,
naq jvyy gurersber fhpprrq va jvcvat bss n ynetre pebc bs cyht ungf, vg
vf ubcrq. Yvara qhfgref, jvgu gur cbpxrgf pnershyyl fbyqrerq gbtrgure,
unir abg lrg znqr gurve nccrnenapr.

[Vyyhfgengvba]




UHAGVAT NA VPUGULBFNHEHF.

GUR IVPGVZF BS N CENPGVPNY WBXR GENZC SVIR QNLF NYBAT OVGGRE PERRX VA
FRNEPU BS NA NAVZNY GUNG UNQ ORRA QRNQ 5,000 LRNEF.

OVYY ALR.


Frireny lrnef ntb V unq gur cyrnfher bs wbvavat n cnegl nobhg gb fgneg
bhg nybat gur onaxf bs Ovggre perrx ba n uhagvat rkcrqvgvba. Gur yrnqre
bs gur cnegl jnf n lbhat zna jub unq erpragyl rfpncrq sebz pbyyrtr jvgu
n ynetr nzbhag bs xabjyrqtr juvpu ur qrfverq gb rkcrevzrag jvgu ba gur
crbcyr bs gur sne jrfg. Ur unq urneq gung gurer jnf na vpugulbfnhehf hc
fbzrjurer nybat gur jrfg fvqr bs Ovggre perrx, naq ur jnagrq hf gb tb
nybat naq uryc uvz gb svaq vg.

V unq orra va gur jrfg fbzr rvtug be avar lrnef gura naq V unq arire
frra na vpugulbfnhehf zlfrys, ohg V gubhtug gur lbhat zna zhfg xabj uvf
ohfvarff, fb V tbg bhg zl Jvapurfgre naq jrag nybat jvgu gur tebhc.

Jr genzcrq bire gur cnyr, nful, tynevat, fgnevat fgergpu bs qrfbyngvba,
guebhtu oheavat, dhvirevat qnlf bs zbabgbal naq fntr oehfu naq nyxnyv
jngre naq npuvat rlrf naq cnepurq naq oyrrqvat yvcf naq abfgevyf phg
guebhtu naq rngra ol gur funec nyxnyvar nve, zragnyyl qrcerffrq naq
culfvpnyyl jbea bhg, ohg purrerq ba naq oenprq hc ol gur yvtug naq
wblbhf znaare bs gur rire-ubcrshy Wnzrf Gevybovgr Rgba bs Pbapbeq.

Wnzrf Gevybovgr Rgba bs Pbapbeq arire zbnarq, arire tvttrq onpx be furq
n ubg, erzbefrshy grne va guvf cbjqrel, uhatel jnfgr bs tenl, cnepurq
ehva. Ab erterg pnzr sbegu sebz uvf yvcf va gur zvqfg bs guvf zvtugl
przrgrel, guvf tunfgyl cbggre'f svryq sbe nyy gung angher unq rire
ernerq gung jnf gbb cbbe gb orne vgf bja shareny rkcrafrf.

Abj naq gura n yrna, fbvyrq tenl pblbgr, jvgubhg fhssvpvrag zbeny
pbhentr gb ybbx n qrnq zhyr va gur uvaq sbbg, fyvccrq npebff gur ubevmba
yvxr n qvegl cunagbz naq snqrq vagb gur ubg naq gerzhybhf ngzbfcurer. Jr
fpbearq fhpu tnzr nf gung naq gehqtrq ba, purrerq ol gur ubcr gung
frrzrq gb fcevat rgreany va gur oernfg bs Wnzrf Gevybovgr Rgba bs
Pbapbeq.

Sbhe qnlf jr jnyybjrq guebhtu gur hapunatvat qrfbyngvba. Sbhe avtugf jr
jrag guebhtu gur zbgvbaf bs fyhzorevat ba gur nevq obfbz bs gur jnfgrq
rnegu. Ba gur svsgu qnl Wnzrf Gevybovgr Rgba fnvq jr jrer abj trggvat
arne gur cbvag jurer jr jbhyq svaq jung jr fbhtug. Ba jr cerffrq guebhtu
gur xrra, ebhtu oynqrf bs gur fryqbz ohapu-tenff, bire gur fuvsgvat,
lryybj fnaq naq gur terravfu tenl bs gur onq-ynaq fbvy juvpu arire qbrf
nalguvat ohg fvg nebhaq guebhtu gur npphzhyngvat praghevrf naq ubyq gur
jbeyq gbtrgure, n xvaq bs cbjqrel cbvfba gung qryvtugf gb perrc vagb gur
abfgevyf bs gur cvytevz naq fgrny njnl uvf oenvaf, be jura zbvfgrarq ol
n yvggyr fabj gb npphzhyngr nebhaq gur srrg bs gur cvytevz be ba gur
srrg bs gur cvytevz'f zhyr gvyy ur unf gur zbfg bs na hafheirlrq "sbegl"
ba rnpu sbbg, naq gur pnfhny bofreire vf purrerq ol gur abiry fvtug bs
bar ubzrfgrnq fgevivat gb whzc nabgure.

Gbjneq riravat Wnzrf Gevybovgr Rgba tnir n jvyq fuevrx bs wbl naq ena gb
hf sebz gur orq bs na byq perrx, jurer ur unq sbhaq na vpugulbfnhehf.
Gur navzny jnf qrnq! Abg bayl gung, ohg vg unq orra qrnq n ybat, ybat
gvzr!

Wnzrf Zvygba Fureebq fnvq gung "vs n pbyyrtr rqhpngvba jnf bs ab zber
hfr gb n zna guna gung ur, sbe bar, nyybjrq gung uvf obl jbhyq unir gb
tebcr guebhtu yvsr jvgu na npnqrzvpny rqhpngvba, naq irel yvggyr bs
_vg_."

V hapbpxrq zl tha naq jrag onpx gb pnzc n fnqqre naq znqqre zna, naq,
gubhtu lrnef unir pbzr naq tbar, V nz fgvyy veevgnoyr jura V guvax bs
gur svir qnlf jr genzcrq nybat Ovggre perrx frnepuvat sbe na navzny
gung jnf ab ybatre nyvir, naq bhe thvqr xarj vg orsber ur fgnegrq.

V iragherq gb fnl gb W. Gevybovgr Rgba gung avtug nf jr nyy fng gbtrgure
va gur tybnzvat qvfphffvat jurgure ur fubhyq or gnxra ubzr jvgu hf va
gur pncnpvgl bs n thvqr be nf n erznvaf, gung vg frrzrq gb zr n zna
bhtug gb unir orggre frafr guna gb jrne uvf lbhat yvsr njnl gelvat gb
unir sha jvgu uvf fhcrevbef va gung jnl.

"Jul, oynzr vg nyy," fnlf Wnzrf, "jung qvq lbh rkcrpg? Lbh bhtug gb xabj
lbhefrys gung gung navzny vf rkgvapg!"

"Rkgvapx!" fnlf Wnzrf Zvygba Fureebq, va fuevyy, natel gbarf. "V fubhyq
fnl ur jnf rkgvapx. Gung'f jung jr'er xvpxva' nobhg. Jung tnyyqrq zr jnf
gung lbh fubhyq bs jnvgrq gvyy gur byq phff jnf rkgvapx orsber lbh pbzr
gb hf yvxr n zna naq gbyq hf nobhg vg. Lbh chyy hf guebhtu gur fnaq sbe
n jrrx naq oyvfgre bhe urryf naq pbaqrzo arne xvyy hf, naq nyy gur gvzr
lbh xabj gung gur oynzr oehgr vf ynlva' gurer va gur ubg fha tvggva'
zber naq zber rkgvapx rirel zvahgr. Sha vf sha, naq V yvxr n yvggyr
abafrafr abj naq gura whfg nf jryy nf lbh qb, ohg V'yy or rgreanyyl
onavfurq gb Ovggre perrx vs V guvax vg'f fdhner be evtug be juvgr gb
cynl vg ba lbhe sevraqf guvf xvaq bs n jnl.

"Lbh pynvz gung gur navzny unf orra qrnq tbva' ba svir gubhfnaq lrnef,
be fbzr fhpu guvat nf gung, naq gel gb trg bhg bs vg gung jnl, ohg ybat
nf lbh xarj vg naq jr qvqa'g vg fubjf gung lbh'er n ybj phff abg gb
fcrnx bs vg.

"Jung qvssrerapr qbrf vg znxr gb hf, V fnl, jurgure guvf oehgr jnf be
jnf abg qrnq naq fjryyrq hc yvxr n cvmra'q fgrre ybat orsber Aber tbg
uvf mbbybtvpxyr fubj gbtrgure? Jr qvqa'g xabj vg. Jr unira'g frra gur
Fnyg Ynxr cncref sbe jrrxf. Lbh hfr lbhe rqwrpngvba gb sbby crbcyr jvgu.
Zl bcvavba vf gung gur qnl vf abg sne qvfgnag jura lbh jvyy jnxr hc naq
svaq lbhefrys va gur obggbz bs na hagvzryl tenir.

"Lbh oevat hf n uhaqerq naq svsgl zvyrf gb ybbx ng na byq obar cvyr nyy
genzcrq vagb gur tebhaq naq gura fnl gung gur navzny vf rkgvapx. Gung'f
n terng jnl gb gnyx gb na byq zna yvxr zr, n zna byq rabhtu gb or lbhe
tenaqsngure. Ceboyl lbh pnpxyngr gung vg vf n ener gerng sbe na
byq-gvzre yvxr zr gb jnyyre guebhtu sebz Terra Evire gb gur Lnyyrefgbar
naq gura urne n lbhat xnatnebb jvgu n zbgu-rngra rlroebj haqre uvf abfr
ohefg sbegu vagb n ebyyvpxvat ynhtu naq fnl gung gur navzny jr'ir orra
genvyva' sbe svir qnlf vf rkgvapx.

"V whfg jnag gb fnl gb lbh, Wnzrf Gevybovgr Rgba, naq V fnl vg sbe lbhe
tbbq naq V fnl vg jvgu ab cerwhqvpr ntnvafg lbh, sbe V jnag gb frr lbh
fhpprrq, gung vs guvf rire unccraf ntva naq lbh ner gur cnegl gb oynzr
lbh jvyy jnxr hc jvgu n jvyq fgneg ba gur sbyyreva' qnl naq svaq
lbhefrys n tbbq qrny rkgvapxre guna guvf urer byq ohfgrq yvmneq vf."

[Vyyhfgengvba]




GEHR ZREVG ERJNEQRQ.

FGLYR BS FPUBBY YVGRENGHER XABJA GUVEGL LRNEF NTB.

BAR BS OVYY ALR'F FRYRPGVBAF, JEVGGRA OL UVZFRYS--NEENATRQ JVGU FCRPVNY
ERSRERAPR GB GUR ZNGGRE BS PUBVPR, QRYVPNGR NAQ QVSSVPHYG JBEQF.


Bar qnl nf Trbetr Bfjnyq jnf tbvat gb uvf gnfxf, naq juvyr cnffvat
guebhtu gur jbbq, ur fcvrq n gnyy zna nccebnpuvat va na bccbfvgr
qverpgvba nybat gur uvtujnl.

"Nu," gubhtug Trbetr, va n ybj, zryybj gbar bs ibvpr, "jubz unir jr
urer?"

"Tbbq zbeavat, zl svar sryybj," rkpynvzrq gur fgenatre, cyrnfnagyl. "Qb
lbh erfvqr va guvf ybpnyvgl?"

"Vaqrrq V qb," ergbegrq Trbetr, purrevyl qebccvat uvf pnc. "Va lbaqre
pbggntr, arne gur tyra, zl jvqbjrq zbgure naq ure guvegrra puvyqera
qjryy jvgu zr."

"Naq ubj qvq lbhe cncn qvr?" nfxrq gur zna, nf ur gubhtugshyyl fgbbq ba
gur bgure sbbg njuvyr.

"Nynf, fve," fnvq Trbetr, nf n ynetr ubg grne fgbyr qbja uvf cnyr purrx
naq sryy jvgu n ybhq ercbeg ba gur jnegl fhesnpr bs uvf oner sbbg, "ur
jnf ybfg ng frn va n ovggre tnyr. Gur tbbq fuvc sbhaqrerq gjb lrnef ntb
ynfg Puevfgznfgvqr, naq sngure jnf sbhaqrerq ng gur fnzr gvzr. Ab bar
xarj bs gur ybff bs gur fuvc naq gung gur perj jnf qebjarq hagvy gur
arkg fcevat, naq vg jnf gura gbb yngr."

"Naq jung vf lbhe ntr, zl svar sryybj?" dhbgu gur fgenatre.

"Vs V yvir hagvy arkg Bpgbore," fnvq gur obl, va n qrpynzngbel gbar bs
ibvpr fhvgnoyr sbe n Frpbaq Ernqre, "V jvyy or 7 lrnef bs ntr."


N YNETR SNZVYL BS PUVYQERA.

"Naq jub cebivqrf sbe lbhe zbgure naq ure ynetr snzvyl bs puvyqera?"
dhrevrq gur zna.

"Vaqrrq, V qb, fve," ercyvrq Trbetr, va n fuevyy gbar. "V gbvy, bu, fb
uneq, fve, sbe jr ner irel, irel cbbe, naq fvapr zl ryqre fvfgre, Naa,
jnf zneevrq naq oebhtug ure uhfonaq ubzr gb yvir jvgu hf V unir gb gbvy
zber nffvqhbhfyl guna urergbsber."

"Naq ol jung zrnaf qb lbh bognva n yviryvubbq?" rkpynvzrq gur zna, va
fybjyl zrnfherq naq tenzzngvpny jbeqf.

"Ol qvttvat jryyf, xvaq fve," ercyvrq Trbetr, cvpxvat hc n gverq nag nf
ur fcbxr naq fgebxvat vg ba gur onpx. "V unir n tbbq rqhpngvba, naq fb V
nz ranoyrq gb qvt jryyf nf jryy nf n zna. V qb guvf qnlgvzrf naq gnxr va
jnfuvat ng avtug. Va guvf jnl V nz ranoyrq gb znvagnva bhe snzvyl va n
cerpnevbhf znaare; ohg, bu, fve, fubhyq zl bgure fvfgref zneel, V srne
gung fbzr bs zl oebguref-va-ynj jbhyq unir gb fhssre."

"Lbh ner vaqrrq n oenir ynq," rkpynvzrq gur fgenatre, nf ur ercerffrq n
fzvyr. "Naq qb lbh abg ng gvzrf orpbzr irel jrnel naq jvfu sbe bgure
jnlf bs cnffvat lbhe gvzr?"

"Vaqrrq V qb, fve," fnvq gur ynq. "V jbhyq snva eha naq ebzc naq or tnl
yvxr bgure oblf, ohg V zhfg ratntr va pbafgnag znahny rkrepvfr, be jr
jvyy unir ab oernq gb rng naq V unir abg frra n cvr fvapr cncn crevfurq
va gur zbvfg naq zbnavat frn."


FNIRQ SEBZ N UHEEVRQ TENIR.

"Naq jung vs V jrer gb gryy lbh gung lbhe cncn qvq abg crevfu ng frn,
ohg jnf fnirq sebz n uheevrq tenir?" nfxrq gur fgenatre va cyrnfvat
gbarf.

"Nu, fve," rkpynvzrq Trbetr, va n tragrry znaare, ntnva qbssvat uvf pnc.
"V'z gbb cbyvgr gb gryy lbh jung V jbhyq fnl, naq orfvqr, fve, lbh ner
zhpu ynetre guna V nz."

"Ohg, zl oenir ynq," fnvq gur zna va ybj zhfvpny gbarf, "qb lbh abg
xabj zr, Trbetvr. Bu, Trbetr!"

"V zhfg fnl," ercyvrq Trbetr, "gung lbh unir gur nqinagntr bs zr. Juvyfg
V znl unir zrg lbh orsber, V pna abg ng guvf zbzrag cynpr lbh, fve."

"Zl fba! bu, zl fba!" zhezherq gur zna, ng gur fnzr gvzr gnxvat n ynetr
fgenjoreel znex bhg bs gur inyvfr naq fubjvat vg gb gur ynq. "Qb lbh abg
erpbtavmr lbhe cnerag ba lbhe sngure'f fvqr? Jura bhe tbbq fuvc jrag gb
gur obggbz, nyy crevfurq fnir zr. V fjnz frireny zvyrf guebhtu gur
ovyybjf, naq ng ynfg, hggreyl rkunhfgrq, tnir hc nyy ubcr bs yvsr.
Fhqqrayl n oevtug vqrn pnzr gb zr naq V jnyxrq bhg bs gur frn naq erfgrq
zlfrys.

"Naq abj, zl oenir obl," rkpynvzrq gur zna jvgu terng tyrr, "frr jung V
unir oebhtug sbe lbh." Vg jnf ohg gur jbex bs n zbzrag gb hapynfc sebz n
funjy fgenc, juvpu ur uryq va uvf unaq, naq cerfrag gb Trbetr'f
nfgbavfurq tnmr, n ynetr 40 prag jngrezryba, juvpu ur unq oebhtug jvgu
uvz sebz gur Bevrag.

"Nu," fnvq Trbetr, "guvf vf vaqrrq n tynq fhecevfr. Nyorvg, ubj pna V
rire ercnl lbh?"--_Ovyy Alr va Obfgba Tybor._

[Vyyhfgengvba]




OVYY ALR PBAQBYRF JVGU PYRIRYNAQ.

FHECEVFR RKCERFFRQ GUNG GUR CERFVQRAG FUBHYQ GNXR N ZBGURE-VA-YNJ VAGB
UVF PNOVARG NAQ NQQ UBHFRXRRCVAT GB UVF BGURE NTBAL.


    UHQFBA, JVF., Whar 3, 1886.
    _Gur Uba. Tebire Pyrirynaq, Jnfuvatgba, Q. P.:_

ZL QRNE FVE: Lbh unir abj nffhzrq n arj qhgl naq gnxra hcba lbhefrys na
nqqvgvbany erfcbafvovyvgl. Abg pbagrag jvgu gur terng jrvtug bs angvbany
nssnvef, fhssvpvrag gb pehfu nal bgure cnpulqrez, lbh unir purreshyyl
naq nyzbfg tyrrshyyl orpbzr n zneevrq zna. Juvyr V pnaabg nterr jvgu lbh
cbyvgvpnyyl, Tebire, V nz sbeprq gb nqzver lbhe pbhentr.

Guvf zbeavat n arj yvsr bcraf bhg gb lbh--gur yvsr bs n zneevrq zna. Vg
vf vaqrrq n uhzvyvngvat fvghngvba. Gb or n cerfvqrag bs gur Havgrq
Fgngrf, gur ebhfgnobhg bs n serr crbcyr, vf n gelvat fvghngvba; ohg gb
or n arjyl zneevrq cerfvqrag, zneevrq va gur shyy tyner bs bssvpvny
yvsr, jvgu gur rlr bs n qvivqrq pbafgvghrapl hcba lbh, vf gb cynpr
lbhefrys jurer areir vf nofbyhgryl rffragvny.

V, gbb, nz zneevrq, ohg abg haqre fhpu gelvat pvephzfgnaprf. Bguref unir
orra zneevrq naq fgvyy yvirq, ohg vg unf erznvarq sbe lbh, Ze.
Cerfvqrag, lbhat nf lbh ner, gb cbfr nf n arjyl jrqqrq cerfvqrag naq gb
gnxr lbhe arj zbgure-va-ynj vagb gur pnovarg jvgu lbh. Sbe guvf ernfba,
V fnl serryl gung gb jnyx n fynpx ebcr npebff gur zbvfg oebj bs Avntnen
naq pneel n areibhf zna va n jurryoneebj fvaxf vagb n zrer pbzzbacynpr.
Qnavry cynlvat "gnt" jvgu n qrashy bs unys-fgneirq yvbaf orpbzrf n
uvfgbevp pvcure, naq gur Uroerj puvyqera, fvggvat ba n ebfl orq bs
erq-ubg pyvaxref va gur svrel sheanpr, ner nyzbfg sbetbggra.

Jvgu n ynetr jnq bs pvivy freivpr jrqtrq va nzbat lbhe onpx grrgu, n
ynetre sentzrag, creuncf, guna lbh jrer cercnerq gb znfgvpngr jura lbh
ovg vg bss; jvgu na ntbavmrq fbhgurea qrzbpenpl naq n pynzbebhf abegurea
pbafgvghrapl; jvgu qvfnccbvagzrag cbbeyl pbaprnyrq nzbat lbhe sevraqf
naq uvynevgl bcrayl rkcerffrq ol lbhe rarzvrf; jvgu gur faney bs gur
inadhvfurq Ze. Qnivf, jub jnf ng bar gvzr n fbeg bs cerfvqrag uvzfrys,
nf ur ebyyf hc shgher znwbevgvrf sbe lbhe sbrf; jvgu n ybg bs
funec-jvggrq wbheanyvfgf jnyxvat nyy bire lbh rirel gjragl-sbhe ubhef
naq pyvzovat hc lbhe fgnyjneg senzr jvgu gurve gryrtencu ercnve obbgf
ba, V nz fhecevfrq, Tebire, ubarfgyl, nf orgjrra zna naq zna, gung lbh
fubhyq unir gevrq gb nqq ubhfrxrrcvat gb nyy guvf bgure ntbal. Unq lbh
orra lbhat naq graqre haqre gur jvatf V zvtug unir haqrefgbbq vg, ohg
lbh zhfg nqzvg, va gur dhvrg naq fnapgvgl bs lbhe bja ubzr, Tebire, gung
lbh ner ab tbfyvat. Lbh unir neevirq ng zna'f rfgngr. Lbh unir pyvzorq
gur oneorq-jver srapr juvpu frcnengrf gur syhss naq oybbz naq oybffbz
naq ohzoyr-orrf bs vzcrghbhf lbhgu sebz gur lryybj svryqf naq funqbjl
bepuneqf bs zvqqyr yvsr. Lbh abj fgnaq va gur shyy tyner bs yvsr'f
zrevqvna. Lbh ner ragrevat hcba n arj rkcrevrapr. Cbffvoyl lbh guvax
gung orpnhfr lbh ner cerfvqrag gur naablnaprf crphyvne gb gur yvsr bs n
arj, terra tebbz jvyy abg ernpu lbh. Qb abg sbby lbhefrys va guvf
znaare. Bguref unir znqr gur fnzr zvfgnxr. Cbfvgvba, jrnygu naq snzr
pnaabg fuhg bhg gur njxjneq naq gelvat pvephzfgnaprf juvpu nggraq gur
zneevrq zna rira nf gur fcnexf ner cebar gb syl hcjneq.

Vg jvyy frrz bqq gb lbh ng svefg, Ze. Cerfvqrag, nsgre gur nssnvef bs
gur angvba unir orra chg nfvqr sbe gur qnl naq gur tbireazrag sver cebbs
fnsr ybpxrq hc sbe gur avtug, gb tb hc gb lbhe obhqbve naq pbairefr jvgu
n oevqr, jvgu bar pbeare bs ure zbhgu shyy bs cvaf. N zna znl jevgr n
cerggl snve zrffntr gb pbaterff, bar gung jvyy or npprcgrq naq cevagrq
nyy bire gur pbhagel, naq lrg ur znl abg or svggrq gb ubyq n
pbairefngvba jvgu bar pbeare bs n jbzna'f zbhgu juvyr gur bgure vf
svyyrq jvgu cvaf. Gb fbzr zra vg vf tvira gb or terng nf fgngrfzra,
juvyr gb bguref vg vf tvira gb or syhrag pbairefngvbanyvfgf haqre gurfr
pvephzfgnaprf.

Ze. Cerfvqrag, V znl or gnxvat n terng yvoregl va jevgvat gb lbh naq
gbhpuvat hcba lbhe cevingr nssnvef, ohg V abgvprq gung rirelobql ryfr
jnf qbvat vg naq fb V unir areirq zlfrys hc gb jevgr lbh, univat bapr
orra n zneevrq zna zlfrys, gubhtu abg, nf V fnvq, haqre gur fnzr
pvephzfgnaprf. Jura V jnf zneevrq V jnf bayl n cynva whfgvpr bs gur
crnpr, cybqqvat dhvrgyl nybat naq fgevivat gb qb zl qhgl. Lbh jnf gura
furevss bs lbhe pbhagl. Yvggyr qvq jr guvax va gubfr qnlf gung abj lbh
jbhyq or n serfuyl zneevrq cerfvqrag naq V gur nhgube bs frireny cvrprf
juvpu unir orra cevagrq va gur cncref. Yvggyr qvq jr guvax gura, jura V
jnf n whfgvpr bs gur crnpr va Jlbzvat naq lbh n furevss va Arj Lbex,
gung gb-qnl lbhe gvzbgul ynja jbhyq or xvpxrq nyy gb cvrprf ol lbhe
nqzvevat pbafgvghragf, juvyr V jbhyq or xabja naq ybirq jurerire gur
Ratyvfu ynathntr vf gnzcrerq jvgu.

Fb jr unir evfra gbtrgure, lbh gb n cbvag sebz juvpu lbh znl or rnfvyl
bofreirq naq synlrq nyvir ol gur arjfcncref, juvyr V nz gur fnzr
cyrnfnag, hanffhzvat, tragyrznayl sevraq bs gur cbbe gung V jnf jura
bayl n whfgvpr bs gur crnpr naq pbzcnengviryl haxabja.

V pnaabg pybfr guvf yrggre jvgubhg rkcerffvat n jvfu gung lbhe zneevrq
yvsr znl or n wblbhf bar, nf gur cncre ng Ynenzvr unf fnvq, "naq gung ab
pybhq znl rire pbzr gb zne gur ubevmba bs lbhe jrqqrq oyvff." (Guvf
fragrapr vf abg zl bja. V pbcl vg ireongvz sebz n jrqqvat abgvpr bs zl
bja jevggra ol n jrfgrea wbheanyvfg jub vf abj ng gur Byq Jbzna'f Ubzr.)

Ze. Cerfvqrag, V ubcr lbh jvyy abg srry gung V unir orra gbb sbejneq va
jevgvat gb lbh crefbanyyl bire zl bja anzr. V zrna gb qb jung vf orfg
sbe lbh. Lbh pna gehyl fnl gung nyy V unir rire qbar va guvf jnl unf
orra sbe lbhe tbbq. V fcrnx va n cynva jnl fbzrgvzrf, ohg V qba'g orng
nobhg gur ohfu. V frr gung lbh qb abg jnag gb unir nal ratebffrq ovyyf
frag gb lbh sbe n pbhcyr bs jrrxf.

Gung'f gur jnl V jnf. V gbyq nyy zl perqvgbef gb jvguubyq gurve
ratebffrq ovyyf qhevat zl ubarlzbba, nf V jnf bgurejvfr ratebffrq.
Guvf erznex znqr zr n terng znal sevraqf naq nqqrq gb zl ynetr pvepyr bs
perqvgbef. Vg jnf nsgrejneq cevagrq va n sbervta cncre naq rkcynvarq va
n fhccyrzrag bs rvtug cntrf.

Jr ner nyy cerggl jryy urer ng ubzr. V znl tb gb Jnfuvatgba guvf snyy vs
V pna fryy n oybpx bs fgbpx va gur Cnhcre'f Qernz, n evpu tbyq pynvz bs
zvar ba Ryx zbhagnva. Vg vf n irel evpu pynvz, ohg arrqf pncvgny gb
qrirybc vg. (Guvf erznex vf abg bevtvany jvgu zr. V dhbgr sebz na
rkpunatr.)

Vs V qb pbzr bire gb Jnfuvatgba qb abg yrg gung znxr nal qvssrerapr va
lbhe cynaf. Vs V gubhtug lbhe jvsr jbhyq fraq bhg gb gur arvtuobef naq
obeebj qvfurf naq fhpu guvatf ba zl nppbhag V jbhyq abg tb n fgrc.

Whfg fgvpx lbhe urnq bhg bs gur jvaqbj naq juvfgyr nf fbba nf gur
pnovarg vf tbar naq V jvyy pbzr hc gurer naq fcraq gur riravat.

Erzrzore gung V unir abg tebja pbyq gbjneq lbh whfg orpnhfr lbh unir
zneevrq. Lbh jvyy svaq zr gur xvaq bs n sevraq jub jvyy abg qrfreg lbh
whfg jura lbh ner va gebhoyr. Lbhef, nf urergbsber,

    _Ovyy Alr._

C. F.--V fraq lbh gb-qnl n pneq-erprvire. Vg ybbxf yvxr fvyire. Qb abg
yrg lbhe jvsr orne ba gbb uneq jura fur cbyvfurf vg. V jnf nsenvq lbh
zvtug gel gb fgneg vagb xrrcvat ubhfr jvgubhg n pneq-erprvire, fb V
obhtug guvf lrfgreqnl. Jura V tbg zneevrq V sbetbg gb ohl n
pneq-erprvire, naq V thrff jr jbhyq unir sebmra gb qrngu orsber jr pbhyq
unir chepunfrq bar, ohg sevraqf jrer zber gubhtugshy, naq gurer jrer
avar bs gurz nzbat gur tvsgf. Vs lbh qrpvqr gung vg jbhyq abg or cebcre
sbe lbh gb erprvir cerfragf, lbh znl erghea gur pneq erprvire gb zr, be
chg vg va gur pryyne-jnl gvyy V pbzr bire gurer guvf snyy.

    _O. A._

[Vyyhfgengvba]




AB QBHOG NF GB UVF PBAQVGVBA.


Uneel--V urne gung lbh unir ybfg lbhe sngure. Nyybj zr gb rkcerff zl
flzcngul.

Wnpx (jvgu n fvtu)--Gunax lbh. Lrf, ur unf tbar; ohg gur rirag jnf
rkcrpgrq sbe n ybat gvzr, naq gur oybj jnf pbafrdhragyl yrff frirer guna
vs vg unq abg orra ybbxrq sbe.

U.--Uvf cebcregl jnf ynetr?

W.--Lrf; fbzrguvat yvxr n dhnegre bs n zvyyvba.

U.--V urneq gung uvf vagryyrpg, bjvat gb uvf vyyarff, jnf fbzrjung
srroyr qhevat uvf ynggre lrnef. Vf gurer nal cebonovyvgl bs gur jvyy
orvat pbagrfgrq?

W.--Ab; sngure jnf dhvgr fnar jura ur znqr uvf jvyy. Ur yrsg rirelguvat
gb zr.




PLPYBARF.


Jr jrer evqvat nybat ba gur obhaqvat genva lrfgreqnl, naq fbzr bar fcbxr
bs gur serr naq qrzbpengvp jnl gung crbcyr va guvf pbhagel tbg
npdhnvagrq jvgu rnpu bgure juvyr geniryvat. Gura jr tbg gb gnyxvat nobhg
envyjnl fbpvnovyvgl naq envyjnl rgvdhrggr, jura n lbhat zna sebz Rnfg
Wnfcre, jub unq jvyqyl whzcrq naq tenoorq uvf inyvfr rirel gvzr gur
genva urfvgngrq, fnvq gung vg jnf dhrre jung envyjnl geniry jbhyq qb va
gur jnl bs guebjvat crbcyr gbtrgure. Ur fnvq gung va Aroenfxn bapr ur
naq n ynetr, pbechyrag tragyrzna, obgu gbgny fgenatref, jrer guebja
gbtrgure juvyr gelvat gb whzc n jnfubhg, naq na vagvznpl fcenat hc
orgjrra gurz gung unq evcrarq vagb bcra ubfgvyvgl.

Sebz gung jr tbg gb gnyxvat nobhg angheny curabzran naq fgbezf. V fcbxr
bs gur plpybar jvgu fbzr srryvat naq n yvggyr ovggrearff, creuncf,
oevrsyl gryyvat zl bja rkcrevrapr, naq znxvat gur fgbez nf ybhq naq jrg
naq ivbyrag nf cbffvoyr.

Gura n tragyrzna sebz Xnafnf, anzrq Trbetr Y. Zheqbpx, na byq pnggyrzna,
jnf gryyvat bs n plpybar gung pnzr npebff uvf enatr gjb lrnef ntb ynfg
Frcgrzore. Gur fxl jnf pyrne gb ortva jvgu, naq gura nyy ng bapr, nf Ze.
Zheqbpx fgngrf, n yvggyr pybhq ab ynetre guna n zna'f unaq zvtug unir
orra frra. Vg zbirq gbjneq gur fbhgujrfg tragyl, jvgu vgf unaqf va vgf
cbpxrgf sbe n srj zbzragf, naq gura Ze. Zheqbpx qvfpbirerq gung vg jnf
bs n cnyr-terra pbybe, nobhg fvkgrra unaqf uvtu, jvgu qnex-oyhr znar naq
gnvy. Nobhg n zvyr sebz jurer ur fgbbq gur plpybar, jvgu terng sbepr,
fjbbcrq qbja naq, jvgu n zhssyrq ebne, fjrcg n dhnegre-frpgvba bs ynaq
bhg sebz haqre n urnil zbegtntr jvgubhg vawhevat gur zbegtntr va gur
yrnfg. Ur fnlf gung crbcyr pnzr sbe zvyrf gur sbyybjvat qnl gb frr gur
zbegtntr, fgvyy ba svyr ng gur bssvpr bs gur ertvfgre bs qrrqf naq whfg
nf tbbq nf rire.

Gura n tragyrzna anzrq Orna, bs jrfgrea Zvaarfbgn, n zna jub jrag gurer
va na rneyl qnl naq ubzrfgrnqrq vg jura uvf arnerfg arvtuobe jnf svsgl
zvyrf njnl, fcbxr bs n plpybar gung ivfvgrq uvf pbhagl orsber gur
gryrtencu be envyebnq unq crargengrq gung cneg bs gur fgngr.

Ze. Orna fnvq vg jnf irel pyrne hc gb gur zbzrag gung ur abgvprq n pybhq
va gur abegujrfg ab ynetre guna n zna'f unaq. Vg fnhagrerq qbja va n
fbhgujrfgreyl qverpgvba yvxr n plpybar gung unq nyy fhzzre gb qb vgf
puberf va. Gura vg tnir gjb dhvpx fabegf naq n ebne, jvcrq bhg bs
rkvfgrapr nyy gur snez ohvyqvatf ur unq, fhpxrq gur jryy qel, fbherq nyy
gur zvyx va gur zvyx ubhfr, naq fcernq qrfbyngvba nyy bire gung
dhnegre-frpgvba. Ohg Ze. Orna fnvq gung gur zbfg erznexnoyr guvat ur
erzrzorerq jnf guvf: Ur unq qht nobhg n cvag bs natyr jbezf gung
zbeavat, vagraqvat gb tb bire gb gur ynxr gbjneq riravat naq pngpu n srj
crepu. Ohg jura gur plpybar pnzr vg cvpxrq hc gubfr natyr jbezf naq
qebir gurz urnq svefg guebhtu uvf arj tevaqfgbar jvgubhg vawhevat gur
jbezf be vzcnvevat gur tevaqfgbar. Ur jbhyq unir unq gur tevaqfgbar
cubgbtencurq, ur fnvq, vs gur natyr jbezf pbhyq unir orra xrcg fgvyy
ybat rabhtu. Ur fnvq gung gurl jrer qevira whfg sne rabhtu guebhtu gb
unat ba gur bgure fvqr yvxr n ynzoerdhva.

Gur plpybar vf pregnvayl n jbaqreshy curabzraba, vgf zbirzragf ner fb
reengvp, naq va qverpg ivbyngvba bs nyy xabja ehyrf.

Ze. Ybhvf C. Onexre bs abegurea Vbjn jnf nyfb ba gur pne, naq ur
qrfpevorq n plpybar gung ur fnj va gur '70f nybat va Frcgrzore ng gur
pybfr bs n ubg ohg pyrne qnl. Gur svefg vagvzngvba gung Ze. Onexre unq
bs na nccebnpuvat fgbez jnf n fznyy pybhq ab ynetre guna n zna'f unaq
juvpu ur qvfpbirerq zbivat fybjyl gbjneq gur fbhgujrfg jvgu n tlengbel
zbirzrag. Vg gura nccrnerq gb or n shaary-funcrq pybhq juvpu cnffrq
nybat arne gur fhesnpr bs gur tebhaq jvgu vgf ncrk abj naq gura yvtugyl
gbhpuvat n onea be n jryy, naq chyyvat vg bhg ol gur ebbgf. Vg jbhyq
gura obhaq yvtugyl vagb gur nve naq fcvg ba vgf unaqf. Jung ur abgvprq
zbfg pnershyyl ba gur sbyybjvat qnl jnf gur jbaqreshy rivqraprf bs vgf
cbjreshy fhpgvba. Vg fhpxrq n zvypu pbj nofbyhgryl qel, chyyrq nyy gur
jngre bhg bs uvf pvfgrea, naq gura jrag nebhaq gb gur jnfgr-jngre cvcr
gung yrq sebz gur ongu-ebbz naq qerj n 2-lrne-byq puvyq, jub jnf gnxvat
n ongu ng gur gvzr, pyrne qbja guebhtu gur gjb-vapu jnfgr-cvcr, n
qvfgnapr bs 150 srrg. Ur unq gjb vapurf bs gur cvcr jvgu uvz naq n ybpx
bs unve sebz gur puvyq'f urnq.

Vg vf fhpu pvephzfgnaprf nf gurfr, pbzvat gb hf sebz gur zbhguf bs
rlr-jvgarffrf, gung yrnqf hf gb rkpynvz: Ubj cebyvsvp vf angher naq ubj
jbaqreshy ner nyy ure jbexf--vapyhqvat cbbe, jrnx zna! Zna, jub pbzrf
vagb gur jbeyq pybgurq va n yvggyr oevrs nhgubevgl, creuncf, naq abguvat
ryfr gb fcrnx bs. Ur evfrf hc va gur zbeavat, cerinevpngrf, naq qvrf.
Jurer ner bhe orfg yvnef gb-qnl? Ybbx sbe gurz jurer lbh jvyy naq lbh
jvyy svaq gung gurl ner cnffvat njnl. Tb vagb gur przrgrel naq gurer lbh
jvyy svaq gurz zvatyvat jvgu gur qhfg, ohg fgevivat fgvyy gb crecrghngr
gurve ohfvarff ol znexvat gurve gbzof jvgu n tragyr cerinevpngvba,
puvfryrq va raqhevat fgbar.

V unir urneq vg vagvzngrq ol crbcyr jub frrzrq gb xabj jung gurl jrer
gnyxvat nobhg gung gehgu vf zvtugl naq jvyy cerinvy, ohg V qb abg frr
zhpu fubj sbe ure gvyy gur plpybar frnfba vf bire.




GUR RNEGU.


Gur rnegu vf gung obql va gur fbyne flfgrz juvpu zbfg bs zl ernqref abj
erfvqr hcba, naq juvpu fbzr bs gurz, V erterg gb fnl, zbqrfgyl qrfver gb
bja naq pbageby, sbetrggvat gung gur rnegu vf gur Ybeq'f, naq gur
shyyarff gurerbs. Fbzr zra qb abg pner jub bjaf gur rnegu fb ybat nf
gurl trg gur shyyarff.

Gur rnegu vf 500,000,000 lrnef bs ntr, nppbeqvat gb Cebs. Cebpgbe, ohg
fur qbrfa'g ybbx vg gb zr. Gur Qhxr bs Netlyy znvagnvaf gung fur vf
10,000,000 lrnef byq ynfg Nhthfg, ohg jung qbrf na beqvanel qhxr xabj
nobhg gurfr guvatf? Fb sne nf V nz pbaprearq V jvyy chg Cebpgbe'f zrzbel
ntnvafg gung bs nal ybj-cevprq qhxr gung V unir rire frra.

Arjgba pynvzrq gung gur rnegu jbhyq tenqhnyyl qel hc naq orpbzr cbebhf,
naq gung jngre jbhyq ng ynfg orpbzr n phevbfvgl. Znal oryvrir guvf naq
ner encvqyl cercnevat gurve flfgrzf ol n evtvq pbhefr bs gerngzrag, fb
gung gurl pna yvir sbe lrnef jvgubhg gur hfr bs jngre vagreanyyl be
rkgreanyyl.

Bgure fpvragvfgf jub unir fng hc avtugf gb zbaxrl jvgu gur fbyne flfgrz,
naq gurerol funggrerq gurve areibhf flfgrzf, pynvz gung gur rnegu vf
trggvat gbc-urnil ng gur abegu cbyr, naq gung bar bs gurfr qnlf juvyr jr
ner guvaxvat bs fbzrguvat ryfr, gur terng jrvtug bs npphzzhyngrq vpr,
fabj, naq gur infg npphzzhyngvba bs frpbaq-unaq nepgvp eryvrs
rkcrqvgvbaf, jvyy wrex gur rnegu bhg bs vgf cerfrag cbfvgvba jvgu fb
zhpu fcbagnarvgl, naq va fhpu na rkgerzryl sbegujvgu znaare, gung znal
crbcyr jvyy or creznaragyl fgenovfzhfrq naq zhpu oevp-n-oenp jvyy or sbe
fnyr ng n terng fnpevsvpr. Guvf znl be znl abg or gehr. V unir abg orra
hc va gur nepgvp ertvbaf gb vairfgvtngr vgf gehgu be snyfvgl, gubhtu
gurer frrzf gb or n tebjvat fragvzrag guebhtubhg gur pbhagel va snibe bs
zl tbvat. N terng znal crbcyr qhevat gur cnfg lrne unir jevggra zr naq
tvira zr gurve pbafrag.

Vs V pbhyq gnxr nobhg gjragl tbbq, cvpxrq zra, naq tb hc gurer sbe gur
fhzzre, vafgrnq bs oevatvat onpx gjragl cvpxrq zra, V jbhyqa'g zvaq gur
gevc, naq V srry gung jr ernyyl bhtug gb unir n ynetre pbybal ba vpr va
gung ertvba guna jr abj unir.

Gur rnegu vf pbzcbfrq bs ynaq naq jngre. Fbzr bs gur jngre unf ynetr
puhaxf bs vpr va vg. Gur rnegu eribyirf nebhaq vgf bja nkyr bapr va
gjragl-sbhe ubhef, gubhtu vg frrzf gb eribyir snfgre guna gung, naq gb
jbooyr n tbbq qrny qhevat gur ubyvqnlf. Abguvat gvpxyrf gur rnegu zber
guna gb pbashfr n zna jura ur vf pbzvat ubzr yngr ng avtug, naq gura gb
evfr hc fhqqrayl naq uvg uvz va gur onpx jvgu n gbja ybg. Crbcyr jub
guvax gurer vf ab sha be erynkngvba nzbat gur urnirayl obqvrf pregnvayl
unir abg fghqvrq gurve unovgf. Rira gur zbba vf n uhzbevfg.

N sevraq bs zvar, jub jnf ergheavat yngr ng avtug sebz n erthyne zrrgvat
bs gur Fbpvrgl sbe gur Nzryvbengvba bs gur Ubg Fpbgpu, fnvq gung gur
rnegu ebfr hc fhqqrayl va sebag bs uvz, naq uvg uvz jvgu n evtug bs jnl,
naq nf ur jnf nobhg gb evfr hc ntnva ur jnf fghaarq ol n greevsvp oybj
orgjrra gur fubhyqre oynqrf jvgu na byq ynaq tenag gung ur gubhtug unq
yncfrq lrnef ntb. Jura ur fgnttrerq gb uvf srrg ur sbhaq gung gur zbba,
va beqre gb nqq gb uvf pbashfvba, unq tbar qbja va sebag bs uvz, naq
evfra ntnva oruvaq uvz, jvgu ure guhzo ba ure abfr.

Fb V fnl, jvgubhg srne bs fhpprffshy pbagenqvpgvba, gung vs lbh qb abg
guvax gung cynargf naq beof naq bar guvat naq nabgure unir sha ba gur
dhvrg lbh ner tebffyl vtabenag bs gurve unovgf.

Gur rnegu vf nobhg unys jnl orgjrra Zrephel naq Fnghea va gur znggre bs
qrafvgl. Zrephel vf bs nobhg gur fcrpvsvp tenivgl bs veba, juvyr gung bs
Fnghea pbeerfcbaqf jvgu gung bs pbex va gur znggre bs qrafvgl naq
fcrpvsvp tenivgl. Gur rnegu, bs pbhefr, qbrf abg pbzcner jvgu Zrephel va
gur znggre bs fbyvqvgl, lrg vg vf nzcyl svez sbe nyy cenpgvpny checbfrf.
N arteb jub sryy bhg bs gur gbjre bs n gjryir-fgbel ohvyqvat juvyr
gelvat gb pyrna gur hccre jvaqbj ol qevaxvat n dhneg bs nypbuby naq gura
oernguvat uneq ba gur tynff, fnlf gung ur ertneqf gur rnegu nf cresrpgyl
fbyvq, naq fnsr gb qb ohfvarff ba sbe lrnef gb pbzr. Ur pynvzf gung
gubfr jub znvagnva gung gur rnegu'f pehfg vf bayl 2,500 zvyrf va
guvpxarff unir abg gubebhtuyl grfgrq gur znggre ol n flfgrz bs cenpgvpny
rkcrevzragf.

Gur cbyrf bs gur rnegu ner zreryl vzntvanel. V ungr gb cevag guvf
fgngrzrag va n ynetr cncre va fhpu n jnl nf gb vawher gur erchgngvba bs
terng jevgref ba guvf fhowrpg jub fgvyy pyvat gb gur gurbel gung gur
rnegu eribyirf hcba ynetr cbyrf, naq gung gur nheben obernyvf vf ohg
gur ersyrpgvba sebz n ubg obk ng gur abegu cbyr, ohg V nz urer gb gryy
gur gehgu, naq vs zl ernqref guvax vg qvfnterrnoyr gb ernq gur gehgu,
jung zhfg or zl nathvfu jub unir gb gryy vg? Gur zrna qvnzrgre bs gur
rnegu vf 7,916 Ratyvfu fgnghgr zvyrf, ohg gur npghny qvnzrgre sebz cbyr
gb cbyr vf n fgvyy zrnare qvnzrgre, orvat 7,899 zvyrf, juvyr gur
rdhngbevny qvnzrgre vf 7,925-1/2 zvyrf.

Gur ybat naq cngvrag fgehttyr bs bhe rnearfg naq gveryrff trbtencuref
naq fninagf va cnfg lrnef va beqre gb bognva gurfr svtherf naq unir gurz
rknpg, srj pna shyyl ernyvmr. Gur ybat naq gunaxyrff wbo bs zrnfhevat
gur qvnzrgre bs gur rnegu, ab znggre jung gur jrngure zvtug or, njnl
sebz ubzr naq sevraqf, sbbgfber naq jrnel, fgvyy cybqqvat ba, sngvthrq
ohg qrgrezvarq gb xabj gur zrna qvnzrgre bs gur rnegu, rira vs vg gbbx n
yrt, zrnfhevat ba sbe gubhfnaqf bs jrnel zvyrf, naq trggvat snegure naq
snegure njnl sebz ubzr, naq gura sbetrggvat, creuncf, ubj znal gubhfnaq
zvyrf gurl unq tbar, naq orvat pbzcryyrq gb tb onpx naq zrnfher vg bire
ntnva juvyr gurve abfrf tbg erq naq gurve svatref jrer orahzorq. Gurfr,
sryybj-pvgvmraf, ner n srj bs gur fnpevsvprf gung fpvrapr unf znqr ba
bhe orunys va beqre gung jr znl abg tebj hc va vtabenapr. Gurfr ner n
srj bs gur oyrffrq cevivyrtrf juvpu, nybat jvgu yvsr, yvoregl, naq gur
chefhvg bs unccvarff, ner bhef--bhef gb nagvpvcngr, bhef gb
cnegvpvcngr, bhef gb cerpvcvgngr.

[Vyyhfgengvba]




SENAPVFPB CVMNEEB'F PNERRE.

OBEA VA FUNZR NAQ ERNERQ NZBAT FJVAR, UR PBADHREF SNZR NAQ SBEGHAR VA
CREH JVGU GUR FJBEQ--UVFGBEL BS N FRYS-ZNQR ZNA.

OVYY ALR.


Creuncf gur uvfgbel bs gur jrfgrea urzvfcurer unf arire sheavfurq n zber
jbaqreshy rknzcyr bs gur frys-znqr zna guna znl or sbhaq va gur crefba
bs Senapvfpb Cvmneeb, n tragyrzna jub pnzr gb Nzrevpn nobhg 1510,
vagraqvat gb tebj hc jvgu gur pbhagel.

Ze. Cvmneeb jnf obea ng Gehkvyyb, Fcnva, nobhg 1471. Uvf sngure jnf n
Fcnavfu pbybary bs sbbg naq uvf zbgure jnf n crnfnag tvey jub nqzverq
naq erfcrpgrq gur qnfuvat pbybary irel zhpu, ohg sryg gung fur unq
fpehcyrf nobhg zneevntr, naq fb, nygubhtu lrnef nsgrejneq Senapvfpb
gevrq uvf orfg gb znxr n zngpu orgjrra uvf sngure naq zbgure, gurl jrer
arire zneevrq. Vg vf fnvq gung guvf rzovggrerq uvf jubyr yvsr. Abar ohg
gubfr jub unir rkcrevraprq vg pna shyyl ernyvmr jung vg vf gb unir n
gunaxyrff cnerag.

Cvmneeb'f zbgure'f anzr jnf Rfgenznqhen. Guvf jnf ure znvqra anzr. Vg
jnf n anzr juvpu frrzrq gb unezbavmr jryy jvgu ure evpu, cvpxyrq-byvir
pbzcyrkvba naq fb fur ergnvarq vg nyy ure yvsr. Ure fba qvq abg unir
znal rneyl nqinagntrf, sbe ur jnf artyrpgrq ol uvf zbgure naq nyybjrq gb
tebj hc n fjvarureq, naq vg vf rira fnvq gung ur jnf fhpxyrq ol fjvar va
uvf vasnapl juvyr uvf tvqql zbgure wbvarq va gur znq juvey ng gur
fxngvat-evax. Jr pna uneqyl vzntvar nalguvat zber cvgvnoyr guna gur
pbaqvgvba bs n yvggyr puvyq yrsg gb ehfgyr sbe abhevfuzrag nzbat gur
oynpx-naq-gna ubtf bs Fcnva juvyr uvf sngure cynlrq byq fyrqtr ba gur
sebagvre va gur erthyne nezl naq uvf zbgure fgbbq ba ure Fcnavfu urnq
naq jebgr ure pvtne-obk anzr va gur ngzbfcurer ng gur evax.

Cbbe yvggyr Cvmneeb unq abar bs gur zbqrea nqinagntrf, gurersber, naq
uvf rqhpngvba jnf rkgerzryl pehqr. Gur uvfgbevna fnlf gung ur terj hc n
obyq, vtabenag, naq oehgny zna. Ur pnzr gb jung jnf gura pnyyrq Fcnavfu
Nzrevpn ng gur ntr bs 39 lrnef naq nffvfgrq Ze. Onyobn va qvfpbirevat
gur Cnpvsvp bprna. Univat urneq bs gur rkvfgrapr bs Creh jvgu nyy vgf
jrnygu, Cvmneeb frpherq n onaq bs frys-znqr zra yvxr uvzfrys naq yvg bhg
sbe gung cebivapr sbe gur checbfr bs pbadhrevat vg vs ur yvxrq vg naq
oevatvat ubzr fbzr fbyvq fvyire grncbgf naq tbyq-yvarq pneq-erprviref.
Ur jnf ratntrq va tngurevat guvf yvar bs tbbqf naq jbexvat gurz bss ba
gur cnjaoebxre sbe gjragl-bar lrnef, qhevat juvpu gvzr ur qvq abg trg
xvyyrq, ohg pbagvahrq gb rawbl n ernfbanoyr qrterr bs urnygu naq
fgeratgu.

Nygubhtu Creh ng gung gvzr jnf dhvgr qrafryl cbchyngrq jvgu na
vaqhfgevbhf naq jrnygul pynff bs angvirf, Cvmneeb fhoqhrq ure jvgu 110
sbbg fbyqvref nezrq jvgu byq-snfuvbarq zhfxrgf gung unq gurfr shyy-oybja
oneeryf, jvgu zhmmyrf ba gurz yvxr gur ohfvarff raq bs n ghon ubea,
fvkgl-frira zbhagrq zra, naq gjb gbl pnaaba ybnqrq jvgu pnecrg-gnpxf.
Jvgu ab rqhpngvba, naq, jung jnf fgvyy uneqre gb orne, gur vaare
pbafpvbhfarff gung uvf cneragf jrer cynva, pbzzba, rirel-qnl crbcyr
jubfr cbfvgvba va yvsr jbhyq abg nqinapr uvz va gur rfgvzngvba bs gur
Crehivnaf, ur onggyrq ba. Uvf rssbegf jrer pebjarq jvgu fhpprff,
vafbzhpu gung ng gur pybfr bs gur lrne 1532 crnpr jnf qrpynerq naq ur
pbhyq oerngur gur serr nve bapr zber jvgubhg srne bs trggvat n oebamr
neebj-urnq zvkrq hc jvgu uvf xvqarlf jura uvf onpx jnf ghearq. "Sbe gur
svefg gvzr va gjb lrnef," fnlf gur uvfgbevna, "Cvmneeb jnf noyr gb gnxr
bss uvf gva uryzrg naq uvf furrg-veba pbefrg ng avtug jura ur ynl qbja
gb erfg, be haqvfznlrq gb tb sbegu onerurnqrq naq jrnevat bayl uvf
pevaxyrq frrefhpxre pbng naq n cnve bs fnaqnyf ng gur gjvyvtug ubhe naq
gvyy zvqavtug jnaqre nybar nzvq gur snzbhf thnab tebirf bs Creh."

Fhpu vf gur uvfgbel bs n zna jub arire rira xarj ubj gb jevgr uvf bja
anzr. Ur jba snzr sbe uvzfrys naq terng jrnygu jvgubhg na rqhpngvba be n
ybat, qnex-oyhr yvarntr. Cvmneeb jnf yvxr Wbo. Lbh xabj, jr fbzrgvzrf
fvat:

    Bu, Wbo, ur jnf n svar lbhat ynq,
          Fvat tybel unyyryhwnu.
    Uvf urneg jnf tbbq ohg uvf oybbq jnf onq,
          Fvat tybel unyyryhwnu.

Fb Cvmneeb pbhyq abg oent ba uvf oybbq naq uvf rqhpngvba jnf abg
pynffvpny. Ur pbhyq abg jevgr uvf anzr, gubhtu ur gevrq snvgushyyl sbe
znal lrnef. Qnl nsgre qnl qhevat gur pnzcnvta, naq yngr vagb gur avtug,
jura gur lnyyre qbtf bs Yvzn pnzr sbegu jvgu gurve Crehivna onex, ur
jbhyq trg uvf beqreyl fretrnag gb frg uvz gur pbcl:

"Cnhy znl cynag naq Ncbyyvanevf jngre, ohg vg vf Tbq gung tvirgu gur
vapernfr."

Gura Cvmneeb jbhyq oevat bhg uvf jevgvat zngrevny naq uvf gbathr naq gel
gb jevgr, ohg ur arire pbhyq qb vg. Uvf jnf abg n fghqvbhf zvaq. Vg jnf
zber ba gur xabpx-qbja-naq-qent-bhg beqre.

Cvmneeb jnf znqr n znedhvf va nsgre lrnef. Ur jnf nyfb znqr n pbecfr. Ur
npdhverq gur ynggre cbfvgvba gbjneq gur pybfr bs uvf yvsr. Ur, ng bar
gvzr, zneevrq gur vapn'f qnhtugre naq sbhaqrq n ybat yvar bs tenaqrrf,
znedhvfrf, naq znpnebav fphycgbef, jubfr anzrf znl or sbhaq ba gur
pbiref bs vzcbegrq pvtne obkrf naq va gur gbczbfg gvre bs gur
jebhtug-veba erfbegf va bhe orfg cravgragvnevrf.

Cvmneeb yvirq n irel ohfl yvsr qhevat gur pbadhrfg, fbzr qnlf xvyyvat nf
znal nf friragl naq rvtugl Crehivnaf orgjrra fha naq fha. Ohg qrngu ng
ynfg pebbxrq uvf svatre ng gur znedhvf naq ur fyrcg. Jr nyy oent naq
oybj bhe ubea urer sbe n srj oevrs lrnef, vg vf gehr, ohg jura gur tevz
erncre jvgu uvf arj naq nhgbzngvp gjvar-ovaqre pbzrf nybat ur tnguref hf
va; gur jrnx naq gur fgebat, gur vtabenag naq gur rqhpngrq, gur cynva
naq gur ornhgvshy, gur lbhat naq gur byq, gubfr jub unir whfg favssrq
gur fjrrg naq qrj-ynqra nve bs yvsr'f zbeavat naq gubfr jub ner sbbgfber
naq jrnel naq jnvgvat--nyy nyvxr zhfg obj ybj gb gur fvpxyr gung tbrf ba
phggvat pybfre naq pybfre gb hf rira jura jr fyrrc.

Unq Cvmneeb gubhtug zber nobhg guvf znggre, ur jbhyq unir orra nurnq
gb-qnl.

[Vyyhfgengvba]




OVYY ALR.

UR QVFPBIREF N ZNA JVGU NA VQRN--N ARJ CYNA BS EHAAVAT N TBBQ
UBGRY--VZCEBIRZRAGF SBE JUVPU CRBCYR CNL VA NQINAPR.


Gur sbyybjvat pvephyne sebz n ubgry-zna va Xnafnf vf tbvat nobhg bire
gur pbhagel, naq vg pregnvayl qrfreirf zber guna n cnffvat abgvpr. V
punatr gur anzr bs gur ubgry naq cebcevrgbe va beqre gb nibvq tvivat nal
serr obbz gb n zna jub frrzf gb or gubebhtuyl frys-eryvnag naq noyr gb
gnxr pner bs uvzfrys. Gur erfg bs gur pvephyne vf npphengryl pbcvrq:

     XNAFNF.--_Qrne Fve:_ Abg univat rabhtu ebbz haqre bhe cerfrag
     neenatrzragf, naq jvfuvat gb znxr gur Ebyyre-Gbjry Ubhfr gur
     erpbtavmrq urnq-dhnegref sbe geniryvat zra, jr qrfver gb raynetr
     gur ohvyqvat. Abg univat gur zbarl ba unaq gb qb fb, jr znxr gur
     sbyybjvat cebcbfvgvba: Vs lbh jvyy nqinapr hf $5, gb or hfrq sbe
     gur nobir checbfr, jr jvyy qrqhpg gung nzbhag sebz lbhe ovyy jura
     fgbccvat jvgu hf. Jr srry nffherq gung gur geniryvat zra nccerpvngr
     bhe rssbegf gb tvir gurz svefg-pynff nppbzzbqngvbaf, naq nf gur
     nobir nzbhag jvyy or qrqhpgrq sebz lbhe ovyy jura fgbccvat jvgu hf,
     jr ubcr sbe n snibenoyr ercyl. Fubhyq lbh abg ivfvg bhe gbja ntnva
     gur ybna jvyy or ercnvq va pnfu.

    W. XENFU GBJRY,

    Cebcevrgbe Ebyyre-Gbjry Ubhfr.

Urer jr unir n zna jvgu n dhvrg, tragyrznayl jnl, naq lrg jvguny n pbby,
yriry urnq, n zna jub xabjf jura ur arrqf zber ebbz naq ubj orfg gb tb
gb jbex gb erzrql gung qrsrpg. Ze. Gbjry frrf gung nabgure ebj bs
fyrrcvat ebbzf, phg ybj va gur prvyvat, vf npghnyyl arrqrq. Va snapl ur
nyernql frrf gurfr ebbzf nqqrq gb uvf ubhfr. Rnpu unf n fgevc bs urzc
pnecrg va sebag bs gur orq naq n phgr yvggyr terra funqr bire gur
jvaqbj, n funqr gung snyyf qbja jura jr gel gb nqwhfg vg, svyyvat gur
ebbz jvgu Xnafnf qhfg. Va uvf qernzf ur frrf rnpu ebbz svggrq bhg jvgu
bar bs gubfr fzbbgu, qrprcgvir orqf gung ner nyy evtug hagvy jr ortva gb
hfr gurz sbe fyrrcvat checbfrf, n orq gung gur gnyy zna yvrf qvntbanyyl
npebff naq tebnaf guebhtu gur yvirybat avtug.

Ze. Gbjry unf znqr n encvq pnyphyngvba ba gur ohggrerq fvqr bs n zrah,
naq nfpregnvarq gung vs bar-unys gur geniryvat zra va gur Havgrq Fgngrf
jbhyq xvaqyl nqinapr $5, gb or ershaqrq va pnfr gurl qvq abg qrpvqr gb
znxr n gbhe gb gur Ebyyre Gbjry Ubhfr, naq gb or gnxra bhg bs gur ovyy
va pnfr gurl qvq, gur nzbhag fb erprvirq jbhyq abg bayl nqq n ebj bs
pbzcerffrq ubg-nve orqebbzf, jvgu syrkvoyr fbnc naq n qryvevbhf-ybbxvat
tynff, ohg nyfb vafher na ryrpgevp ohggba, juvpu znl be znl abg pbaarpg
jvgu gur bssvpr, naq bire juvpu fnvq ohggba gur sbyybjvat rcvgncu pbhyq
or rerpgrq:

    Bar Evat sbe Oryy Obl.
    Gjb Evatf sbe Cbegre.
    Guerr Evatf sbe Vpr Jngre.
    Sbhe Evatf sbe Ebhtu ba Engf.
    Svir Evatf sbe Obeebjrq Zbarl.
    Fvk Evatf sbe Sver.
    Frira Evatf sbe Ubbx naq Ynqqre Pbzcnal.

Va snpg, n zna pbhyq unir evatf ba uvf svatref naq oryy-oblf ba uvf gbrf
nyy gur gvzr vs ur jnagrq gb qb fb.

Naq lrg gurer jvyy or geniryvat-zra jub jvyy erprvir guvf xvaq pvephyne
naq fgvyy unat onpx. Pbafgnag pbagnpg jvgu n pbyq, pehry jbeyq unf znqr
gurz plavpny, naq gurl jvyy urfvgngr rira nsgre Ze. Gbjry unf fnvq gung
ur jvyy vzcebir uvf ubhfr jvgu gur zbarl, naq rira nsgre ur unf nffherq
hf gung jr arrq abg ivfvg Xnafnf ng nyy vs jr jvyy nqinapr gur zbarl.
Guvf fubjf gung ur vf abg nygbtrgure n urnegyrff zna. Ze. Gbjry znl or
cbbe, ohg ur vf abg jvgubhg pbafvqrengvba sbe gur srryvatf bs crbcyr jub
ybna uvz zbarl.

Sbe zl bja cneg V shyyl oryvrir gung Ze. Gbjry jbhyq or jvyyvat gb svg
hc uvf ubhfr naq chg zngpurf va rnpu ebbz vs geniryvat-zra guebhtubhg
gur pbhagel jbhyq erfcbaq gb guvf pnyy sbe nffvfgnapr.

Ohg gur gebhoyr vf gung gur geniryvat choyvp rkcrpg n ynaqybeq gb gnxr
nyy gur evfxf naq nqinapr nyy gur zbarl. Guvf znxrf gur znggre bs ubgry
xrrcvat n unmneqbhf bar. Ze. Gbjry nfxf gur thrfgf gb orpbzr na
vagrerfgrq cnegl. Abg gung ur va fb znal jbeqf nterrf gb qvivqr gur
cebsvgf cebcbegvbangryl ng gur raq bs gur lrne jvgu gur fgbpxubyqref,
ohg ur vf jvyyvat gb znxr uvf ubgry ynetre, naq vs sbbq qbrf abg pbzr hc
nf snfg nf vg tbrf qbja--va cevpr, V zrna--ur jvyy gel gb znxr nyy uvf
thrfgf srry cresrpgyl pbzsbegnoyr juvyr va uvf ubhfr.

Haqre snibenoyr pvephzfgnaprf gur Ebyyre-Gbjry Ubhfr jbhyq ab qbhog or
gubebhtuyl ersvggrq naq ersheavfurq guebhtubhg. Gur yvggyr
jevgvat-gnoyr va rnpu ebbz jbhyq unir vgf yrtf ertyhrq, arj jvpxf jbhyq
or vafregrq va gur xrebfrar ynzcf, gur fgnvef jbhyq or qnmmyrq bire jvgu
fbsg fbnc, naq gur grrgu va gur pbzo qbja va gur jnfu-ebbz jbhyq or
erfrg naq svyyrq. Ahzrebhf punatrf jbhyq or znqr va gur pbecf qr onyyrg
nyfb. Gur ynetr-unaqrq punzoreznvq, jvgu gur pbj-pngpure grrgu naq gur
erq Oenmvy-ahg bs unve ba gur onpx bs ure urnq, jbhyq or frag qbja va
gur qvavat-ebbz gb erpvgr gung yvggyr eurgbevpny ohefg fb bsgra eraqrerq
ol gur rybphgvbavfg bs gur qvavat-ebbz--gur fzneg Nyrpxhgvbavfg, va gur
ynathntr bs gur cbrg, ortvaavat: "Osfgrnxcexfgx'apbyqgf," jvgu n snyyvat
vasyrpgvba gung fgvpxf vgf urnq vagb gur obfbz bs gur rnegu naq tvirf
vgf gnvy n gerzbyb zbirzrag va gur nve.

Ba erprvcg bs $5 sebz rnpu bar bs gur geniryvat zra bs gur havba arj
uvatrf jbhyq or chg vagb gur fyvccrel-ryz gbjryf; gur cvax fbnc jbhyq or
erineavfurq; gur qvssrerag xvaqf bs zrng ba gur gnoyr jvyy unir gntf ba
gurz, fgngvat va cynva jbeqf jung xvaqf bs zrng gurl ner fb gung thrfgf
jvyy abg or sbeprq gb gnxr gur jbeq bs freinag be gb eryl ba gurve bja
whqtrzrag; serfu ivartne jvgu n fbhe gnfgr gb vg, naq jvgubhg zvpeborf,
jvyy or chg va gur pehrgf; gur byq naq hfryrff pbpxebnpurf jvyy or
qvfpunetrq; naq gur yngrfg naq zbfg nccebirq nqwhapgf bs ubgry yvsr jvyy
or nqbcgrq.

Jul, gura, fubhyq gur geniryvat zna urfvgngr? Jul fubhyq ur qbhog naq
qenj onpx, snygre naq fuevax? Jul fubhyq ur nyybj crffvzvfz naq bgure
sbervta fhofgnaprf gb trg vagb uvf flfgrz naq punatr uvf jubyr yvsr?

Yrg uvz erzvg $5 gb gur Ebyyre Gbjry Ubhfr, naq vs guvf fubhyq cebir n
fhpprff ur znl nffvfg bgure ubgryf va gur fnzr znaare. Ur jbhyq guhf
srry na vagrerfg va gurve tebjgu naq cebfcrevgl. Gura, nf ur orpnzr zber
naq zber sberunaqrq, ur pbhyq nffvfg gur envyebnqf, gur 'ohf yvarf, naq
gur obbg-oynpxf, oneoref, ynhaqevrf, &p., va gur fnzr znaare. V jbhyq
yvxr gb pnyy hcba gur Nzrevpna crbcyr va gur fnzr jnl.

V jbhyq yvxr irel zhpu gb rfgnoyvfu n avpr, rkcrafvir ubzr sbe
varoevngrf. Vg jbhyq pbfg, cebcreyl svggrq hc, nobhg $750,000 be
$800,000. Vs gubfr jub ernq guvf negvpyr jvyy yraq $50, ol rkcerff be
qensg, V jvyy gnxr vg bhg bs gurve ovyy gur svefg gvzr gurl jvyy fgbc ng
zl arj naq nggenpgvir varoevngr nflyhz. Jub jvyy or gur svefg gb
pbagevohgr?--_Obfgba Tybor._




OVYY ALR "VAPHONGRF."


_Zl Qrne Fba:_ Jr ner fgvyy crttvat nybat urer ng ubzr va gur fnzr byq
jnl, lbhe zbgure naq zr. Jr ner arvgure bs hf erny jryy, naq lrg V
fhccbfr jr ner nf jryy nf sbyxf ng bhe gvzr bs yvsr pbhyq rkcrpg gb or.
Lbhe zbgure unf n tbbq qrny bs cnva va ure fvqr nyy gur juvyr naq V nz
bss zl srrq zber be yrff va gur zbeavat. Qbp unf svkrq zr hc fbzr
pbaqvgvba cbjqref gung ur fnlf jvyy fgenvtugra zr bhg evtug njnl.
Creuncf fb. Qbp unf fgenvtugrarq bhg n tbbq znal crbcyr va uvf gvzr. V
jvfu V unq nf znal qbyynef nf ur unf fgenvtugrarq bhg crbcyr.

Zbfg rirel Fcevat V'ir unq gb gnxr n yvggyr qnaqryvba ebbg, yvzorerq hc
jvgu tva, ohg guvf lrne gung qvqa'g frrz gb trg gurer, nf gur oblf fnl.
V svkrq hc n qbfg bs vg naq gbbx vg qnl naq avtug sbe n jrrx gvyy V jber
gung byq qnaqryvba ebbg pyrne qbja gb fxva naq obar, ohg va gra qnlf zl
nccrgvgr jnf jbefr guna rire naq V unq n urnq ba zr yvxr n 2-lrne-byq
pbyg. Qnaqryvba ebbg arire freirq zr gung jnl orsber naq lbhe zbgure
guvaxf gung gur tbbqarff vf nyy bhg bs vg, znl or. Vg'f gur fnzr byq
qnaqryvba ebbg gung V'ir orra hfvat sbe gjragl lrnef, naq V oryvrir jura
lbh'ir gevrq n guvat naq cebirq vg'f tbbq, lbh begrag gb punatr bss.

V gevrq gb trg lbhe zbgure gb gnxr n qbfg bs vg ynfg jrrx sbe gur cnva
va ure fvqr. Svkrq hc n gjb-dhneg wht bs vg sbe ure, ohg fur pna'g orne
gur fzryy bs tva fb V unq gb gnxr vg zlfrys. Qnaqryvba vf n terng
chevsvre bs gur oybbq, Urael. Fbzr qnlf nsgre V'ir orra gnxvat guvf
qnaqryvba ebbg sbe na ubhe be gjb V srry nf vs zl oybbq jnf cerggl arne
cher rabhtu. V srry yvxr n arj zna.

Lbh xabj V jebgr lbh ynfg jvagre, Urael, gung V jnf tbvat gb ohl fbzr
arj-snatyrq uraf va gur fcevat naq tb vagb gur rtt ohfvarff. Jryy, V
frag rnfg va Znepu sbe n pbhcyr bs sbjyf, bar bs rnpu frpg. Gurl pnzr ng
$9 cre cnve bire naq nobir envyebnq punetrf, juvpu jnf fbzr $4.35 zber
ba gbc bs gung.

V gubhtug gung nf fbba nf gur ura tbg urer naq tbg ure guvatf bss naq
tbg erfgrq fur jbhyq cebprrq gb ynl fbzr bs gurfr urer uvtu-cevprq rttf
juvpu jr ernq bs va gur Cbhygel-Xrrcref' Thvqr naq Nzrevpna Rttvfg. Ohg
fur frrzrq crafvir, naq jura V gevrq gb trg npdhnvagrq jvgu ure fur
jbhyq pyhpx va n pebhcl gbar bs ibvpr naq tb njnl.

Gur ebbfgre jnf ab qbhog n svar-ybbxvat oehgr jura ur jnf fuvccrq, ohg
jura ur tbg urer ur fgebyyrq nebhaq jvgu n cerbpphcvrq nve naq frrzrq gb
srry nobir hf. Ur jnf n cbxre-qbg ebbfgre, jvgu tenl znar naq gnvy, naq
ur jnf ab qbhog ersvarq, ohg V qvq abg guvax ur fubhyq srry nobir uvf
ohfvarff, sbe jr ner bayl cynva crbcyr jub ner npphfgbzrq gb gur
frys-znqr Nzrevpna ura. Ur frrzrq oberq nyy gur gvzr, naq V pbhyq frr
ol gur jnl ur npgrq gung ur cvarq gb or onpx va Serzbag, B., univat uvf
cvpgher gnxra sbe gur Cbhygel-Xrrcref' Thvqr naq Nzrevpna Rttvfg. Ur
fgvyy lrnearq sbe nccebongvba. Ur jnf hfrq gb orvat znqr bs, nf lbhe
zbgure fnlf, naq vg tnyyrq uvz gb ragre vagb bhe cynva, uhzqehz ubzr
yvsr.

V arire fnj fhpu n unhtugl ebbfgre va zl yvsr. Npghnyyl, jura V tbg bhg
gb srrq uvz va gur zbeavat ur jbhyq tvir zr n pbyq, neebtnag ybbx gung
uheg zl srryvatf. V xabj V'z abg jung lbh jbhyq pnyy na rqhpngrq zna abe
n cbyvfurq zna, gubhtu V pynvz gb unir n fba gung vf obgu bs fnvq
guvatf, ohg V ungr gb unir n ebbfgre pebj bire zr orpnhfr ur unf unq
orggre nqinagntrf naq orggre oerrqvat guna V unir. Fb gurer jnf ab ybir
ybfg orgjrra hf, nf lbh pna frr.

Qverpgyl V abgvprq gung gur ura ortna gb unir fcryyf bs iregvtb. Fur
jbhyq or fgnaqvat va n pbeare bs gur ura ergerng, eriregvat gb ure
wblbhf puvyqubbq ng Serzbag, B., jura nyy ng bapr fur jbhyq "snyy
frafryrff gb gur rnegu naq gurer yvr cebar hcba gur fjneq," gb hfr gur
jbeqf bs n terng jevgre jubfr nqqerff unf orra zvfynvq. Fur jbhyq erznva
va guvf pbzlgbrf pbaqvgvba sbe orgjrra svir zvahgrf, creuncf. Gura fur
jbhyq enyyl n yvggyr, fybjyl cel bcra ure ynetr, zbheashy rlrf, naq frrz
gb zhezhe "Jurer nz V?"

V pbhyq frr gung fur jnf rinqvat gur rtt vffhr va rirel jnl naq vtabevat
gur terng bowrpg sbe juvpu fur jnf perngrq. Jvgu gur novyvgl gb ynl rttf
jbegu sebz $4 gb $5.75 cre qbmra qryvirerq ba gur pnef, V pbhyq cynvayl
frr gung fur cebcbfrq gb ebyy hc guvf terng gnyrag va n ancxva naq cynl
gur vainyvq npg. V qb abg qvfthvfr gur snpg, Urael, gung V jnf znq. V
znqr n ynetr erpgnathyne nssvqnivg va gur vaare grzcyr bs gur ubefr-onea
gung guvf cbxre-qbg ura fubhyq arire yvir gb fnl gung V unq frag ure gb
gur frnfuber sbe ure urnygu jura fur jnf rzvaragyl svggrq ol angher gb
cyrnfr gur choyvp jvgu ure ynl.

V gurersber tnir ure gjb jrrxf gb qrpvqr ba jurgure fur jbhyq pbagevohgr
n srj bs ure zrevgbevbhf negvpyrf be vafreg urefrys vagb n puvpxra cvr.

Fur fgvyy pbagvahrq unhtugl gb gur ynfg zbzrag. Fb qvq ure cneqare. Jr
gurersber gerngrq bhefryirf gb n $9 qvaare va Ncevy.

V gura tbg fbzr rkcrafvir rttf sebz gur rssrgr rnfg. Gurl jrer abg
ebohfg rttf. Gurl jrer ynlrq qhevat n gvzr bs terng qrcerffvba, V whqtr.
Fb gurl jrer gung jnl gurzfryirf nyfb. Gurl pnzr ol rkcerff, naq jrer
vawherq juvyr orvat genafsreerq ng Puvpntb. Ab bar unf geniryyrq bire
gung yvar bs envyebnq fvapr.

V qb abg fnl gung gur rttf jrer onq, ohg V fnl gung gurve vafgvapgf naq
gurve vaare yvsr jnfa'g jung gurl beg gb unir orra.

Va rneyl Znl V obhtug bar bs gurfr vaxlongref gung qbrf gur jbex bs gra
frggvat uraf. V ubcrq gb urnq bss gur ura fb sne nf cbffvoyr, fvzcyl
chepunfvat ure yvgrenel rssbegf naq rqvgvat gurz gb fhvg zlfrys. V
pnaabg raqher gur fbpvrgl bs n ybj-oerq ura, naq n ersvarq ura frrzf gb
ybbx qbja ba zr, naq fb V gubhtug vs V pbhyq trg bar bs gubfr bgglzngvp
vaxlongref V pbhyq unir gur jubyr cebprff haqre zl bja pbageby, naq vs
gur oybbqrq uraf jnagrq gb tb gb gur fnavgnevhz naq fvg nebhaq gurer
jvgu gurve unaqf va gurve cbpxrgf juvyr gur terng uhatel jbeyq bs
genssvp pynzberq sbe zber fcevat puvpxraf sevrq va ohggre gurl zvtug qb
fb naq or qbttbarq.

Gurerhcba V obhtug bar bs gur zrqvhz fvmr, gjb fgbel ungpuref naq ybnqrq
vg jvgu rttf. Va zl qernzf V pbhyq frr n ybat cebprffvba bs shmml yvggyr
puvpxraf znepuvat bhg bs zl yvggyr vaxlongre nez va nez, rirel qnl be
gjb, juvyr zl onax nppbhag fjryyrq hc yvxr n qrprnfrq ubefr.

V jnf qernzvat bar bs gurfr qernzf avtug orsber ynfg ng zvqavtug'f ubyl
ubhe jura V jnf ehqryl njnxrarq ol n tnyyba bs pbyq jngre va bar bs zl
rnef. V nebfr va gur qnexarff naq erprvirq n fdhveg bs pbyq jngre
guebhtu gur jvaqbj sebz bhe rire-jngpushy naq pbhentrbhf sver
qrcnegzrag. V bcrarq gur pnfrzrag sbe gur checbfr bs gunaxvat gurz sbe
guvf yvggyr qrzbafgengvba, jubyyl hafbyvpvgrq ba zl cneg, jura V
qvfpbirerq gur uraarel jnf va synzrf.

V jrag qbja gb nffvfg gur qrcnegzrag, sbetrggvat gb chg ba zl cnagnybbaf
nf vf zl phfgbz bhg bs qrsrerapr gb gur hfntrf bs tbbq fbpvrgl. Jr fnirq
gur bgure ohvyqvatf, ohg gur ungpurel vf n znff bs fzbyqrevat ehvaf. Fb
nz V.

Vg frrzf gung gur xrebfrar ynzc juvpu V xrcg oheavat va gur vaxlongre
sbe gur checbfr bs znvagnvavat na rira grzcrengher, naq nyfb sbe gur
checbfr bs fubjvat gur puvpxraf gur jnl gb gur ryringbe va pnfr gurl
fubhyq ungpu bhg va gur avtug, unq gbepurq hc naq vtavgrq gur ungpurel,
fb gb fcrnx.

V frr ol zl cncre gung jr ner vzcbegvat 200,000,000 bs uraf' rttf sebz
Rhebcr rirel lrne. Vg'yy or 300,000,000 arkg lrne fb sne nf V'z
pbaprearq, Urael, naq lbh pna org lbhe yvggyr cyrngrq wnpxrg ba vg, gbb,
vs lbh jnag gb.

Gb-qnl V fraq C. B. beqre Ab. 143,876 sbe $3.50. V nterr jvgu gur ovoyr
gung "gur sbby naq uvf zbarl ner fbba cnegrq." Lbhe sngure,

    _Ovyy Alr._




OVYY ALR BA GBONPPB.--N QVFPBHENTRE BS PNAAVONYVFZ.


V nz tynq gb abgvpr n fgebat rssbeg ba gur cneg bs gur sevraqf bs
uhznavgl gb rapbhentr gubfr jub jvfu gb dhvg gur hfr bs gbonppb. Gb
dhvg gur hfr bs guvf jrrq vf bar bs gur zbfg nterrnoyr zrgubqf bs
erynkngvba. V unir gevrq vg n terng znal gvzrf, naq V pna fnsryl fnl
gung vg unf nssbeqrq zr zhpu fbyvq sryvpvgl.

Gb ivbyragyl ersbez naq pnfg njnl gur jrrq naq ng gur raq bs n jrrx gb
svaq n tbbq pvtne harkcrpgrqyl va gur dhvrg, habfgragngvbhf cbpxrg bs na
byq irfg, nssbeqf gur zbfg vagrafr naq qryvevbhf qryvtug.

Fpvragvfgf gryy hf gung n fvatyr qebc bs gur pbapragengrq bvy bs gbonppb
ba gur gbathr bs na nqhyg qbt vf sngny. V unir ab qbhog nobhg gur gehgu
be pburfvir cbjre bs guvf fgngrzrag, naq sbe gung ernfba V unir nyjnlf
orra bccbfrq gb gur hfr bs gbonppb nzbat qbtf. Qbtf fubhyq fuha gur
pbapragengrq bvy bs gbonppb, rfcrpvnyyl vs ybatrivgl or nal bowrpg gb
gurz. Arvgure jbhyq V nqivfr n zna jub znl unir pnavar graqrapvrf be n
fgenva bs gung oybbq va uvf irvaf gb hfr gur pbapragengrq bvy bs gbonppb
nf n fbmbqbag. Gb gubfr jub znl srry gung jnl nobhg gbonppb V jbhyq fnl,
fuha vg ol nyy zrnaf. Fuha vg nf lbh jbhyq gur qrnqyl hcnf gerr be gur
fgvyy zber qrnqyl juvccyr gerr bs gur gbcvpf.

Va jung V znl fnl haqre guvf urnq cyrnfr orne va zvaq gung V qb abg
fcrnx bs gur pvtnerggr. V nz abj pbasvavat zl erznexf ragveryl gb gur
fhowrpg bs gbonppb.

Gur hfr bs gur pvtnerggr vf, va snpg, orarsvpvny va va fbzr jnlf, naq
ab crfg ubhfr fubhyq gel gb trg nybat jvgubhg vg. Vg vf fnvq gung gurl
ner irel cbchyne va gur bevrag, rfcrpvnyyl va gur ynmne ubhfrf, jurer
yvsr jbhyq bgurejvfr orpbzr irel zbabgbabhf.

Fpvragvfgf, jub unir orra hanoyr gb fhpprffshyyl hfr gbonppb naq jub
gurersber unir tvira gurve jubyr yvirf naq gur hfr bs gurve zvpebfpbcrf
gb gur vairfgvtngvba bs vgf ubeebef, fnl gung pnaavonyf jvyy abg rng gur
syrfu bs gbonppb-hfvat uhzna orvatf. Naq lrg jr fnl gb bhe zvffvbanevrf:
"Ab zna pna or n Puevfgvna naq hfr gbonppb."

V fnl, naq V fnl vg, gbb, jvgu nyy gung qrcgu bs srryvat juvpu unf
nyjnlf punenpgrevmrq zl rnearfg angher, gung va guvf jr ner pbzzvggvat n
terng reebe.

Jung unir gur pnaavonyf rire qbar sbe hf nf n crbcyr gung jr fubhyq
nibvq gur hfr bs gbonppb va beqre gb svg bhe syrfu sbe gurve gnoyrf. Va
jung jnl unir gurl fbhtug gb nzryvbengr bhe pbaqvgvba va yvsr gung jr
fubhyq fgevir va qrngu gb gvpxyr gurve cnyngrf.

Ybbx ng gur uvfgbel bs gur pnaavony sbe cnfg ntrf. Ernq pnershyyl uvf
erpbeq naq lbh jvyy frr gung vg unf orra ohg gur uvfgbel bs n frysvfu
enpr. Pnfg lbhe rlr onpx bire lbhe fubhyqre sbe n praghel, naq jung qb
lbh svaq gb or gur pbaqvgvba bs gur pnaavonyvfgf? N arj zvffvbanel unf
ynaqrq n srj jrrxf cerivbhf creuncf. N yvggyr tebhc vf tngurerq nobhg
ba gur ornpu orarngu n gebcvpny gerr. Ercerfragngvir pnaavonyf sebz
nqwbvavat vfynaqf ner cerfrag. Gur bqbe bs fnapgvgl creinqrf gur nve.

Gur puvrs fvgf orarngu n arj hzoeryyn, ybbxvat ng gur cvpgherf va n
ynetr pbapbeqnapr. N arj cyht ung vf unatvat va n gerr arne ol.

Naba gur yrnqvat pvgvmraf tngure nobhg ba gur tebhaq, naq jr urne gur
puvrs nfx uvf nggbearl-trareny jurgure ur jvyy gnxr fbzr bs gur yvtug be
fbzr bs gur qnex zrng.

Gung vf nyy.

Sne njnl va Ratynaq gur cncre pbagnvaf gur sbyybjvat crefbany:

     JNAGRQ.--N LBHAT ZNA GB TB NF ZVFFVBANEL GB fhccyl inpnapl va bar
     bs gur pnaavony vfynaqf. Ur zhfg shyyl haqrefgnaq gur nccrgvgrf naq
     gnfgrf bs gur pnaavonyf, zhfg or noyr gb ernpu gurve vaare angher
     ng bapr, naq zhfg abg hfr gbonppb. Nccyvpnagf znl pbzzhavpngr va
     crefba be ol yrggre.

Vf vg fgenatr gung haqre gurfr pvephzfgnaprf gubfr jub serdhragrq gur
pnaavony vfynaqf qhevat gur ynfg praghel fubhyq unir dhvrgyl npphfgbzrq
gurzfryirf gb gur hfr bs n crphyvneyl creavpvbhf, ivbyrag, naq
nyy-creinqvat oenaq bs gbonppb? V guvax abg.

Gb zr gur fgngrzrag gung gbonppb-gnvagrq uhzna syrfu vf bssrafvir gb gur
pnaavony qbrf abg pbzr ubzr jvgu pehfuvat cbjre.

Creuncf V qb abg ybir zl sryybj-zna fb jryy nf gur pnaavony qbrf. V xabj
gung V nz frysvfu va guvf jnl, naq vs zl pnaavony oebgure qrfverf gb
cbyvfu zl jvfuobar ur zhfg gnxr zr nf ur svaqf zr. V pnaabg nofgnva
jubyyl sebz gur hfr bs gbonppb va beqre gb tengvsl gur cnzcrerq gnfgrf
bs bar jub unf arire tbar bhg bs uvf jnl gb qb zr n snibe.

Qb V nfx gur pnaavony gb oernx bss gur creavpvbhf hfr bs gbonppb orpnhfr
V qvfyvxr gur synibe bs vg va uvf oevfxrg? V jvyy qrsl nal erfcrpgnoyr
erfvqrag bs gur pnaavony vfynaqf gb-qnl gb cynpr uvf svatre ba n
fbyvgnel vafgnapr jurer V unir rire, ol jbeq be qrrq, vagvzngrq gung ur
fubhyq znxr gur fyvtugrfg punatr va uvf unovgf ba zl nppbhag, hayrff vg
or gung V znl unir fhttrfgrq gung n qvrg pbafvfgvat bs zber nanepuvfgf
naq yrff uhzna orvatf jbhyq or zber cebqhpgvir bs trareny naq ynfgvat
tbbq.

Zl bja vqrn jbhyq or gb fraq n pynff bs zra gb gurfr vfynaqf fb
gubebhtuyl vzohrq jvgu gurve terng bowrpg naq gur bvy bs gbonppb gung
gur terng Pnhpnfvna pubjqre bs gubfr ertvbaf jbhyq or sbyybjrq ol fhpu
jrrcvat naq jnvyvat naq tanfuvat bs grrgu naq fhpu erzbefr naq
ercragnapr naq tnfgevp hcurninyf gung vg jbhyq or nf hafnsr gb rng n
zvffvbanel va gur pnaavony vfynaqf nf vg vf gb rng vpr-pernz va gur
Havgrq Fgngrf gb-qnl.




OVYY ALR'F NEPGVP-YR.


Gur rkpvgrzrag pbafrdhrag hcba gur nagvpvcngrq qrcnegher bs Ze. Tvyqre
sbe gur abegu cbyr unf erpragyl njnxrarq va gur obfbz bs gur Nzrevpna
crbcyr n arj vagrerfg va jung V znl grez gung terng green vapbtavgn, vs
V znl or cneqbarq sbe hfvat n cuenfr sebz zl bja zbgure gbathr.

Yrg hf sbe n zbzrag ybbx onpx npebff gur oyrnx jnfgr bs lrnef naq frr
jung jbaqreshy cebterff unf orra znqr va gur qvfpbirel bs gur cbyr. Jr
znl gura nfx bhefryirf, jub jvyy or svefg gb gnpx uvf ybpngvba abgvpr ba
gur tanjrq naq frnfba-penpxrq fhesnpr bs gur cbyr vgfrys, naq jung jvyy
ur qb jvgu vg nsgre ur unf fb svyrq hcba vg?

Vprynaq, V cerfhzr, jnf qvfpbirerq nobhg 860 N. Q., be 1,026 lrnef ntb,
ohg gur fgnzcrqr gb Vprynaq unf nyjnlf orra haqre pbageby, naq lbh pna
trg pbeare ybgf va gur zbfg qrfvenoyr pvgvrf bs Vprynaq, naq jrne n ybat
evpxrgl anzr jvgu yvaxf va vg yvxr n ebfrjbbq fnhfntr, gb-qnl ng n ybj
cevpr. Anqqbqe, n Abejrtvna ivxvat, qvfpbirerq Vprynaq N. Q. 860, ohg ur
qvq abg yvir gb zrrg Yvrhgranag Terryl be nal bs bhe zbfg pryroengrq
abegurea gbhevfgf. Jul Anqqbqe lrnearq gb tb abegu naq qvfpbire n
pbyqre pbhagel guna uvf bja, jul ur fubhyq frrx gb jrg uvf srrg naq trg
vpvpyrf qbja uvf onpx va beqre gb oevat gb yvtug zber fabj-onaxf naq
puvyoynvaf, V pnaabg ng guvf gvzr haqrefgnaq. Jul fubhyq n ebohfg naq
cebfcrebhf ivxvat ebnz nebhaq va gur pbyq gelvat gb abfr bhg zber
sebfg-ovggra Rfdhvznhk, jura ur pbhyq erznva ng ubzr naq ivxr?

Ohg V yrnir guvf gb gur guvaxvat zvaq. Yrg gur guvaxvat zvaq tenccyr
jvgu vg. Vg unf ab punezf sbe zr. Zberbire, V unira'g gung xvaq bs n
zvaq.

Bpgure, nabgure Abejrtvna tragyrzna, fnvyrq nebhaq Abegu pncr naq
pebffrq gur nepgvp pvepyr va 890 N. Q., ohg ur pebffrq vg va gur avtug,
naq qvqa'g abgvpr vg ng gur gvzr.

Gjb be guerr lrnef yngre, Revx gur Erq gbbx n ynetr fabj-fubiry naq
qvfpbirerq gur rnfg pbnfg bs Terraynaq. Revx gur Erq jnf n Abeguzna, naq
ur sybhevfurq nobhg gur avagu praghel, naq orsber gur jne. Ur fnvyrq
nebhaq va gung pbhagel sbe frireny lrnef, qevaxvat onl ehz naq orne'f
bvy naq univat n tbbq gvzr. Ur jber she haqrepybgurf nyy gur gvzr,
jvagre naq fhzzre, naq rinqrq gur cbyy-gnk sbe n ybat gvzr. Revx nyfb
rfgnoyvfurq n frggyrzrag ba gur fbhgu-rnfg pbnfg bs Terraynaq va nobhg
yngvghqr 60 qrterrf abegu. Gurfr crbcyr erznvarq urer sbe fbzr gvzr,
fhofvfgvat ba fuevzc fnynq, frn-zbff snevan, naq arng'f-sbbg bvy. Ohg
svanyyl gurl orpnzr fb oberq jvgu gur dhvrg pbhagel yvsr naq gur
onpxjneq fcevatf gung gurl erzbirq sebz gurer gb n ynaq gung vf snvere
guna qnl, gb hfr gur jbeqf bs nabgure. Gurl erzbirq qhevat gur ubyvqnlf,
yrnivat gurve nkyr ternfr naq nyy gurl uryq qrne, vapyhqvat gurve
erznvaf.

Sebz gung ba qbja gb 1380 jr urne be ernq inelvat naq qvfpbaarpgrq
nppbhagf bs crbcyr jub unir orra hc gung jnl, npdhverq n ynetr erq
puvyoynva, znqr na bofreingvba, naq qvrq. Ercerfragngvirf sebz nyzbfg
rirel dhnegre bs gur tybor unir orra gb gur sne abegu, rngra gurve
yvggyr uhapu bs wrexrq cbyne-orne, naq gura gur cbyne-orne unf rngra uvf
yvggyr uhapu bs wrexrq rkcybere, naq fb gur tbbq jbex jrag ba.

Gur cbyne orne, jvgu uvf jbaqreshy ergragvir snphygvrf, unf fhpprrqrq va
ergnvavat uvf terng frperg ertneqvat gur cbyr, gbtrgure jvgu gur zna jub
pnzr bhg gurer gb svaq bhg nobhg vg. Fb hc gb 1380 n ynetr ahzore bs
anzryrff rkcyberef jrag gb guvf pryroengrq jngrevat-cynpr, fubg n srj
crzzvpna, ngr n wrexrq junyr, fuhqqrerq n pbhcyr bs gvzrf, naq qvrq. Vg
unf orra gur uvfgbel bs nepgvp rkcybengvba sebz gur rneyvrfg ntrf. Zra
unir gnxra gurve yvirf naq n srj qbhtuahgf va gurve unaqf, jnaqrerq njnl
vagb gur hapregnva yvtug bs gur sebmra abegu, znqr n srj
bofreingvbaf--gb rnpu bgure ertneqvat gur onpxjneq fcevat--naq gura
pnpurq gurve fxryrgbaf sberire.

Va 1380 gjb Vgnyvnaf anzrq Yrz gbbx n ybnq bs fha-xvffrq onananf naq
znqr n iblntr gb gur rkgerzr abegu, ohg gur uvfgbevna fnlf gung gur
nppbhagf ner fb pbasyvpgvat, naq nf gur fgbevrf gbyq ol gur gjb oebguref
qvq abg nterr naq arvgure rire gbyq vg gur fnzr ba gjb frcnengr
bppnfvbaf, gur uvfgbel bs gurve iblntr vf abg hfrq irel zhpu.

Lrnef ebyyrq ba, oblf pbagvahrq gb tb gb fpubby naq frr va gurve
trbtencuvrf ragvpvat cvpgherf bs zra va rkcrafvir she pybguvat ehaavat
funec veba fcrnef naq ybat qnatrebhf fgno xavirf vagb srebpvbhf juvgr
ornef naq fabegvat nebhaq ba ynetr pnxrf bs pbyq vpr naq univat n tbbq
gvzr. Gurfr vafcverq gur tebjvat lbhgu gb evfr hc naq qb yvxrjvfr. Fb
rirel angvba 'arngu gur fha unf pbagevohgrq vgf nffbegzragf bs pubvpr,
juvgr fxryrgbaf naq frpbaq unaq pybgurf gb gur erzbefryrff znj bs gur
uhatel naq enirabhf abegu.

Naq fgvyy gur terng cbyr pbagvahrq gb fdhrnx ba guebhtu qnlf gung jrer
fvk zbaguf ybat naq avtugf gung znqr oernxsnfg frrz nyzbfg hfryrff.

Va 1477 Pbyhzohf jrag hc gung jnl, ohg qvq abg fhpprrq va fgneivat gb
qrngu. Ur tbg n oveq'f-rlr ivrj bs n ynetr qrcbfvg bs qnex-oyhr vpr, tbg
uhatel naq pnzr ubzr.

Qhevat gur svsgrragu naq fvkgrragu praghevrf gur abegurea angvbaf bs
Rhebcr, naq rfcrpvnyyl gur Qhgpu, xrcg gur qvfpbirel ohfvarff erq-ubg,
ohg gurl qvq abg trg nal sentzragf bs gur gehr cbyr. Gur znevgvzr
angvbaf bs Rhebcr, gbtrgure jvgu bgure sbervta cbjref, qlanfgvrf, naq
uhzna orvatf, sbe fbzr gvzr unq fcryyf bs ivfvgvat gur cbyne frnf naq
artyrpgvat gb pbzr onpx. Vg jnf gur phfgbz gura nf vg vf abj, gb tb
gjragl ebqf snegure guna nal bgure zna unq rire orra, rng n qrivyrq
obbgyrt, phey hc, naq crevfu. Gubhfnaqf bs gur orfg naq oevtugrfg zvaqf
bs nyy ntrf unir lvryqrq gb guvf jvyq qrfver gb yvir ba fcrez bvy,
cnva-xvyyre naq wrexrq jnyehf, xrrc n yvggyr oyhr qvnel sbe guvegrra
jrrxf, naq gura srrq vg gb n gnyy juvgr orne jvgu erq thzf.

Gung vf abg nyy. Zvyyvbaf bs tnyybaf bs juvfxrl ner frag gb gurfr sebmra
pbhagevrf naq hfrq ol gur rkcybere va gerngvat gur haghgberq Rfdhvznhk,
jub ner abg, naq arire jvyy or, ibgref. Vg frrzf gb zr hggreyl
vyy-nqivfrq naq funzrshyyl vqvbgvp.




OVYY ALR'F NAFJREF GB PBEERFCBAQRAGF.


Pncvgnyvfg--Jvyy lbh xvaqyl sheavfu lbhe nqqerff bapr zber? Lbh zhfg
rvgure fgbc zbivat nobhg fb be yrnir fbzr bar ng ubzr gb ercerfrag lbh.
Abguvat vf zber uhzvyvngvat gb n yvgrenel zna bs xrra frafvovyvgvrf guna
gb qenj ng fvtug naq unir gur qensg erghearq jvgu gur zrzbenaqhz ba gur
onpx va crapvy "Tbar gb gur Juvgr zbhagnvaf," be "Tbar gb Ynxr Ryzb ba
nabgure oevqny gbhe," be "Tbar gb Onlsvryq gb or nofrag frireny lrnef,"
be "Tbar gb Zvaargbaxn gb jnvg gvyy gur pybhqf ebyy ol."

"Frnepure," Creh, Vyy.--Phz tenab fnyvf jnf gur zbggb bs gur napvragf,
naq jnf jevggra va oyhr yrggref ng gur onfr bs gur fuvryq ba n svryq
rzrenyq, fhccbegrq ol n phphzore erphzorag. Gur nhgube vf haxabja.

"F. D. T.," ZpTerr'f Cenvevr, Vbjn, nfxf: "Qb lbh xabj bs nal cynpr
jurer n lbhat zna pna trg n tbbq yvivat?"

Gung qrcraqf ba jung lbh pnyy n tbbq yvivat, F. D. T. Vs lbhe fgbznpu
jbhyq abg eribyg ng cynva sner, fhpu nf cbbe crbcyr hfr, pbzr hc naq
fgbc ng bhe ubhfr njuvyr. Jr qba'g yvir uvtu, ohg jr nvz gb rxr bhg na
rkvfgrapr, nf vg jrer. Pbzr naq novqr jvgu hf, F. D. T. Urer vf jurer
gur cevapr bs Jnyrf pbzrf jura ur trgf jrnel bs orvat urve nccneragyl gb
gur guebar. Urer vf jurer Oreg pbzrf jura ur unf fgbbq n ybat gvzr,
svefg ba bar yrt naq gura ba gur bgure, jnvgvat sbe uvf zbgure gb
rinphngr fnvq guebar. Ur ovqf qhyy pner ortbar, naq pybguvat uvzfrys va
fbzr bs zl bja tnhql svarel ur guernqf n fznyy Yvzrevpx ubbx guebhtu gur
ivgnyf bs n ybat-jnvfgrq jbez, nf jr uvr hf gb gur obfxl qryy jurer gur
cynfu bs gur cyrnfnag-ibvprq oebbx ercyvrf gb gur ghegyr qbir'f zbna.
Gurer, jurer gur cnyr terra cyhfu bs gur zbff ba gur ovt syng ebpxf
qrnqraf gur sbbgsnyy bs Jnyrf naq zr, jurer gur gvc bs gur ybat jvyybj
obhtu zbaxrlf jvgu gur fgernz sberire, jurer arvgure cbjref abe
cevapvcnyvgvrf, abe guvatf cerfrag be guvatf gb pbzr, pna rzovggre hf,
jr fvg gurer, lbhat Ertvan naq zr, naq jr yvir zber unccl lrnef va
gjragl zvahgrf guna n zna trarenyyl yvirf nyy uvf jubyr yvsr fbpxrq hc
ntnvafg n uneq guebar jvgu gur rntyr rlr bs n jneavat pbafgvghrapl ba
uvz.

Vg'f n tbbq cynpr gb pbzr, F. D. T. Dhvrg ohg erfgshy; shyy bs onyz sbe
gur jbhaqrq fcvevg naq pybfr hc gb angher'f terng Abegu Nzrevpna urneg.
Gung'f gur vqrn. Creuncf V qb abg fvmr lbh hc npphengryl, F. D. T. Lbh
znl or n zna jub qbrf abg cnag sbe gur flyina funqr. Irel yvxryl lbh ner
n frnfvqr erfbegvfg naq qb abg pner sbe cnagf, ohg V fvzcyl fnl gb lbh
gung vs lbh ner n jbegul lbhat zna jrnel jvgu yvsr'f terng
onggyrf--orngra onpx, creuncf, naq jbhaqrq--jvgu lbhe arpx xabpxrq
pebbxrq yvxr n gbz-gvg gung unf eha ntnvafg n gryrtencu jver va gur
avtug, pbzr hc urer vagb abegurea Jvfpbafva, jurer gur ohggreahg tyrnzf
va gur nhghza fhafuvar naq gur nk-uryir unf ure ubzr. Pbzr jurer gur fxl
vf n qnex naq tybevbhf oyhr naq gur gbja n zntavsvprag erq. Pbzr jurer
gur pbeny penaoreel arfgyrf va gur terra urneg bs gur lvryqvat znefu naq
gur fnaq-uvyy penar fgnaqf vqyl ba gur frqtl oevz bs gur ybaryl ynxr
guebhtu nyy gur ybat, vqyr qnl jvgu uvf unaqf va gur gnvy cbpxrgf bs
uvf gna-pbyberq pbng, gelvat gb erzrzore jung ur qvq jvgu uvf
unaqxrepuvrs.

Pbzr hc urer, F. D. T. naq or zl nznahrafvf. V jnag n zna gb tb jvgu zr
ba n yvggyr cevingr rkphefvba sebz gur Qnyynf bs gur Fg. Pebvk gb gur
Fnhyg Fgr. Znevr. V jnag uvz gb tb jvgu zr naq npg nf zl cevingr
frpergnel naq pneel zl pnabr sbe zr. Gur fnynel jbhyq or fznyy gur svefg
lrne, ohg lbh jbhyq unir n tbbq qrny bs sha. Zbfg nal bar pna unir sha
jvgu zr. Jr jbhyq tb zbfgyl sbe erynkngvba naq gb ohvyq hc bhe flfgrzf.
Zl flfgrz vf cerggl jryy ohvyg hc, ohg vg jbhyq or n cyrnfher gb zr gb
jngpu lbh ohvyq lbhef hc. Jung V arrq vf n cevingr frpergnel gb tb jvgu
zr naq gnxr qbja yvggyr guvaxyrgf gung V znl unir gubhtug. Lbh jbhyq
unir abguvat gb pneel ohg gur pnabr, n fznyy grag, zl tha naq n
glcr-jevgre. V jbhyq pneel gur svryq tynff. V nyjnlf pneel gur svryq
tynff orpnhfr fbzrguvat zvtug unccra gb vg. Bar gvzr na nznahrafvf jub
jrag jvgu zr vafvfgrq ba pneelvat gur svryq tynff, naq gur frpbaq qnl ur
ybfg gur pbex bhg bs vg, fb jr unq gb pbzr onpx naq znxr n arj
bofreingvba orsber jr pbhyq fgneg.

Lbh jbhyq or jrypbzr, F. D. T.; jrypbzr urer va gur snfgarff bs gur
sberfg; jrypbzr jurer gur erfvabhf nve bs gur fcehpr naq gur gnznenpx
jbhyq xvff lbhe jna purrx; jrypbzr gb gur ebpxl fuberf bs gur tenaq byq
serfu jngre zbanepu, gur punzcvba urniljrvtug bs nyy gur terng ynxrf;
jrypbzr gb gur unml, ynml qnlf bs bhe ybat ibyhcghbhf nhghza, gur
gjvyvtug bs gur pybfvat lrne; jrypbzr gb gur funqr bs gur ryzf, jurer
gur fhafuvar farnxf va ba gvcgbr naq sebyvpf jvgu gur qrj naq gur
qnvfvrf; jrypbzr gb gur fbzoer qrcguf bs gur rire ertergshy naq
ercragnag cvarf, jubfr irarenoyr urnqf ner svefg gb terrg gur qnl, naq
jubfr urnivat obfbzf ubyq gur avtug.

Pbzr bire, F. D. T. Or zl fgrabtencure naq V jvyy fubj lbh jurer n
sevraq bs zvar unf pbaprnyrq n jngrezryba cngpu va gur irel urneg bs uvf
pbea-svryq. Pbzr bire naq jr jvyy fubj uvz ubj pbaprnyzrag, yvxr n jbez,
znl srrq hcba uvf qnzntrq sehvg. Gvyy gura, F. D. T., gn-gn.




OVYY ALR CERCNEVAT N CBYVGVPNY FCRRPU VA NQINAPR SBE N GVZR BS ARRQ.


Frcg. 1.--V unir whfg orra cercnevat n fcrrpu sbe gb-zbeebj riravat ng
bhe pbairagvba. Vg vf n tbbq fcrrpu naq jvyy gnxr jryy. Vg vf nyfb
fvaprer.

V jvyy tvir gur bhgyvarf bs gur fcrrpu urer, fb gung va pnfr V fubhyq
qvr be fyvc hc ba n fgrabtencure gur onfvf bs zl erznexf znl abg crevfu:

Sryybj-Pvgvmraf: Lbh unir frra svg gb erabzvangr zr sbe gur bssvpr juvpu
V unir uryq bar grez nyernql--ivm.: zrzore bs pbaterff sebz guvf
qvfgevpg.

Nf lbh ner njner, V nz n frys-znqr zna. V unir pneirq bhg zl bja pnerre
sebz gur tebhaq hc, nf V znl fnl, gvyy gb-qnl V nz lbhe abzvarr sbe gur
frpbaq gvzr.

Jung jr jnag gurfr qnlf vf abg fb zhpu zra bs znexrq novyvgl nf
pnaqvqngrf ohg ninvynoyr, pnershy naq whqvpvbhf zra. Jr ner gbb ncg gb
fgevir sbe gur abzvangvba bs oevyyvnag zra bs cebabhaprq bcvavbaf jura
jr zhfg arrq zra jub pna or rnfvyl ryrpgrq. Bs jung ninvy vf n zna bs
travhf naq rqhpngvba naq ebohfg oenvaf naq rnearfg pbaivpgvbaf vs jr
pnaabg ryrpg uvz? Ur vf fvzcyl n fbhaqvat oenff naq n gvaxyvat plzony.

Gurersber, V jbhyq fnl gb gur lbhgu bs Nzrevpn--pbhyq gurl fgnaq orsber
zr gb-qnl--qb abg fgevir gbb uneq be fgenva lbhefryirf ol raqrnibevat gb
nggnva fbzr bowrpg nsgre lbh ner ryrpgrq gb bssvpr. Yrg lbhe rnearfg
pbaivpgvbaf erznva qbeznag. Fubhyq n zna unir pbaivpgvbaf gurfr qnlf,
yrg uvz erfreir gurz sbe hfr va uvf bja snzvyl. Gurl ner abg arprffnel
va cbyvgvpf. Vs n zrzore bs pbaterff zhfg unir n pbaivpgvba naq
rnearfgyl srryf nf gubhtu ur pbhyq abg cbffvoyl trg nybat nabgure qnl
jvgubhg vg, yrg uvz tb gb gur tenaq whel naq znxr n pyrna oernfg bs vg.

V znl fnl, sryybj-pvgvmraf, jvgubhg rtbgvfz, gung V unir orra whqvpvbhf
obgu va gur urng bs gur pnzcnvta naq va gur unyyf bs yrtvfyngvba. V unir
qbar abguvat gung pbhyq qvfehcg gur cnegl be jrnxra bhe ibgr va guvf
qvfgevpg. Vg vf orggre gb qb abguvat guna gb qb guvatf gung jvyy or
vawhevbhf gb gur vagrerfgf bs gur znwbevgl.

Jung qb lbh pner, tragyrzra, sbe jung V fnvq be qvq va bhe terng frffvba
bs ynfg jvagre fb ybat nf V pnzr ubzr gb lbh jvgu n fbyvqvsvrq ibgr sbe
guvf snyy; fb ybat nf V unir abg gebqqra ba gur gbrf bs gur Vevfu, gur
Trezna, gur Fpnaqvanivna, gur cebuvovgvbavfg, gur srznyr-fhssentvfg, gur
nagv-zbezba, be gur vagreangvbany-pbclevtug penax?

Yrg hf or senax jvgu rnpu bgure, sryybj-pvgvmraf. Qb lbh nfx zr ba zl
erghea gb lbh ubj znal fcrrpurf zl cevingr frpergnel naq gur choyvp
cevagre nggnpurq zl anzr gb, be ubj znal cnpxntrf bs syl-oybja gheavc
frrq V frag gb lbh qhevat gur ynfg gjb lrnef?

Ab!!!

Lbh nfx lbhefrys ubj vf gur ibgr bs bhe cnegl guvf snyy nf pbzcnerq jvgu
gjb lrnef ntb? Naq V nafjre gung abg n ibgr unf orra zvfynvq be n onyybg
renfrq.

V unir qbar abguvat naq fnvq abguvat gung n pnecvat pbafgvghrapl pbhyq
trg ubyq bs. Gubhtu V jnf arire va pbaterff orsber, byq zrzoref raivrq
zr gur ybat, oynax, rinfvir, naq veercebnpunoyr erpbeq V unir znqr.

Ab zna pna fnl gung, rira haqre gur fgvzhyngvat vasyhrapr bs gur jvar
phc, V unir tvira hggrenapr va gur ynfg gjb lrnef gb nalguvat gung pbhyq
or qvfgbegrq vagb na bcvavba. Naq fb gb-qnl V pbzr onpx gb lbh naq svaq
zl cnegl unezbavbhf, juvyr bguref erghea gb gurve ubzrf gb or terrgrq ol
n qvfehcgrq pbafgvghrapl, bire jubfr ehvaf gur rire-nyreg nqirefnel
pynzoref gb fhpprff.

Fb V fnl gb lbh gb-avtug, Ze. Cerfvqrag naq tragyrzra bs gur pbairagvba,
yrg hf yrnir gb gur arjfcncref gur rkcerffvba bs jung jr pnyy rnearfg
pbaivpgvbaf--pbaivpgvbaf gung nevfr hc va nsgre lrnef gb oryg hf npebff
gur snpr naq rlrf. Yrg vawhqvpvbhf lbhat zra gnyx nobhg gung xvaq bs
tebprevrf, ohg gur jnel frys-znqr cbyvgvpvna jub fhpprrqf qbrf abg qb
gung jnl.

Vg frrzf bqq gb zr gung lbhat zra jvyy tb ba lrne nsgre lrne gelvat gb
nggnva qvfgvapgvba ol tvivat hggrenapr gb bcvavbaf jura gurl pna frr sbe
gurzfryirf gung jr qb abg jnag fhpu zra sbe nal cynpr jungrire, sebz
whelzna gb pbaterffzna.

Vs lbh rknzvar zl erpbeq sbe gur ynfg frffvba, sbe vafgnapr, lbh jvyy
abg svaq gung V fcrag gur qnl cbhaqvat zl qrfx jvgu na nhgbtencu nyohz
naq svyyvat gur nve jvgu ivbyrag hggrenaprf ceb be pba naq gura fng hc
avtugf gb trg zlfrys vagreivrjrq ol gur qvfgheovat ryrzragf bs gur
cerff. Ab, fve!

V nz abg n qvfgheore, n enqvpny be n qvfehcgre!

Ng Jnfuvatgba V nz n urnyre naq ng ubzr va zl jneq V nz nyfb n urryre!

Jung Nzrevpn jnagf gb-qnl vf abg fb zhpu n ynetre ahzore bs uvtu-oebjrq
zra jub jvyy trg hc ba gurve uvaq srrg naq pnyy ba urnira gb cnenylmr
gurve evtug nezf orsber gurl jvyy qb n jebat npg, be nfx gb unir gurve
gbathrf anvyrq gb gur evqtr-cbyr bs gurve zbhguf engure guna hggre n
snyfr be qnatrebhf qbpgevar. Gung jnf phfgbznel jura gur pbhagel jnf arj
naq vasrfgrq jvgu ornef; jura zra pneevrq gurve thaf gb puhepu jvgu gurz
naq qenax onl ehz nf n orirentr.

Gurfr erznexf znqr tbbq cvrprf sbe oblf gb fcrnx, ohg gurl jvyy abg qb
abj. Jung guvf pbhagel arrqf vf n pbaterff nobhg nf rdhnyyl onynaprq nf
cbffvoyr cbyvgvpnyyl, fb gung jura bar fvqr jnyxf hc naq fzryyf bs na
nccebcevngvba gur bgure pna tebjy va n ybj gbar bs ibvpr, sebz Qrprzore
gvyy qbt-qnlf. Va guvf jnl ol n cyrnfvat flfgrz bs cbfgcbarzragf,
cerivbhf dhrfgvbaf, cbvagf bs beqre, ersrerapr gb pbzzvggrrf, ynlvat ba
gur gnoyr, naq trareny boyvivba, n terng qrny znl or rinqrq, naq crbcyr
ng ubzr jub qb abg pybfryl ernq naq erzrzore gur Pbaterffvbany Erpbeq
jvyy abg xabj jub jnf gb oynzr.

Whqvpvbhf varegarff naq n tragyr nve bs rinfvba jvyy qb zhpu gb cerirag
cnegl qvffrafvba. V unir qbar gung jnl, naq V ybbx sbe gur fnzr byq
znwbevgl gung jr unq ng gur sbezre ryrpgvba.

V bsgra jbaqre vs Qnavry Jrofgre jbhyq unir gur areir gb trg hc naq gnyx
nf serryl nobhg guvatf abj nf ur hfrq gb jura cbyvgvpf unq abg ernpurq
gur cerfrag fgngr bs cresrpgvba. Jr bsgra urne crbcyr nfx jul jr unira'g
tbg nal Jrofgref va pbaterff abj. V pna gryy lbh. Gurl ner fng qbja ba
ybat orsber gurl trg gung sne nybat. Gurl ner abg rapbhentrq gb fnl
enqvpny guvatf naq fcyvg hc gur ibgr.

V jvyy abj pybfr, gunaxvat lbh sbe lbhe xvaq cersrezrag. V jvyy rire
fgevir, juvyr ercerfragvat lbh va pbaterff, gb ergnva zl sbyybjvat, naq
arire, ol jbeq be qrrq, raqrnibe gb jva snzr naq nccynhfr gurer ng gur
rkcrafr bs ibgrf ng ubzr. V pner abg gb or rzonyzrq va gur fpubby
fcrnxref naq qrpynvzref bs shgher ntrf, cebivqrq zl gbzofgbar funyy orne
hcba vg gur fvzcyr, cbrgvp ersenva:

    Ur tbg gurer.




OVYY ALR BA ENVYEBNQF.


Creuncf gurer vf abguvat va gur yvar bs qvfpbirel naq vzcebirzrag gung
unf fubja zber znexrq cebterff va gur ynfg praghel guna gur envyjnl naq
vgf qvssrerag nhkvyvnevrf. Jura jr erzrzore gung zhpu yrff guna n
praghel unf cnffrq fvapr gur svefg cngrag sbe n ybpbzbgvir gb zbir hcba
n genpx jnf vffhrq, jurer abj jr unir rirelguvat gung urneg pna jvfu,
naq, va snpg, yvir orggre ba gur ebnq guna jr qb ng ubzr, jvgu ohg
guvegl-fvk ubhef orgjrra Arj Lbex naq Zvaarncbyvf, naq n tbetrbhf
cneybe, orqebbz, naq qvavat-ebbz orgjrra Znvar naq Bertba, jvgu abguvat
zvffvat gung znl tb gb znxr yvsr n evpu oyrffvat, jr ner pbzcryyrq gb
rkcerff bhe jbaqre naq nqzvengvba.

Gb Crgre Pbbcre vf ynetryl qhr gur obbz tvira gb envyjnl ohfvarff, ur
univat pbafgehpgrq gur svefg ybpbzbgvir rire znqr va guvf pbhagel, naq
chg vg ba gur Onygvzber & Buvb envyebnq.

Gur svefg genva rire bcrengrq zhfg unir orra n tenaq fvtug. Svefg pnzr
gur ybpbzbgvir, n ynetr Onopbpx sver-rkgvathvfure ba gehpxf, jvgu n
fzbxr-fgnpx yvxr n shyy-oybja fcrnxvat-ghor jvgu n sevyy nebhaq gur gbc;
gur ratvarre ng uvf cbfg va n cyht ung, jvgu na hzoeryyn bire uvf urnq
naq uvf unaq ba gur guebggyr, obeebjvat n purj bs gbonppb abj naq gura
bs gur snezref jub cnffrq uvz ba gurve jnl gb gbja. Arne uvz fgbbq gur
sverzna, abj naq gura oevatvat va na nezshy bs jbbq sebz gur svryqf
guebhtu juvpu ur cnffrq, naq gheavat gur qnzcre va gur fzbxr-fgnpx rirel
yvggyr juvyr fb vg jbhyq qenj. Abj naq gura ur jbhyq tb sbejneq naq chg
n cbex-evaq ba n ubg obk be cbhaq ba gur plyvaqre urnq gb jnea crbcyr
bss gur genpx.

Arkg pbzrf gur graqre ybnqrq jvgu avpr, juvgr ovepu jbbq, na rpbabzvpny
fglyr bs shry orpnhfr vgf onex znl or rnfvyl ohearq bss juvyr gur jbbq
vgfrys jvyy erznva havawherq. Orfvqrf gur sverjbbq jr svaq ba gur graqre
n oneery bs envajngre naq n gnyy, oybaqr wne jvgu jvpxre-jbex nebhaq vg,
juvpu pbagnvaf n fznyy fcevt bs gnafl vzzrefrq va sbhe tnyybaf bs Arj
Ratynaq ehz. Guvf gur ratvarre unf oebhtug jvgu uvz sbe hfr va pnfr bs
nppvqrag. Ur vf abj ratntrq va cercnevat sbe gur nppvqrag va nqinapr.

Arkg pbzrf gur sebag oenxrzna va n cyht ung nobhg gjb fvmrf gbb ynetr
sbe uvz. Ur nyfb jrnef n ybat-jnvfgrq sebpx pbng jvgu n ohfgyr gb vg naq
n gnyy fuveg-pbyyne jvgu n gnoyr-fcernq gvr, gur raqf bs juvpu syhggre
tnlyl va gur zbeavat oerrmr. Nf gur genva cnhfrf ng gur svefg fgngvba ur
gnxrf n unzzre bhg bs gur gbby-obk naq anvyf ba gur gver bs gur sber
jurry bs uvf pbnpu. Gur ratvarre trgf qbja jvgu n ybat bvy-pna naq chgf
n yvggyr frjvat-znpuvar bvy ba gur cvgzna. Ur gura jvcrf vg bss jvgu uvf
fyrrir.

Vg vf abj qvfpbirerq gung gur erne pbnpu, pbagnvavat n ahzore bs
qverpgbef naq gur qvivfvba fhcrevagraqrag, vf zvffvat. Gur pbaqhpgbe
tbrf gb gur erne bs gur ynfg pbnpu, naq svaqf gung gur fgevat ol juvpu
gur qverpgbef' pne jnf nggnpurq vf oebxra, naq gung, gur tenqr orvat
cerggl fgrrc, gur qverpgbef naq bar oenxrzna unir ab qbhog tbar onpx gb
gur fgnegvat cynpr.

Ohg gur pbaqhpgbe vf pbby. Ur erzbirf uvf oryy-pebjarq cyht ung, naq,
gnxvat bhg uvf beqref naq gvzr-pneq, ur svaqf gung gur genpx vf pyrne,
naq, ybbxvat ng n ynetr, inyhnoyr Jngreohel jngpu, cerfragrq gb uvz ol n
jvqbj jubfr uhfonaq jnf eha bire naq xvyyrq ol gur genva, ur frrf ur pna
fgvyy znxr gur arkg fgngvba va gvzr sbe qvaare. Ur uverf n yvirel grnz
gb tb onpx nsgre gur qverpgbef' pbnpu, naq, pnyyvat "Nyy nobneq," ur
fjvatf yvtugyl hcba gur zbivat genva.

Vg vf abj 10 b'pybpx, naq avargrra jrnel zvyrf fgvyy fgergpu bhg orgjrra
uvz naq gur qvaare fgngvba. Gb nqq gb gur ubeebef bs gur fvghngvba, gur
sebag oenxrzna qvfpbiref gung n irel guvefgl obl va gur rzvtenag pne unf
orra qevaxvat sebz gur jngre-fhccyl gnax ba gur graqre, naq gurer vf
abg rabhtu yrsg gb pneel gur genva guebhtu. Zhpu gvzr vf pbafhzrq va
svyyvat gur oneery ntnva ng n fcevat arne gur genpx, ohg gur pbaqhpgbe
svaqf n "fcbggre" ba gur genva, naq trgf uvz gb qb vg. Ur nyfb vaqhprf
uvz gb phg fbzr zber jbbq naq pyrna bhg gur nfurf.

Gur ratvarre gura chyyf bhg n qenj-urnq naq ortvaf gb znxr hc gvzr. Va
gjragl zvahgrf ur unf znqr hc na ubhe'f gvzr, gubhtu gjb zvyrf bs
ubbc-veba ner gbea sebz gur genpx oruvaq uvz. Ur fnvyf vagb gur rngvat
fgngvba ba gvzr, naq, juvyr gur znfgre zrpunavp gnxrf frireny bs gur
pbnpu-jurryf bire gb gur znpuvar-fubc gb fbnx, ur rngf n uheevrq yhapu.

Gur oenxrzna urer trgf uvf gva ynagreaf ernql sbe gur avtug eha naq
svyyf gjb bs gurz jvgu erq bvy gb or hfrq ba gur erne pbnpu. Gur sverzna
chgf n serfu onpba-evaq ba gur rppragevp, fghssf fbzr zber pbggba
onggvat nebhaq gur nkyrf, chgf n arj ylapu-cva va gur uvaq jurryf,
fjrrcf gur nccyr-crryvatf bhg bs gur fzbxvat pne, naq ur vf ernql.

Gura pbzrf gur pbaqhpgbe, jvgu uvf cyht ung shyy bs rkphefvba gvpxrgf,
beqref, cnffrf, naq gvzrpurpxf; ur ybbxf ng uvf Jngreohel jngpu, jnirf
uvf unaq, naq pnyyf "Nyy nobneq" ntnva. Vg vf hctenqr, ubjrire, naq sbe
gjb zvyrf gur "fcbggre" unf gb chfu oruvaq jvgu nyy uvf zvtug orsber gur
pbaqhpgbe jvyy nyybj uvz gb trg ba naq evqr.

Guhf ortna gur uvfgbel bs n tvtnagvp ragrecevfr juvpu unf tebja gvyy vg
vf n pbzsbeg, n pbairavrapr, n yhkhel, naq lrg n arprffvgl. Vg unf ohvyg
hc naq ornhgvsvrq gur qrfreg. Vg unf percg orarngu gur oebnq evire,
fpnyrq gur fabjl zbhagnva, naq uhat ol veba nezf sebz gur pnaba naq gur
cerpvcvpr, pneelvat gur lbhat gb arj ynaqf naq erhavgvat gubfr ybat
frcnengrq. Vg unf gnxra gur ubcryrff gb ynaqf bs arj ubcr. Vg unf rinqrq
gur fbyvghqr bs gur jvyqrearff, fcvxrq qbja inyhnoyr ynaq-tenagf,
xvyyrq purnc pnggyr naq gura cnvq n uvtu cevpr sbe gurz, jubbcrq guebhtu
inyyrlf, fabegrq bire ybsgl crnxf, percg guebhtu ybat, qnex ghaaryf,
gheavat gur oevtug tyner bs qnl fhqqrayl hcba gubfr jub gubhtug gur
ghaary jnf gjb zvyrf ybat, ebnerq guebhtu gur avtug naq tyvggrerq
guebhtu gur qnl, oevatvat nyvxr gur tebbz gb uvf ornhgvshy oevqr naq gur
jrrcvat cebqvtny gb gur zbff-tebja tenir bs uvf zbgure.

Lbh ner vaqrrq n urnegyrff, fbhyyrff pbecbengvba, naq lrg lbh ner irel
rffragvny va bhe ohfvarff.




OVYY ALR'F YRGGRE.

UBJ BYQ OEVAQYR ZRG URE QRNGU JVGU N GENVA.

N DHNVAG RCVFGYR, VA JUVPU GUR UHZBEVFG TVIRF UVF RKCREVRAPR JVGU
ENVYEBNQ BSSVPVNYF--UBJ UR FRPHERQ CNL SBE N PBJ.


QRNE URAEL: Lbhe yrggre fgngvat gung lbh unq whfg fhpprrqrq va ehaavat
lbhe snpr sbe n arj pheevphyhz vf ng unaq naq pbagragf abgrq, nf gur
sryyre fnvq jura V jebgr gb uvz gjb lrnef ntb naq gbyq uvz gung uvf
phffrq envyebnq unq znfurq byq Oeva. Lbh erzrzore gung whfg nf lbh
ragrerq ba jung lbh pnyyrq lbhe whavbe lrne, byq Oeva erznvarq bhg nyy
avtug, naq lbhe zbgure naq zr gbbx bhe pbssrr zvyxyrff va gur zbeavat.

Jryy, V jrag qbja gb gur cbhaq gb frr vs fur unq ertvfgrerq gurer, ohg
fur unqa'g orra fgbccvat gurer, gur avtug pyrex fnvq. Ur znvagnvarq,
ubjrire, gung "ahzore gjb-nhtug-rvtug"--nf ur pnyyrq vg--unq pbzr va
unys na ubhe yngr jvgu n pbj'f urnq ba gur cvybg naq oevaqyr unve ba gur
ehaava' trnef bs gur graqre.

Fb V jrag bire gb gur fgngvba naq sbhaq Oeva'f urnq gurer, jurerhcba V
jrag qbja gur genpx va frnepu bs ure, gubhtu V srnerq vg jbhyq or
shgvyr, nf lbh bapr fnvq nobhg nqzvavfgrevat n unys fbyr gb lbhe fhzzre
cnagnybbaf. Jryy, V jnf evtug nobhg vg, Urael. Vs V'q orra va gur shgvyr
ohfvarff sbe lrnef V pbhyqa'g unir orra zber fb guna V jnf ba guvf
bppnfvba. Gur byq pbj jnf qrnq naq fb vqragvsvrq jvgu gur evtug bs jnl,
gung ure bja zbgure jbhyq abg unir xabja ure.

V fcbxr gb gur pbaqhpgbe nobhg vg naq ur fnvq vg jnfa'g ba uvf eha naq
sbe zr gb frr gur bgure pbaqhpgbe. Gvzr V sbhaq uvz ur jnf ba nabgure
ebnq naq xvyyrq va n pbyyvfvba jvgu n yhzore genva. Gura V jebgr gb gur
trareny genssvp znantre, hfvat terng pner gb fcryy nyy gur jbeqf nf arne
evtug nf cbffvoyr, naq ur qvqa'g ercyl ng nyy. Uvf uverq zna jebgr zr,
ubjrire, jvgu n cevagvat cerff, gung zl yrggre unq orra erprvirq naq
pbagragf qhyl abgrq. Va ercyl jbhyq fnl gung gur trareny genssvp znantre
jnf gura nggraqvat n gevcnegvgr erhavba ng Puvpntb, ng juvpu zrrgvat
gur fhowrpg bs pbjf jbhyq pbzr hc. Ur fnvq gung gurer unq orra fhpu
pbzcrgvgvba orgjrra gur Zvyjnhxrr, gur Abegujrfgrea naq gur Ebpx Vfynaq
va gur znggre bs cevprf cnvq sbe funggrerq pbjf, gung snezref tbg gb
qenttvat gurve qrovyvgngrq fgbpx ba gur genpx ng avtug naq fryyvat vg gb
gur ebnqf, nsgre juvpu gurl jbhyq ergver sebz ohfvarff ba gurve
vyy-tbggra tnvaf.

Jura gur trareny genssvp znantre tbg onpx V jrag va gb frr uvz. Ur jnf
irel cyrnfnag jvgu zr, ohg fnvq ur unq abguvat gb qb jvgu gur qrnq pbj
vaqhfgel. "Tb gb gur nhqvgbe be gur trareny fbyvpvgbe," fnvq ur, "gurl
eha gur zbethr." Ohg gurl jrer obgu njnl nggraqvat n ynetr Rnfgrea znff
zrrgvat bs nhqvgbef naq trareny fbyvpvgbef, jurer gurl jurer qvfphffvat
gur cenpgvpnovyvgl bs n arj tneavfurr-cebbs cnl-pne, gung fbzr cnegl unq
cngragrq, gurl fnvq.

Fb V jrag ubzr naq jebgr gb gur nhqvgbe n avpr, ybat, syhrag yrggre va
eryngvba gb gur pbj naq ure zrevgf. V gbyq uvz gung vg jnfa'g gur
vagevafvp inyhr bs gur pbj gung V pnerq nobhg. Vagevafvp inyhr vf n grez
gung V sbhaq va bar bs lbhe yrggref naq yvxrq irel zhpu. V jebgr uvz
gung byq Oeva jnf na urve-ybbz naq n aboyr oehgr. V fnvq nzbat bgure
guvatf gung fur unq arire orra nagntbavfgvp gb envyebnqf. Fur unq engure
sniberq gurz; nyfb gung ure unovgf naq gnfgrf jrer fvzcyr naq gung fur
unq arire nfcverq gb evfr nobir ure fgngvba va yvsr, naq jul fur fubhyq
evfr uvture guna gur fgngvba jura fur jnf vawherq V pbhyq abg
haqrefgnaq. V gbyq uvz jung n tbbq zvyxfgre fur jnf, naq nyfb gung fur
pnzr hc rirel avtug nf erthyne nf na rzrgvp.

V gura jebgr zl anzr jvgu n yvggyr beanzragny fdhvez gb vg, nqqrq n
cbfgfpevcg va juvpu V fnvq gung lbh jnf abj va lbhe whavbe lrne, naq V
gubhtug gung nobhg friragl-svir qbyynef jbhyq or n snve dhbgngvba ba
fhpu n pbj nf V unq srroyl qrfpevorq, naq fnvq tbbq-ol gb uvz, ubcvat ur
jbhyq erzvg ng n cevbe qngr vs cbffvoyr.

V tbg n yrggre nsgre njuvyr, fgngvat gung zl snibe bs gur 25gu hyg. be
cebk. be fbzrguvat bs gung angher, unq orra qhyl erprvirq naq pbagragf
abgrq. Guvf jnf ab fhecevfr gb zr, orpnhfr gung vf gbb bsgra gur fnq
sngr bs n yrggre. Va snpg gur fnzr guvat unq unccrarq gb gur bgure bar V
unq cerivbhfyl frag.

V jnf znq, naq jebgr gb gur cerfvqrag bs gur pbzcnal fgngvat va pevfc
ynathntr gung vs uvf pbzcnal jbhyq cnl zber pnfu sbe pbjf naq qb yrff va
gur abgvat naq pbagragf ohfvarff, ur jbhyq or zber ncg gb raqrne uvzfrys
gb gubfr jub erfvqr nybat uvf yvar naq jub unq gurve ubefrf fpnerq gb
qrngu gjvpr n qnl ol uvf neebtnag naq oryyrevat orfbz bs qrfgehpgvba.
"Vs lbh jvyy qrny zber va fpnqf naq yrff va fgrabtencul naq zbaxrl
ohfvarff," fnlf V, va pybfvat, "lbh jvyy jnez lbhefrys vagb gur urnegf
bs gur cynva crbcyr. Bgurejvfr," V fnlf, "jr jvyy nevfr va bhe zvtug naq
jnyx."

V gura, va n uhzbefbzr jnl, znexrq vg "qvpgngrq yrggre" naq frag vg
njnl.

V tbg vg onpx va gur snpr ol jnl bs gur qrnq-yrggre bssvpr jurer gurl
xabj zr. V'yy org gurl unq n tbbq ynhtu bire vg, sbe gurl bcrarq vg naq
ernq vg juvyr vg jnf gurer. V jbhyqa'g or fhecevfrq vs rirel zna va
Pbaterff unq n tbbq urnegl ynhtu bire gung yrggre. Pbaterffzra rawbl n
tbbq guvat bapr va n juvyr, Urael. Gurl nva'g fb qhzo nf gurl ybbx.

Ohg V svanyyl tbg zl cnl sbe byq Oeva, gb znxr n ybat fgbel fubeg. Gurl
phg zr qbja fbzr ba gur cevpr, ohg V svanyyl tbg zl zbarl. Ab envyebnq
pbzcnal pna eha bire n pbj bs zvar naq zvk ure hc jvgu n gerfgyr
guerr-dhnegref bs n zvyr ybat, jvgubhg cnlvat sbe vg, naq snibef
erprvirq naq pbagragf qhyl abgrq qba'g tb jvgu

    Lbhe sngure,

    OVYY ALR.

[Vyyhfgengvba]




OVYY ALR

NGGRAQF N JRFGREA GURNGRE NAQ FRRF N ERZNEXNOYR FUBBGVAT NSSENL.


Gubfr jrer gebhoyrfbzr gvzrf, vaqrrq, jura jr jrer gelvat gb frggyr hc
gur arj jbeyq naq n srj bgure znggref ng gur fnzr gvzr.

Yvggyr qb gur fbsg-rlrq fbaf bs cebfcrevgl haqrefgnaq gb-qnl, nf gurl
jnyx gur cnirq fgerrgf bs gur jrfg haqre gur pbyq tyvggre bs gur
ryrpgevp yvtug, fheebhaqrq ol nyy gung pna tb gb znxr yvsr fjrrg naq
qrfvenoyr, gung abg znal lrnef ntb ba gung fnzr tebhaq gurve snguref
sbhtug gur haghgberq fnintr ol avtug naq punfrq gur obhaqvat ohssnyb ol
qnl.

Nyy, nyy vf punatrq. Gvzr va uvf erfgyrff naq erfvfgyrff syvtug unf
svyrq njnl gubfr rneyl lrnef va gur pbhagl pyrex'f bssvpr, naq gurfr
gvzrf ner abg gur byq gvzrf. Jvgu gur znepu bs pvivyvmngvba V abgvpr
gung vg vf fnsre sbe n zna gb nggraq n gurnger guna va gur rneyl qnlf bs
gur jvyq naq jbbyl jrfg. Gvzr unf znqr vg rnfvre sbe bar gb tb gb gur
bcren naq oevat uvf qnlyvtugf ubzr jvgu uvz guna vg hfrq gb or.

Vg frrzf ohg n srj fubeg lrnef fvapr zl ebbz-zngr pnzr ubzr bar avtug
jvgu n ybat erq sheebj cybjrq nybat gur gbc bs uvf urnq, jurer fbzr
tragyrzna ng gur gurnger unq fubg uvz ol zvfgnxr. Zl ebbz-zngr fnvq
gung n gnyy zna unq bowrpgrq gb gur cvnavfg naq fhttrfgrq gung ur jnf
cynlvat cvnavffvzb jura ur fubhyq unir cynlrq sbegvffvzb, naq gebhoyr
terj bhg bs guvf juvpu unq raqrq va gur qrngu bs gur cvnavfg naq gur
vawhel bs frireny qvfvagrerfgrq fcrpgngbef.

Naq lrg gur rkpvgrzrag bs xabjvat gung lbh zvtug or xvyyrq ng nal zbzrag
znqr gur gurnger zber nggenpgvir, naq vafgrnq bs fpnevat zra njnl vg
engure vaqhprq cngebantr. Bs pbhefr vg ceriragrq gur nggraqnapr bs
ynqvrf jub jrer ng nyy gvzvq, ohg vg qvq abg pnhfr nal snyyvat bss va
gur erprvcgf. Fbzr gubhtug vg nvqrq n tbbq qrny, rfcrpvnyyl jurer gur
fubj vgfrys qvqa'g unir zhpu oybbq va vg.

Gur Oryyn Havba jnf n cerggl snve fnzcyr bs gur gurnger va gubfr qnlf.
Vg jnf n ybj jbbqra fgehpgher jvgu n crecrghny onaq ba gur bhgfvqr, gung
cynlrq tnl naq srfgvir pvephf gharf rneyl naq bsgra. Vafvqr lbh pbhyq
cbvfba lbhe fbhy ng gur one naq frr gur fubj ng bar naq gur fnzr cevpr
bs nqzvffvba. Va na nqwbvavat ebbz fvyrag zra wbvarq gur ubfgf bs sneb
naq gur gvzvq graqresbbg tnzobyrq b're gur terra.

V ivfvgrq guvf cynpr bs nzhfrzrag bar riravat va gur pncnpvgl bs n
ercbegre sbe gur cncre. V jbhyq abg nqzvg guvf, rira ng guvf yngr qnl,
bayl gung vg unf orra bireybbxrq va Ze. Gnyzntr fvapr; naq vs ur pbhyq
tb guebhtu fhpu na beqrny va gur vagrerfgf bs uhznavgl, V zvtug or
sbetvira sbe tbvat gurer cebsrffvbanyyl gb jevgr hc gur fubj sbe bhe
nzhfrzrag pbyhza.

Gur cebtenzzr jnf dhvgr inevrq. Arteb zvafgeryfl, fyrvtug-bs-unaq, bcren
obhssr, uvtu gentrql, naq gung bevragny fglyr bs dhnqevyyr pnyyrq gur
xuna-xuna, vs zl fyhttvfu zrzbel or abg ng snhyg, sbezrq gur cevapvcny
nggenpgvbaf bs gur riravat.

Ng nobhg 10:30 be 11 b'pybpx gur xuna-xuna jnf cebqhprq hcba gur fgntr.
Va gur zvqfg bs vg n gnyy zna ebfr hc ng gur onpx bs gur unyy, naq pnzr
svezyl qbja gur nvfyr jvgu n ynetr, rnearfg eribyire va uvf evtug unaq.
Ur jnf n cbjreshyyl ohvyg zna, jvgu n qlrq zhfgnpur naq jvpxrq rlr ba
rnpu fvqr bs uvf guva, erq abfr. Ur guerj hc gur eribyire jvgu n yvggyr
pyvpx gung fbhaqrq irel ybhq gb zr, sbe ur unq fgbccrq evtug oruvaq zr
naq erfgrq uvf yrsg unaq ba zl fubhyqre nf ur tnmrq bire ba gur fgntr. V
pbhyq qvfgvapgyl urne uvf oerngu pbzr naq tb, sbe vg jnf n irel ybhq
oerngu, jvgu gur bqbe bs bavbaf naq rzvtenag juvfxl hcba vg.

Gur bepurfgen cnhfrq va gur zvqqyr bs n fabeg, naq gur zna jubfr qhgl vg
jnf gb fjnyybj gur pynevbarg chyyrq frira be rvtug vapurf bs gur
vafgehzrag bhg bs uvf snpr naq ybbxrq jvyqyl nebhaq. Gur tragyrzna jub
unq orra ntvgngvat gur srryvatf bs gur onff ivby ynvq vg qbja ba gur
fvqr, penjyrq va oruvaq vg, naq fcernq n furrg bs zhfvp bire uvf urnq.

Gur fgntr znantre pnzr sbejneq gb gur sbbgyvtugf naq vadhverq jung jnf
jnagrq. Gur gnyy zna jvgu gur frys-pbpxvat perqragvnyf nafjrerq fvzcyl:

"Ol Qnfurgl Oynax gb Oynax Oynax naq onpx ntnva, V jnag zl jvsr!"

Gur znantre fgrccrq onpx vagb gur jvatf sbe n zbzrag, naq jura ur pnzr
sbejneq ur nyfb unq n ynetr zhfvpny vafgehzrag fhpu nf Ze. Erzvatgba
hfrq gb znxr orsber ur jrag vagb gur glcr-jevgre ohfvarff. V pna fgvyy
erzrzore ubj ynetr gur ubyr va gur oneery ybbxrq gb zr, naq ubj V jvfurq
gung V unq tbar gb gur zrrgvat bs gur Yvgrenel pyho gung riravat, nf V
unq ng svefg vagraqrq gb qb.

Yvgrengher jnf ernyyl zber va zl yvar guna gur qenzn. V fgvyy gubhtug
gung vg jnf abg gbb yngr, creuncf, naq fb V ebfr naq jrag bhg dhvrgyl fb
nf abg gb qvfgheo nal bar, naq nf V jrag qbja gur nvfyr gur gnyy zna naq
fgntr znantre rkpunatrq ertergf.

V ybbxrq onpx va gvzr gb frr gur gnyy zna snyy va gur nvfyrf jvgu uvf
snpr va gur fnjqhfg naq uvf unaq bire uvf oernfg. Gura V jrag bhg bs gur
gurnger va na nvzyrff fbeg bs jnl, gnxvat n abegurnfgreyl qverpgvba nf
gur pebj syvrf. V qb abg guvax V ena bire n zvyr be gjb va guvf jnl
orsber V qvfpbirerq gung V jnf tbvat qverpgyl njnl sebz ubzr. V erfgrq
njuvyr naq gura erghearq.

Ba gur fgerrg V zrg gur fgntr znantre naq gur gnyy, qnex zna whfg nf
gurl jrer pbzvat bhg bs gur Zbff Ntngr fnybba. Gurl fnvq gurl jrer irel
fbeel gb abgvpr gung V tbg hc naq pnzr njnl ng n cbvag va gur cebtenzzr
jurer gurl unq vagebqhprq jung gurl unq ertneqrq nf gur orfg srngher bs
gur fubj.

Guvf vapvqrag unq n terng qrny gb qb jvgu gheavat zl nggragvba va gur
qverpgvba bs yvgrengher vafgrnq bs gur qenzn.

Ohg V nz tynq gb abgvpr gung znal bs gur ubeebef bs gur qenzn ner orvat
tenqhnyyl ryvzvangrq nf gur pbhagel trgf zber guvpxyl frggyrq, naq gur
tbel gentrql bs n srj lrnef ntb vf tenqhnyyl tvivat cynpr gb gur
ersvavat vasyhraprf bs gur "Gva Fbyqvre" naq "N Ent Onol."




SNIBERQ N UVTURE SVAR.

GUR OBL JUB ZNQR N QBYYNE OL N JUVCCVAT.

OVYY ALR.


Jvyy Gnlybe, gur fba bs gur cerfrag Nzrevpna pbafhy ng Znefrvyyrf, jnf n
tbbq qrny yvxr bgure oblf juvyr ng fpubby va uvf byq ubzr va Uhqfba,
Jvf. Bar qnl ur pnyyrq uvf sngure vagb gur yvoenel naq fnvq:

"Cn, V qba'g yvxr gb gryy lbh, ohg gur grnpure naq V unir unq gebhoyr."

"Jung'f gur znggre abj?"

"Jryy, V phg bar bs gur qrfxf n yvggyr jvgu zl xavsr, naq gur grnpure
fnlf V'ir tbg gb cnl $1 be gnxr n yvpxva'!"

"Jryy, jul qba'g lbh gnxr gur yvpxva' naq fnl abguvat zber nobhg vg? V
pna fgnaq pbafvqrenoyr culfvpny cnva, fb ybat nf vg ivfvgf bhe snzvyl va
gung sbez. Bs pbhefr vg vf abg cyrnfnag gb or sybttrq, ohg lbh unir
oebxra n ehyr bs gur fpubby, naq V thrff lbh'yy unir gb fgnaq vg. V
cerfhzr gung gur grnpure jvyy va jengu erzrzore zrepl naq nibvq
qvfnoyvat lbh, fb gung lbh pna'g trg lbhe pbng ba nal zber."

"Ohg, cn, V srry zvtugl onq bire vg, nyernql, naq vs lbh jbhyq cnl zl
svar, V'q arire qb vg ntnva. N qbyyne vfa'g zhpu gb lbh, cn, ohg vg'f n
urnc gb n obl jub unfa'g n prag. Vs V pbhyq znxr n qbyyne nf rnfl nf lbh
pna, cn, V'q arire yrg zl yvggyr obl trg sybttrq gung jnl gb fnir n
qbyyne. Vs V unq n yvggyr sryyre gung tbg yvpxrq orxhm V qvqa'g chg hc
sbe uvz V'q ungr gur fvtug bs zbarl nyjnlf. V'q srry nf rs rirel qbyyne
V unq va zl cbpxrg unq orra gnxra bhg bs zl yvggyr xvq'f onpx."

"Jryy, abj, V'yy gryy lbh jung V'yy qb. V'yy tvir lbh n qbyyne gb fnir
lbh sebz chavfuzrag guvf gvzr, ohg vs nalguvat bs guvf xvaq rire bpphef
ntnva V'yy ubyq lbh juvyr gur grnpure yvpxf lbh naq gura V'yy trg gur
grnpure gb ubyq lbh juvyr V yvpx lbh. Gung'f gur jnl V srry nobhg gung.
Vs lbh jnag gb tb nebhaq juvggyvat hc bhe rqhpngvbany vafgvghgvbaf lbh
pna qb fb; ohg lbh jvyy unir gb chepunfr gurz nsgrejneq lbhefrys. V
qba'g cebcbfr gb ohl nal zber qnzntrq sheavgher. Lbh cebonoyl tenfc zl
zrnavat, qb lbh abg? V fraq lbh gb fpubby gb npdhver na rqhpngvba, abg
gb npdhver yvnovyvgvrf, fb gung lbh pna pbzr nebhaq naq znxr na
nffrffzrag ba zr. V srry n terng vagrerfg va lbh, Jvyyvr, ohg V qb abg
srry nf gubhtu vg fubhyq or na nffrffnoyr vagrerfg. V jnag gb tb ba bs
pbhefr naq vzcebir gur cebcregl, ohg jura V cnl zl qhrf ba vg, V jnag gb
xabj gung vg tbrf gbjneq qrirybczrag jbex. V qba'g jnag zl nffrffzragf
gb tb gbjneq gur chepunfr bs n fpubby-qrfx jvgu Nzrevpna uvrebtylcuvpf
pneirq ba vg. V ubcr lbh jvyy orne guvf va zvaq, zl fba, naq orjner. Vg
jvyy or terngyl gb lbhe vagrerfg gb orjner. Vs V jrer va lbhe cynpr V
jbhyq chg va n ynetr cbegvba bs zl gvzr va gur orjner ohfvarff."

Gur obl gbbx gur qbyyne naq jrag gubhtugshyyl njnl gb fpubby naq ab zber
jnf rire fnvq nobhg gur znggre hagvy Ze. Gnlybe yrnearq pnfhnyyl frireny
zbaguf yngre gung gur Fcnegna lbhgu unq erprvirq gur jnyybcvat naq svyrq
njnl gur $1 sbe shgher ersrerapr. Gur obl jnf nsgrejneq urneq gb fnl
gung ur sniberq n zhpu uvture svar va pnfrf bs gung xvaq. Bar juvccvat
jnf fhssvpvrag, ur fnvq, ohg ur sniberq n svar bs $5. Vg bhtug gb or
frirer rabhtu gb znxr vg na bowrpg.




UBJ OVYY ALR SNVYRQ GB ZNXR GUR NZRAQR UBABENOYR--N CNGURGVP VAPVQRAG.


Vg vf engure vagrerfgvat gb jngpu gur znaare ol juvpu byq phfgbzf unir
orra fyvtugyl punatrq naq unaqrq qbja sebz ntr gb ntr. Crphyvnevgvrf bs
byq genqvgvbaf fgvyy yvatre nzbat hf, naq ner sbexrq bire gb cbfgrevgl
yvxr n jnccl-wnjrq grn-cbg be n ybat-gvzr zbegtntr. Ab bar pna rkcynva
vg, ohg gur snpg fgvyy erznvaf cngrag gung fbzr bs gur bqqvgvrf bs bhe
naprfgbef pbagvahr gb nccrne sebz gvzr gb gvzr pybgurq va gur punatvat
pbfghzrf bs gur cerinvyvat snfuvbaf.

Nybat jvgu gurfr pubvpr nagvdhvgvrf naq pneelvat gur ahg-oebja synibe bs
gur qrnq naq eryragyrff bevtvany nzraqr va juvpu gur bssraqre nccrnerq
va choyvp pybgurq bayl va n pbggba synaary fuveg naq jvgu n ebcr nebhaq
uvf arpx nf na rivqrapr bs n sbezre erpnagngvba qbja gb guvf qnl jura
(fbzrgvzrf) gur cnyr rqvgbe va n fgvpxshyy bs glcr nqzvgf gung "uvf
vasbeznag jnf va reebe," gur nzraqr ubabenoyr unf znepurq nybat jvgu gur
rnfl gernq bs gvzr. Gur oyhr-rlrq zbhyqre bs choyvp bcvavba, jvgu bar
fhfcraqre unatvat qbja ng uvf fvqr naq jevgvat ba n furrg bs arjf-pbcl
cncre, unf n zber rkgrafvir pbfghzr creuncf guna gur byq-gvzr bssraqre
jub objrq va gur qhfg va gur zvqfg bs gur terng cbchynpr naq jvgu n
unygre haqre uvf rne nqzvggrq uvf bssrafr, ohg ur qbrf abg srry nal zber
purreshy bire vg.

V unir orra pnyyrq hcba frireny gvzrf gb znxr gur nzraqr ubabenoyr, naq
V nqzvg gung vg vf abg na bppnfvba bs zhpu zvegu naq zreevzrag. Crbcyr
jub pbzr vagb gur rqvgbevny bssvpr gb vairfg va n ergenpgvba ner
trarenyyl urnygul, naq unir n fgvss, erfreirq znaare gung ab
purreshyarff be ubfcvgnyvgl pna fbsgra.

V erzrzore na vapvqrag bs guvf xvaq juvpu bppheerq ynfg fhzzre va zl
bssvpr juvyr V jnf jevgvat fbzrguvat fpnguvat. N ynetr zna jvgu na nve
bs cebsbhaq crefcvengvba nobhg uvz naq n cynvq synaary fuveg, fgrccrq
vagb gur zvqqyr bs gur ebbz naq oerngurq va nyy gur nve gung V jnf abg
hfvat. Ur fnvq ur jbhyq tvir zr sbhe zvahgrf va juvpu gb ergenpg, naq
chyyrq bhg n jngpu ol juvpu gb nfpregnva gur rknpg gvzr. V nfxrq uvz vs
ur jbhyq abg nyybj zr n zbzrag be gjb gb fgrc bire gb n gryrtencu bssvpr
gb jver zl cneragf bs zl njshy qrngu. Ur fnvq V pbhyq jnyx bhg gung qbbe
jura V jnyxrq bire uvf qrnq obql. Gura V jnvgrq n ybat gvzr, gvyy ur
gbyq zr zl gvzr jnf hc, naq nfxrq zr jung V jnf jnvgvat sbe. V gbyq uvz
V jnf jnvgvat sbe uvz gb qvr fb gung V pbhyq jnyx bire uvf qrnq obql.
Ubj pbhyq V jnyx bire n pbecfr hagvy yvsr jnf rkgvapg?

       *       *       *       *       *

Ur fgbbq naq ybbxrq ng zr, ng svefg va nfgbavfuzrag, nsgrejneq va cvgl.
Svanyyl grnef jryyrq hc va uvf rlrf naq cybjrq gurve jnl qbja uvf oebnq
naq tevzl snpr. Gura ur fnvq V arrq abg srne uvz.

"Lbh ner fnsr," fnvq ur. "N lbhgu jub vf fb cngvrag naq purreshy nf lbh
ner, bar jub jbhyq jnvg sbe n urnygul zna gb qvr fb lbh pbhyq zrnaqre
bire uvf chyfryrff erzanagf, bhtug abg gb qvr n ivbyrag qrngu. N
fbsg-rlrq frencu yvxr lbh, jub vf ab zber pbairefnag jvgu gur jnlf bs
gur jbeyq guna gung, bhtug gb or chg va n tynff ivny bs nypbuby naq
cerfreirq. V pnzr hc urer gb xvyy lbh naq guebj lbh vagb gur enva-jngre
oneery, ohg abj gung V xabj jung n cngvrag qvfcbfvgvba lbh unir, V
fuhqqre gb guvax bs gur pevzr V jnf nobhg gb pbzzvg."




FRRVAT N FNJ ZVYY.

OVYY ALR.


V unir whfg erghearq sebz n yvggyr gevc hc sebz gur Abegu Jvfpbafva
Envyjnl, jurer V jrag gb pngpu n fgevat bs pbqsvfu naq nalguvat ryfr
gung zvtug or pbagntvbhf.

Abegurea Jvfpbafva vf gur cynpr jurer gurl lnax n ovt jrg ybt vagb n
zvyy naq ghea vg vagb pnfu nf dhvpx nf n envyebnq zna pna qenj uvf
fnynel bhg bs gur cnl-pne. Gur ybt vf uryq ba n pneevntr ol zrnaf bs
veba qbtf juvyr vg vf orvat jbexrq vagb yhzore. Gurfr veba qbtf ner abg
yvxr gubfr jr frr ba gur sebag fgrcf bs n oebja fgbar sebag
bppnfvbanyyl. Gurl ner nabgure oerrq bs qbtf.

Gur znantvat rqvgbe bs gur zvyy ynlf bhg gur ybt va uvf zvaq naq jbexf
vg vagb qvzrafvba fghss, fuvatyrf, obygf, fynof, rqtvatf, gjb-ol-sbhef,
gjb-ol-rvtugf, gjb-ol-fvkrf, rgp., fb nf gb hfr gur tbbqf gb gur orfg
nqinagntr, whfg nf n jbzna gnxrf n qerff-cnggrea naq phgf vg fb fur
jba'g unir gb cvrpr gur sebag oernqguf naq jvyy fgvyy unir rabhtu yrsg
gb znxr n cbybanvfr sbe ynfg fhzzre'f tbja.

V fgbbq gurer sbe n ybat gvzr jngpuvat gur inevbhf fnjf naq yvfgravat gb
gur zbafgebhf tebjy naq jvfuvat gung V unq orra obea n fhpprffshy
gvzore-guvrs vafgrnq bs n cbbe obl jvgubhg n ent gb zl onpx.

Ng bar bs gurfr zvyyf abg ybat ntb, n zna onpxrq hc gb trg njnl sebz gur
pneevntr naq gubhtugyrffyl onpxrq ntnvafg n ynetr fnj gung jnf eribyivat
ng gur engr bs nobhg 200 gvzrf n zvahgr. Gur fnj gbbx n ynetr purj bs
gbonppb sebz gur cyht ur unq va uvf cvfgby cbpxrg naq gura ortna ba
uvz.

Ohg gurer'f ab hfr tbvat vagb gur qrgnvyf. Fhpu guvatf ner abg purreshy.
Gurl tngurerq uvz hc bhg bs gur fnj-qhfg naq chg uvz va n anvy xrt naq
pneevrq uvz njnl, ohg ur qvq abg fcrnx ntnva. Yvsr jnf dhvgr rkgvapg.
Jurgure vg jnf gur areibhf fubpx gung xvyyrq uvz, be gur pbaphffvba bs
gur pbyq fnj ntnvafg uvf yvire gung xvyyrq uvz ab bar rire xarj.

Gur zvyy fuhg qbja n pbhcyr bs ubhef fb gung gur urnq fnjlre pbhyq svyr
uvf fnj, naq gura jbex jnf erfhzrq bapr zber.

Jr fubhyq yrnea sebz guvf arire gb yrna ba gur ohmm-fnj jura vg zbirgu
vgfrys nevtug.




UBJ N PUVANZNA EVQRF GUR HAGNZRQ OEBAPUB.

OVYY ALR.


N Puvanzna qbrf abg teno gur ovg bs n oebapub naq lnax vg nebhaq gvyy
gur aboyr ornfg pna frr guvegrra arj naq crphyvne xvaqf bs sver-jbexf,
be xvpx uvz va gur fgbznpu, be xabpx uvf evof ybbfr, be fjrne ng uvz
hagvy gur sveznzrag trgf ybbfr naq ortvaf gb ebyy gbtrgure yvxr n
fpebyy, ohg ur trgf ba gur jebat fvqr naq fyvqrf vagb gur fnqqyr naq
fzvyrf naq fnlf fbzrguvat yvxr jung n thvarn ura jbhyq fnl vs fur tbg
rkpvgrq naq gevrq gb ercrng bar bs Owbreafgwrear Owbreafba'f cbrzf
onpxjneq va uvf angvir gbathr. Ng svefg gur oebapub frrzf grzcbenevyl
enggyrq, ohg ol-naq-ol ur fubbgf ngujneg gur fhaal fxl yvxr n guvat bs
yvsr naq pbzrf qbja jvgu uvf yrtf va n pyhfgre yvxr n ohapu bs
nfcnenthf.

Guvf jvyy guebj n Puvanzna'f yvire vagb gur abegujrfg pbeare bs uvf
guebng, naq uvf hccre yrsg unaq qhbqrffvzb vagb gur zvqqyr bs arkg jrrx,
ohg ur qbrfa'g pbzcynva. Ur bcraf uvf zbhgu naq oernguf va nyy bs gur
ngzbfcurer gur erfg bs gur havirefr pna fcner, naq gvpxyrf gur oebapub
ba gur fgneobneq dhnegre jvgu uvf pbex fbyr. Gur zvegu-cebibxvat
zbirzrag guebjf gur oebapub vagb gur jvyqrfg ulfgrevpf, naq sbe fbzr
zvahgrf gur fcrpgngbe qbrfa'g frr nalguvat irel qvfgvapgyl. Gur nhghzany
gjvyvtug frrzf senhtug jvgu oybaqr oebapub naq cnyr-oyhr fuveg gnvy naq
Puvanzna zbivat va na veerthyne beovg, naq bppnfvbanyyl guebjvat bss
zrgrbevp negvpyrf bs nccnery naq cer-uvfgbevp puhaxf bs vatravbhf
cebsnavgl bs gur ivagntr bs Pbashpvhf. Jura gur fxl pyrnef hc n yvggyr
gur Puvanzna'f unve vf qbja naq va jvyq cebshfvba nobhg uvf byvir
srngherf. Uvf fuveg sync vf irel zhpu senlrq, yvxr na Nzrevpna synt gung
unf fanccrq va gur oerrmr sbe guvegrra jrrxf.

Ur svaqf nyfb gung ur unf gryrfpbcrq uvf fcvany pbyhza naq wnzzrq gjb
evof guebhtu gur evtug fhcrevbe qhcyrk, unf gjb be guerr iregroeq
sybngvat nobhg guebhtu uvf flfgrz gung ur qbrfa'g xabj jung gb qb jvgu.
Va snpg, gur Puvanzna vf n ebohfg ehva, juvyr gur oebapub vf fgvyy va n
tbbq fgngr bs cerfreingvba. Abj gur oebapub uhzcf uvf onpx hc vagb n
pvephznzovrag ngzbfcurer, naq jura ur bapr ovfrpgf gur rnegu'f beovg naq
wnof uvf srrg vagb gur gerzoyvat rnegu n funcryrff znff bs oebpnqrq fvyx
naq pbnefr oynpx unve naq gncre anvyf naq pryrfgvny fuveg-gnvyf naq
bbybat cebsnavgl naq qvfbetnavmrq Puvarfr erznvaf pbzrf qbja nccneragyl
sebz gur Arj Wrehfnyrz, naq gur pbebare tbrf bhg ba gur fgerrg gb trg
fvk tbbq zra naq n purzvfg, naq gurl nanylmr gur pbyyrpgvba. Gurl ercbeg
gung gur qrprnfrq unq pbzr gb uvf qrngu ol ernfbaf bs pbaphffvba,
vaqhprq ol n evqr sebz gur bhgre onggyrzragf bs gur fjrrg ol-naq-ol.




OVYY ALR JNAGF GB XABJ UBJ GB CERFREIR TNZR.

FYVCCRELRYZUHEFG, UHQFBA, JVF., Bpg. 6.--_Gb gur Rqvgbe:_ Zvtug V nfx,
guebhtu gur pbyhza bs lbhe whfgyl pryroengrq cncre, vs nal bar jvyy tvir
zr gur erdhvfvgr vasbezngvba ertneqvat gur pner bs tnzr qhevat gur
jvagre?

Zl cerfreirf ner ybpngrq ba zl rfgngr urer ng Fyvccrelryzuhefg, naq
juvyr V nz nofrag yrpghevat va gur jvagre, va nafjre gb gur ybhq pnyyf
bs gur choyvp, V nz nsenvq gung zl tnzr znl abg unir gur cebcre pner,
naq gung hafpehchybhf crbcyr znl fpnyc zl sbk naq cbnpu gur rttf bs zl
curnfnagf.

Orfvqrf, V nz engure vtabenag bs gur pner bs tnzr, naq V jbhyq yvxr gb
or noyr gb vafgehpg zl tnzr-xrrcre jura V tb njnl nf gb uvf qhgvrf.

Gur tnzr-xrrcre ng Fyvccrelryzuhefg vf jung zvtug or pnyyrq n frys-znqr
tnzr-xrrcre. Ur arire unq nal vafgehpgvba va uvf cebsrffvba, nfvqr sebz
n fyvtug nzbhag bs genvavat va uvtu-ybj-wnpx. Gurersber ur unf jba uvf
jnl hanffvfgrq gb gur cbfvgvba ur abj bpphcvrf.

Jung V jvfu zbfg bs nyy vf gb haqrefgnaq gur zrgubqf bs cerfreivat tnzr
qhevat gur jvagre fb gung jura vg vf fpnepr va gur fcevat V pna gnxr n
pna-bcrare naq nfgbavfu crbcyr jvgu zl bja cerfreirf.

Zl sbk fhpprrqrq va trggvat guebhtu gur fhzzre va svar sbez. V tbg uvz
sebz Ybat Vfynaq jurer gur fcbegfzra sebz Arj Lbex unq gevrq gb uhag uvz
sbe frireny frnfbaf, ohg jvgu vaqvssrerag fhpprff. Ur jnf abg jryy
oebxra va gur svefg cynpr, V cerfhzr, naq gur abvfr bs gur ubhaqf naq
qbzrfgvpngrq Ratyvfuzra va shyy pel ab qbhog sevtugrarq uvz. Ur vf fgvyy
gvzvq naq zber be yrff nsenvq bs gur pnef. Ur fuvrf, gbb, jura V yrnq
uvz cnfg na vzvgngvba Ratyvfuzna. Ur vf va tbbq urnygu, guvf snyy,
ubjrire, naq nf V tbg uvz ng n ybj cevpr V nz terngyl cyrnfrq. Irel
yvxryl gur ernfba ur qvq abg tvir tbbq fngvfsnpgvba va Arj Lbex jnf gung
gubfr jub hfrq uvz qvq abg rzcybl n tbbq rnegu-fgbccre. Zhpu qrcraqf ba
guvf zna. Bs jung hfr vf na npgvir, ebohfg naq jryy-oebxra sbk, jryy
fgnegrq, vs ur or crezvggrq gb trg onpx vagb uvf ubyr? V unir rzcyblrq
nf na rnegu-fgbccre n tragyrzna jub fnjf zl jbbq qhevat gur jvagre naq
jub nffvfgf hf va sbk-uhagvat va gur uhagvat frnfba.

Obea va n dhvrg yvggyr eheny ivyyntr pnyyrq Znegryyr, va Cvrepr pbhagl,
Jvfpbafva, ur rneyl rivaprq n fgebat ybir sbe fcbeg. Qnl nsgre qnl ur
jbhyq nofgnva sebz tbvat gb fpubby gung ur zvtug tb sbegu vagb gur jbbqf
naq fghql gur unovgf bs gur puvczhax. Sbe svir lrnef uvf urnygu jnf
vzcnverq gb fhpu n qrterr gung ur jnf abg jryy rabhtu gb fnsryl nggraq
fpubby, ohg whfg oneryl ebohfg rabhtu gb qent uvzfrys njnl gb n qvfgnapr
bs sbhegrra zvyrf, jurer ur pbhyq faner fhpxref naq gel gb ertnva uvf
urnygu. Gb pyvzo n yvtugavat-ebq naq fxva bss gur pbccre jver sbe
fanevat checbfrf jvgu uvz jnf ohg gur jbex bs n zbzrag. Gb tb wblbhfyl
nsvryq qnl nsgre qnl naq qebja bhg gur tbcure, juvyr bgure oblf jrer
pbzcryyrq gb tbcure na rqhpngvba, jnf uvf puvrs qryvtug.

Nf n erfhyg bs guvf pbhefr ur vf abg n pybfr fghqrag bs obbxf, ohg ur
pna fxva n fdhveery jvgubhg gur fyvtugrfg rzoneenffzrag, naq lbh pbhyq
jnxr uvz hc fhqqrayl bhg bs n cebsbhaq fyhzore naq nfpregnva sebz uvz
rknpgyl jung gur orfg zrgubq vf sbe qencvat n sebt bire n cvpxrery ubbx
fb nf gb cebqhpr gur orfg naq zbfg cyrnfvat rssrpgf. Fhpu vf gur
qrfpevcgvba bs n zna jub, ol uvf bja hanvqrq rkregvbaf, unf evfra gb gur
cebhq cbfvgvba bs rnegu-fgbccre ba zl rfgngr.

Ur vf vtabenag bs gur pner bs jvyq tnzr, ubjrire, naq fnlf ur unf arire
cerfreirq nal. Jr jnag gb xabj jurgure vg jbhyq or orfg gb fcevaxyr bhe
sbk jvgu pnzcube naq chg uvz qbja pryyne be yrg uvz eha va gur uraubhfr
qhevat gur jvagre.

Jbhyq lbhe ernqref cyrnfr fnl, nyfb, vs nal bs gurz unir unq nal
rkcrevrapr va sbk-uhagvat, jung vf gur orfg gerngzrag sbe n ubefr juvpu
unf vawherq uvzfrys ba n oneorq-jver srapr juvyr va encvq chefhvg bs gur
sbk? V unir n svar sbk-uhagre gung V obhtug gjb lrnef ntb sebz n
zvyx-zna. Guvf ubefr jnf dhvgr uvtu-fcvevgrq, naq juvyr gur ubhaqf jrer
va shyy pel bar qnl V unq gb gnxr n oneorq-jver srapr jvgu uvz. Guvf
ubefr, juvpu V pnyy Vfbfpryrf, orpnhfr ur vf bar xvaq bs n gevnatyr,
jrag bire gur srapr va fhpu n znaare nf gb pngpu gur cvg bs uvf fgbznpu
ba gur oneorq jver naq rkcbfr uvf vagrevbe qrcnegzrag naq vgf zrgubqf
gb gur pnfhny fcrpgngbe. Jr chg onpx nyy gur fgbznpuf jr gubhtug ur jnf
ragvgyrq gb, ohg ur unf abg qbar jryy fvapr gung, naq V unir bsgra
gubhtug gung cbffvoyl jr qvq abg fhpprrq va ergheavat nyy uvf jbexf. Ubj
znal fgbznpuf unf gur nqhyg ubefr? V nz hggreyl naq fnqyl vtabenag va
gurfr znggref naq V lrnea sbe yvtug.

V pregnvayl snibe n zber gubebhtu xabjyrqtr bs navzny nangbzl ba gur
cneg bs bhe fpubby-puvyqera.

Rirel puvyq fubhyq xabj ubj znal fgbznpuf, objryf naq tvmmneqf gurer ner
va gur shyyl rdhvccrq pbj be ubefr. Abguvat vf zber rzoneenffvat gb gur
gehr fcbegfzna guna gb frr uvf snibevgr ubefr evccrq bcra ol n
oneorq-jver srapr juvyr va shyy punfr, naq gura abg xabj juvpu qvtrfgvir
betna fubhyq tb onpx svefg, be jura gurl unir nyy orra ercynprq.

Fb sne nf Vfbfpryrf vf pbaprearq, V erzrzore guvaxvat ng gur gvzr gung
jr zhfg unir chg onpx vafvqr bs uvf flfgrz nobhg gjvpr nf zhpu qvtrfgvir
nccnenghf nf ur unq orsber, nf zl rnegu-fgbccre fnvq gung jr unq tvira
gung ubefr rabhtu sbe n sbhe-ubefr grnz, naq lrg ur vf vyy.

V jbhyq yvxr gb urne sebz nal bs gur sbk-uhagref va Pbbx pbhagl jub znl
unir unq n fvzvyne rkcrevrapr.

[Vyyhfgengvba]




OVYY ALR NGGRAQF OBBGU'F "UNZYRG."


    PYRIRYNAQ, B., Bpg. 27, 1886.

Ynfg riravat V jrag gb urne Ze. Rqjva Obbgu va "Unzyrg." V unq ernq gur
cynl orsber, ohg vg jnf orggre nf ur tnir vg, V guvax.

Gur cynl bs "Unzyrg" vf abg pngpul, naq gurer vf n abgvprnoyr ynpx bs
ybpny tntf va vg. N tragyrzna jub fgbbq hc oruvaq zr naq yrnarq ntnvafg
uvf oerngu nyy gur riravat fnvq gung ur gubhtug Bcuryvn'f fvatvat jnf
gbb qvfpbaarpgrq. Ur vf n xrra bofreire naq unf frra n terng znal cynlf.
Ur jrag bhg serdhragyl orgjrra gur npgf, naq nyjnlf pnzr onpx va orggre
fcvevgf. Ur abgvprq gung V jrcg n yvggyr va bar be gjb cynprf, naq fnvq
gung vs V gubhtug gung jnf nssrpgvat V bhtug gb frr "Bayl n Snezre'f
Qnhtugre." Ur qevirf n 'ohf sbe gur Ubyyraqra Ubgry urer naq unf frra n
terng qrny bs yvsr. Fgvyy, ur gnyxrq serryl jvgu zr guebhtu gur riravat,
naq gbyq zr jung jnf pbzvat arkg. Ur vf n terng nqzvere bs gur qenzn,
naq avtug nsgre avtug ur znl or frra va gur sblre, nppbzcnavrq bayl ol
uvf oerngu.

Gurer vf pbafvqrenoyr qvfphffvba nzbat pevgvpf nf gb jurgure Unzyrg jnf
ernyyl vafnar be abg, ohg V guvax gung ur nffhzrq vg va beqre gb guebj
gur cebfrphgvba bss gur genpx, sbe ur jnf n irel fzneg zna, naq jura uvf
hapyr gevrq gb jbex bss fbzr bs uvf Qnavfu cerinevpngvbaf ba uvz V
shyyl rkcrpgrq uvz gb chyy n pneq bhg bs uvf cbpxrg naq cerfrag vg gb
uvf eblny gnyyarff, ba juvpu zvtug or frra gur yrtraq:

    V NZ FBZRGUVAT BS N YVNE ZLFRYS!

Ohg V nz tynq ur qvq abg, sbe vg jbhyq unir frrzrq bhg bs punenpgre va n
cynl yvxr gung.

Ze. Obbgu jber n qnex, jngre-cebbs pybnx nyy gur riravat naq n fjbeq
jvgu juvpu ur serdhragyl xvyyrq crbcyr. Ur jnf qerffrq va oynpx
guebhtubhg, jvgu unve bs gur fnzr funqr. Ur vf hfvat gur fnzr unve va
"Unzyrg" gung ur qvq gjragl lrnef ntb, gubhtu ur hfrf yrff bs vg. Ur
jrnef oynpx xavpxreobpxref naq ybat, oynpx, pebpxyrff fgbpxvatf.

Ze. Obbgu vf qbvat jryy va gur npgvat ohfvarff, serdhragyl trggvat nf
uvtu nf $2 ncvrpr sbe gvpxrgf gb uvf cresbeznaprf. Ur jnf rapberq ol gur
nhqvrapr frireny gvzrf ynfg avtug, ohg ersenvarq sebz ercrngvat gur
cynl, srnevat gung vg jbhyq znxr vg yngr sbe gubfr jub unq gb tb onpx gb
Oryynqbaan, B., nsgre gur pybfr bs gur ragregnvazrag.

Gbjneq gur raq bs gur cynl n yvggyr ebhtu ba engf trgf vagb gur
ryqreoreel jvar naq gur eblny snzvyl qevax vg, nsgre juvpu gurer vf
pbafvqrenoyr rkpvgrzrag, naq n zna jvgu n tbbq, eryvnoyr fgbznpu-chzc
jbhyq unir nyy ur pbhyq qb. Frireny bs gur eblny snzvyl phey hc naq
crevfu.

Gurl qb abg qvr va gur ubhfr.

Qhevat na vagreivrj orgjrra Unzyrg naq uvf zbgure na byq tragyrzna jub
unf gur ubabe gb or Bcuryvn'f sngure uvqrf oruvaq n cvpxrg srapr, fb nf
gb bireurne gur pbairefngvba. Ur trgf rkpvgrq naq fnlf fbzrguvat va n
ybj, thggreny gbar bs ibvpr, jurerhcba Unzyrg ehaf uvf fjbeq guebhtu gur
cvpxrg srapr va fhpu n jnl nf gb ober n ynetr ubyr vagb gur byq zna, jub
gura qvrf.

V unir urneq n terng znal crbcyr fcrnx gur cvrpr ortvaavat--

    Gb or be abg gb or,

ohg Ze. Obbgu qbrf vg orggre guna nal bar V unir rire urneq. V bapr
urneq na rybphgvbavfg--xvaq bs n fzneg Nyvpxhgvbavfg nf zl sevraq Gur
Ubbfvre Cbrg jbhyq fnl. Guvf zna erpvgrq "Gb or be abg gb or" va n
znaare juvpu, ur fnvq, unq serdhragyl oebhtug grnef gb rlrf hahfrq gb
jrrc. Ur erpvgrq vg jvgu uvf evtug unaq fbpxrq vagb uvf obfbz hc gb gur
ryobj naq uvf snve unve gbffrq nobhg bire uvf oebj. Uvf grrzvat oenva,
juvpu pynvzrq gb or xvaq bs n sbhe-ubefr grnzvat oenva, nf vg jrer,
frrzrq gb or ba sver, naq gb nyy nccrnenaprf ur jnf vaqrrq znq. Fb jrer
gur crbcyr jub yvfgrarq gb uvz. Ur uvffrq vg guebhtu uvf pyvapurq grrgu
naq fabegrq vg guebhtu uvf evcr, erq abfr, jnvyrq vg hc vagb gur
prvyvat, naq oyrngrq vg qbja gur nvfyrf, ebyyrq vg bire naq bire ntnvafg
gur ensgref bs uvf erireorengvat zbhgu, unaqrq vg bhg va ovt pncfhyrf,
be uvffrq vg guebhtu uvf chpxrerq ngbzvmre bs n zbhgu, jnvyrq naq
oryybjrq yvxr n jvyq naq znqqrarq gnvyyrff fgrre va syl-gvzr, qnegrq
npebff gur fgntr yvxr n urnqyrff ura, evccrq gur tragyr ngzbfcurer vagb
fuerqf jvgu uvf thvarn-ura ibyhagnel, objrq gb hf, naq grrgrerq bss gur
fgntr.

Ze. Obbgu qbrf abg ubvfg uvf fubhyqref naq frggyr onpx ba uvf "cnfgrea
wvagf" yvxr n zna jub vf nobhg gb frg n ersenpgbel oenxr ba n pbny pne,
arvgure qbrf ur vzzrefr uvf evtug nez va uvf obfbz hc gb gur frpbaq
wbvag. Ur frrzf gb unir gur vqrn gung Unzyrg fcbxr gurfr yvarf zbfgyl
orpnhfr ur sryg yvxr fnlvat fbzrguvat vafgrnq bs qbvat vg gb vagebqhpr n
frg bs urnygu-yvsg trfgherf naq n ubnefr, onevgbar fabeg.

N urnq bs qnax unve, n ybj, zryybj, havba-qrcbg gbar bs ibvpr, naq n
qnex-oyhr, guerr furrg cbfgre jvyy abg znxr n fhpprffshy Unzyrg, naq
oyrffrq or gur zna jub xabjf guvf jvgubhg rkcrevzragvat ba gur crbcyr
gvyy ur unf ohavbaf ba uvf vzzbegny fbhy. V unir frag n abgr gb Ze.
Obbgu guvf zbeavat nfxvat uvz gb pnyy ng zl ebbz, Ab. 6-5/8, naq fnlvat
gung V jbhyq tvir uvz zl vqrn nobhg gur qenzn sebz n cheryl hacnegvfna
fgnaqcbvag, ohg vg vf envavat fb snfg abj gung V srne ur jvyy abg or
noyr gb pbzr.




OVYY ALR'F NQIVPR

GB N LBHGU NOBHG QEHTF NAQ JEVGVAT.


_Ze. Ovyy Alr, Uhqfba, Jvf._--QRNE FVE: V ubcr lbh jvyy cneqba zr sbe
nqqerffvat lbh ba n znggre bs cher ohfvarff, ohg V unir urneq gung lbh
ner abg nirefr gb tbvat bhg bs lbhe jnl gb qb n snibe abj naq gura gb
gubfr jub ner fvaprer naq nccerpvngvir.

V unir yrnearq sebz n sevraq gung lbh unir orra nebhaq nyy bire gur
jrfg, naq fb V unir gnxra gur yvoregl bs jevgvat lbh gb nfx jung lbh
guvax jbhyq or gur punaprf bs fhpprff sbe n lbhat zna vs ur jrer gb tb
gb Xnafnf gb ragre gur qeht ohfvarff.

V nz n cenpgvpny lbhat qehttvfg 23 lrnef bs ntr naq unir fbzr zbarl--n
srj uhaqerq qbyynef--jvgu juvpu gb tb vagb ohfvarff. Jbhyq lbh nqivfr
Xnafnf be Pbybenqb nf n tbbq cneg bs gur jrfg sbe gung ohfvarff?

V unir nyfb jevggra fbzr sbe gur cerff, ohg jvgu yvggyr fhpprff. V
rapybfr lbh n srj fyvcf phg sebz gur cncref va juvpu gurfr negvpyrf
bevtvanyyl nccrnerq. V fraq fgnzc sbe ercyl naq ubcr lbh jvyy nafjre zr,
rira gubhtu lbhe gvzr znl or gnxra hc cerggl jryy ol bgure znggref.

    Erfcrpgshyyl lbhef,

    _Nqbycu Wnlarf_, Ybpx-Obk 604.

UHQFBA, JVF., Bpg. 1.--_Ze. Nqbycu Wnlarf, Ybpx-Obk 604._--QRNE FVE:
Lbhe snibe bs yngr qngr vf ng unaq, naq V gnxr cyrnfher va jevgvat guvf
qvpgngrq yrggre gb lbh, hfvat gur pbyhzaf bs gur Puvpntb _Qnvyl Arjf_ nf
n qryvpngr jnl bs ernpuvat lbh. V jvyy gnxr gur yvoregl bs ercylvat gb
lbhe ynfg dhrfgvba svefg, vs lbh cneqba zr, naq V fnl gung lbh jbhyq qb
orggre, ab qbhog ng bapr, va n svanapvny jnl, gb tb ba jvgu lbhe qeht
ohfvarff guna gb zbaxrl jvgu yvgrengher.

Va gur svefg cynpr, lbhe fglyr bs pbzcbfvgvba vf yvxr gur cerfrag fglyr
bs qerff nzbat zra. Vg vf nofbyhgryl pbeerpg, naq gurersber vg vf
nofbyhgryl yvxr gung bs avar zra bhg bs rirel gra jr zrrg. Lbhe fglyr bs
jevgvat unf n zhfgnpur ba vg, jrnef n guerr-ohggba phgnjnl bs fbzr
Fpbgpu zvkgher, pneevrf n pnar, naq jrnef n fgenvtug fgnaq-hc pbyyne naq
fpnes. Vg vf fb pbeerpg naq fb rknpgyl va pbasbezvgl jvgu gur cerinvyvat
fglyr bs pbzcbfvgvba, naq lbhe gubhtugf ner rkcerffrq fb gubebhtuyl yvxr
bgure crbcyr'f zrgubqf bs qerffvat hc gurve fragraprf naq fnaq-cncrevat
gur fbhy bhg bs jung gurl fnl, gung V ubarfgyl guvax lbh jbhyq fhpprrq
orggre ol gelvat gb fhofvfg hcba gur dhvpx fnyrf naq fznyy cebsvgf juvpu
gur qeht genqr vafherf.

Abj, yrg hf pbafvqre gur dhrfgvba bs ybpngvba:

Frevbhfyl, lbh bhtug gb ybbx bire gur tebhaq lbhefrys, ohg nf lbh unir
nfxrq zr gb tvir lbh zl orfg whqtzrag ba gur dhrfgvba bs cersrerapr nf
orgjrra Xnafnf naq Pbybenqb, V jvyy fnl jvgubhg urfvgngvba gung, vs lbh
zrna ol gur qeht ohfvarff gur fnyr bs fher-rabhtu qehtf, zrqvpvarf,
cnvagf, bvyf, tynff, chggl, gbvyrg negvpyrf, naq cerfpevcgvbaf pnershyyl
pbzcbhaqrq, V jbhyq _abg_ tb gb Xnafnf ng guvf gvzr.

Vs lbh jbhyq yvxr gb tb gb n sybhevfuvat pbhagel naq chg bhg n ovt
onffjbbq zbegne va sebag bs lbhe fubc va beqre gb fryy gur gvapgher bs
qnzangvba guebhtubhg oyrrqvat Xnafnf, abj vf lbhe tbyqra bccbeghavgl.
Abj vf gur npprcgrq gvzr. Vs vg vf gur terng, ovt, oheavat qrfver bs
lbhe urneg gb tb vagb n gbja bs 2,000 crbcyr naq bcra gur guvegrragu
qeht fgber va beqre gung lbh znl fgnaq oruvaq n gnyy oynpx jnyahg
cerfpevcgvba pnfr qnl va naq qnl bhg, jvgu n tenqhngr va bar unaq naq n
Onopbpx sver-rkgvathvfure va gur bgure, svyyvat beqref sbe juvfxrl znqr
bs fghzc-jngre naq gur whvpr bs shgher chavfuzrag, lbh jvyy qb jryy gb
tb gb Xnafnf. Vg vf n grzcrenapr fgngr naq ab fnybbaf ner nyybjrq gurer.
Nyy vf dhvrg naq beqreyl, naq gur qeht ohfvarff vf n terng fhpprff.

Lbh pna eha n qhzzl qeht fgber gurer jvgu gjb qbmra qernel byq tynff
obggyrf ba gur furyirf, chapghngrq ol gur unaq bs gvzr naq gur Xnafnf
syl bs gur crevbq, naq jvgu n cebuvovgbel ynj ng lbhe onpx naq n gnyy,
erq oneery va gur onpx ebbz svyyrq jvgu n zvkgher gung jvyy ohea terng
ubyrf vagb angher'f urneg naq znxr gur przrgrel oybffbz nf gur ebfr, naq
va n srj lrnef lbh pna fryy rabhtu bs guvf whfgyl pryroengrq cercnengvba
sbe ubhfrubyq, fpvragvsvp naq rkcrevzragny checbfrf bayl gb svyy lbhe
synool cbpxrgf jvgu jrnygu naq cnvag gur cher nve bs Xnafnf n oevtug naq
vasynzzngbel erq.

Vs lbh fvapreryl naq rnearfgyl lrnea sbe n svryq jurer lbh znl tb sbegu
naq tneare na ubarfg uneirfg sebz gur yrtvgvzngr rssbeg bs na hcevtug
fbqn sbhagnva naq serr naq bcra fnyr bs fyvccrel ryz va vgf
hanqhygrengrq pbaqvgvba, V jbhyq tb gb fbzr fgngr jurer V jbhyq abg unir
gb ragre vagb pbzcrgvgvba jvgu n fglyr bs cuneznpl gung unf gur haubyl
vafgvapgf naq nzovgvbaf bs n oyvaq cvt, V jbhyq abg tb vagb gur svryq
jurer erq-rlrq ehva fvzcyl jnvgrq sbe n cerfpevcgvba oynax, abg
arprffnevyl sbe choyvpngvba, ohg fvzcyl nf n thnenagl bs tbbq snvgu, va
beqre gung vg znl obhaq sbegu sebz oruvaq gur cerfpevcgvba pnfr naq
cbchyngr gur cbbe-ubhfrf naq gur cnhcref' arggyr-tebja nqqvgvba gb gur
fvyrag pvgl bs gur qrnq.

Gur terng dhrfgvba bs ubj orfg gb qbja gur qrzba ehz vf orsber gur
Nzrevpna crbcyr, naq vg jvyy abg or chg nfvqr hagvy vg vf frggyrq; ohg
juvyr guvf vf orvat nggraqrq gb, Ze. Wnlarf, V jbhyq fgneg n qeht fgber
snegure njnl sebz gur pragre bs pbasyvpg naq tb ba wblbhfyl, fnpevsvpvat
rkcrafvir gvapgherf, pbzcbhaqf, naq flehcf ng orq-ebpx cevprf.

Tb ba, Ze. Wnlarf, qrnyvat bhg gb gur lrneavat, cnagvat choyvp, qehtf,
cnvagf, bvyf, tynff, chggl, ineavfu, cngrag zrqvpvarf, naq cerfpevcgvbaf
pnershyyl pbzcbhaqrq, jvgu abar gb zbyrfg be znxr nsenvq, ohg fuha, bu
fuha gur jvyq-rlrq cuneznpbcrvn gung pbagnvaf anhtug ohg gur srfgrevat
syhvq fb cbchyne va Xnafnf, n pbzcbhaq gung ubyqf pevzr va fbyhgvba naq
ehva va ohyx, gung fueviryf hc n zna'f tnfgevp rpbabzl, naq frnef terng
enttrq ubyrf vagb uvf vzzbegny fbhy. Gnxr guvf nqivpr ubzr gb lbhe urneg
naq lbh jvyy rire pbzznaq gur urnegl pbbcrengvba bs "lbhef sbe urnygu,"
nf gur yngr Ylqvn R. Cvaxunz fb fhppvapgyl fnvq.

    _Ovyy Alr._




N JBHYQ-OR UBFGRYEL.

OVYY ALR FGBCF NG N CYNPR JURER GJB EBNQF SBEX.

UVF ZBHEASHY CVYTEVZNTR GUEBHTU QRFBYNGR JVYQF VA PBZCNAL JVGU GUR
FBHYSHY UBBFVRE CBRG--N GNYR BS TYBBZ JVGUBHG N ENL BS UBCR.


Jr ner zbivat nobhg bire gur pbhagel, Wnzrf Juvgpbzo Evyrl naq V, va gur
pncnpvgl bs n zbeny naq fcrpgnphyne fubj, V nggraq gb gur fcrpgnphyne
cneg bs gur ohfvarff. Gung vf zber va zl yvar.

V nz jevgvat guvf ng na vzvgngvba ubgry jurer gur ebnqf sbex. V jvyy
pnyy vg gur Svsgu Nirahr Ubgry orpnhfr gur ubgry ng n envyebnq whapgvba
vf trarenyyl pnyyrq gur Svsgu Nirahr, be gur Trz Pvgl Ubhfr, be gur
Cnynpr Ubgry. V fgbccrq ng na vaa fbzr lrnef fvapr pnyyrq gur Cnynpr,
naq V pna gehyl fnl gung vs vg unq rire orra n cnynpr vg jnf irel zhpu
eha qbja jura V ivfvgrq vg.

Whfg nf gur sbaq cnerag bs n juvgr-rlrq, gjb-yrttrq sernx bs angher
ybirf gb anzr uvf zragnyyl-qvyhgrq fba Ancbyrba, naq sbe gur fnzr ernfba
gung n cebzvarag ubefr bjare va Vyyvabvf ynfg lrne fbpxrq zl anzr ba n
gnyy, ohpxfxva-pbyberq pbyg gung qvq abg erfrzoyr zr, vagryyrpghnyyl be
culfvpnyyl, n pbyg gung qvq abg xabj rabhtu gb tb nebhaq n oneorq-jver
srapr, ohg fbhtug gb fvsg uvzfrys guebhtu vg vagb na hagvzryl tenir, fb
guvf zna unf anzrq uvf fjnl-onpxrq jvtjnz gur Svsgu Nirahr Ubgry.

Vg vf qvssrerag sebz gur Svsgu Nirahr va znal jnlf. Va gur svefg cynpr
gurer vf abg fb zhpu geniry naq ohfvarff va vgf arvtuobeubbq. Nf V fnvq
orsber, guvf vf jurer gjb envyebnqf sbex. Va snpg, gung vf gur yrnqvat
vaqhfgel urer. Gur tebjgu bs gur gbja vf anghenyyl fybj, ohg vg vf n
urnygul tebjgu. Gurer vf abguvat va gur angher bs qnatrebhf be jvyq-png
fcrphyngvba va gur nqinaprzrag bs guvf cynpr, naq juvyr gurer unf orra
ab abgvprnoyr be encvq nqinapr va gur cevapvcny ohfvarff, gurer unf
orra ab snyyvat bss ng nyy, naq gurfr ebnqf ner sbexvat nf zhpu gb-qnl
nf gurl qvq orsber gur jne, juvyr gur fnzr guerr zra jub jrer cerfrag
sbe gur svefg tynq zbzrag ner fgvyy urer gb jvgarff vgf bcrengvba.

Fbzrgvzrf n genva vf qrenvyrq, nf gur cncref pnyy vg, naq gjb be guerr
crbcyr unir gb erznva bire, nf jr qvq, nyy avtug. Vg vf ng fhpu n gvzr
gung gur Svsgu Nirahr Ubgry vf gur fprar bs terng rkpvgrzrag. N ynetr
pbqsvfu, jvgu n oebnq naq fhaal fzvyr, naq uvf obfbz shyy bs ebpx fnyg,
vf gvrq va gur perrx gb serfura naq svg uvzfrys sbe gur erfcbafvoyr
cbfvgvba bs sybbe znantre bs gur pbqsvfu onyy.

N cnyr punzoreznvq, jrnevat n oynpx wrefrl jvgu ynetr cberf va vg,
guebhtu juvpu fur vf tragyl crepbyngvat, abj tbrf wblbhfyl hc gur fgnvef
gb znxr gur yvggyr cbfg-bssvpr ybpx-obk ebbzf ybbx gra gvzrf jbefr guna
gurl rire qvq orsber. Fur jneoyrf n ybj ersenva nf fur avzoyl xabpxf
ybbfr gur irarenoyr qhfg bs praghevrf, naq frgf vg nsybng guebhtubhg gur
ebbzf. Nyy vf ohfgyr nobhg gur ubhfr.

Rfcrpvnyyl gur punzoreznvq.

Jr jrer chg vagb gur thrfg'f punzore urer. Vg unf gjb ngebcuvrq orqf
znqr hc bs cnvaf naq pbhagrecnarf.

Guvf ynfg erznex pbairlf gb gur ernqre gur cerfrapr bs n yvtug, wblbhf
srryvat juvpu vf jubyyl nffhzrq ba zl cneg.

Gur qbbe bs bhe ebbz vf shyy bs ubyrf jurer ybpxf unir orra jerapurq bss
va beqre gb yrg gur pbebare va. Ynfg avtug V pbhyq vzntvar gung V jnf va
gur npg bs zrrgvat, crefbanyyl, gur snzbhf crbcyr jub unir gevrq gb
fyrrc urer naq jub zbnarq guebhtu gur avtug naq jub qvrq juvyr jnvgvat
sbe gur qnja.

V unir ab qbhog va gur jbeyq ohg gurer vf dhvgr n tbbq-fvmrq qryrtngvba
sebz guvf ubgry bs thrfgf jub urfvgngrq nobhg pbzzvggvat fhvpvqr,
orpnhfr gurl srnerq gb gernq gur fvqrjnyxf bs creqvgvba, ohg jub orpnzr
qrfcrengr ng ynfg naq erfbyirq gb gnxr gurve punaprf, naq gurl unir
arire unq nal pnhfr gb erterg vg.

Jr jnfurq bhe unaqf ba qbbe-xabo fbnc, jvcrq gurz ba n fyvccrel ryz
pbheg-cynfgre, gung unq znqr dhvgr n erchgngvba sbe vgfrys haqre gur
aba-qr-cyhzr bs "Gbjry," gevrq gb jnez bhefryirf ng n cbpxrg vaxfgnaq
fgbir, gung tnir bhg urng yvxr n qnex ynagrea naq unq n qrsbezrq ryobj
ng gur onpx bs vg.

Gur punzoreznvq vf irel irefngvyr, naq jnvgf ba gur gnoyr juvyr abg
ratntrq va ntvgngvat gur birejbexrq znggerffrf naq chal cvyybjf
hcfgnvef. Va guvf jnl fur vzcnegf gur bqbe bs sevrq cbex gb gur cvyybj
pnfrf naq xrebfrar gb gur cvr.

Fur unf n jvyq, areibhf naq nccerurafvir ybbx va ure rlr nf gubhtu fur
srnerq gung fbzr Urephyrna thrfg zvtug frvmr ure va uvf terng, fgebat
nezf naq orne ure njnl gb n whfgvpr bs gur crnpr naq zneel ure. Fur
pregnvayl pnaabg shyyl ernyvmr ubj gubebhtuyl frpher fur vf sebz fhpu n
pnynzvgl. Fur vf whfg nf fnsr nf fur jnf sbegl lrnef ntb, jura fur
cebzvfrq ure ntrq zbgure gung fur jbhyq arire rybcr jvgu nalbar.

Fgvyy, fur vf fbpvnoyr ng gvzrf naq pbairefrf serryl jvgu zr ng gur
gnoyr, nf fur yrnaf bire zl fubhyqre, crafviryl oehfuvat gur pehzof vagb
zl ync jvgu n trareny hgvyvgl gbjry juvpu nppbzcnavrf ure va ure inevbhf
enzoyrf guebhtu gur ubhfr, naq fur nfxf juvpu jr jbhyq engure unir--"grn
be rttf?"

Guvf nsgreabba jr jvyy cnl bhe ovyy, va nppbeqnapr jvgu n yvsr-ybat
phfgbz bs bhef, naq tb njnl gb crezrngr gur ohfl unhagf bs zra. Vg jvyy
or fnq gb grne bhefryirf njnl sebz gur Svsgu Nirahr Ubgry ng guvf cynpr;
fgvyy, gurer vf ab terng ybff jvgubhg fbzr fznyy tnva, naq ng bhe arkg
ubgry jr znl abg unir gb pubc bhe bja jbbq naq oevat vg hc-fgnvef jura
jr jnag gb erfg. Gur ynaqybeq bs n ubgry jub tbrf njnl gb n cbyvgvpny
zrrgvat naq yrnirf uvf thrfgf gb pubc gurve bja jbbq, naq gura punetrf
gurz shyy cevpr sbe gur erag bs n obvfgrebhf naq grzcrfg-gbffrq orq,
jvyy arire raqrne uvzfrys gb gubfr jvgu jubz ur vf guebja va pbagnpg.

Jr yrnir ng 2:30 guvf nsgreabba, ubcvat gung gur gjb envyebnqf znl
pbagvahr gb sbex urer whfg gur fnzr nf gubhtu jr unq erznvarq.




OVYY ALR'F UBEARGF.


Ynfg snyy V qrfverq gb nqq gb zl ener pbyyrpgvba n ynetr ubearg'f arfg.
V unq na raonyzrq gnenaghyn naq ure cbeprynva yvarq arfg, naq V qrfverq
gb nqq gb gurfr gur tenl naq nvel ubzr bs gur ubearg. V cebpherq bar bs
gur ynetr fvmr nsgre pbyq jrngure naq uhat vg va zl pnovarg ol n fgevat.
V sbetbg nobhg vg hagvy guvf fcevat. Jura jnez jrngure pnzr, fbzrguvat
erzvaqrq zr bs vg. V guvax vg jnf n ubearg. Ur wbttrq zl zrzbel va fbzr
jnl naq pnyyrq zl nggragvba gb vg. Zrzbel vf abg ybpngrq jurer V gubhtug
vg jnf. Vg frrzrq nf gubhtu jurarire ur gbhpurq zr ur njnxrarq n
zrzbel--n jnez zrzbel jvgu n erq cynpr nyy nebhaq vg.

Gura fbzr zber ubeargf pnzr naq ortna gb enxr hc byq crefbanyvgvrf. V
erzrzore gung bar bs gurz yvg ba zl hccre yvc. Ur gubhtug vg jnf n
ebfrohq. Jura ur jrag njnl vg ybbxrq yvxr n tynqvbyhf ohyo. V jenccrq n
jrg furrg nebhaq vg gb gnxr bhg gur jnezgu naq erqhpr gur fjryyvat fb
gung V pbhyq tb guebhtu gur sbyqvat-qbbef naq gryy zl jvsr nobhg vg.

Ubeargf yvg nyy bire zr naq jnyxrq nebhaq ba zl crefba. V qvq abg qner
gb fpencr gurz bss, orpnhfr gurl ner fb frafvgvir. Lbh unir gb or irel
thneqrq va lbhe pbaqhpg gbjneq n ubearg.

V erzrzore bapr juvyr V jnf jngpuvat gur ohfl yvggyr ubearg tngurevat
ubarl naq Whar ohtf sebz gur obfbz bs n ebfr, lrnef ntb. V fgveerq uvz
hc jvgu n pyho, zber nf n cenpgvpny wbxr guna nalguvat ryfr, naq ur pnzr
naq yvg ba zl fhaal unve--gung jnf jura V jber zl bja unve--naq ur
jnyxrq nebhaq guebhtu zl tyrnzvat gerffrf dhvgr njuvyr, znxvat genpxf nf
ynetr nf n jngrezryba nyy bire zl urnq. Vs ur unqa'g eha bhg bs genpxf
zl urnq jbhyq unir ybbxrq yvxr n ybnq bs fhzzre fdhnfurf. V erzrzore V
unq gb guhzc zl urnq ntnvafg gur fzbxr ubhfr va beqre gb fznfu uvz, naq
V unq gb pbzo uvz bhg jvgu n svar pbzo naq jrne n jnfgr cncre onfxrg gjb
jrrxf sbe n ung.

Zhpu unf orra fnvq bs gur ubearg, ohg ur unf na bqq, dhnvag jnl nsgre
nyy, gung vf sberire arj.




N GENTRQL.

    Bhg jurer gur oyhr jnirf pbzr naq tb,
      Bhg jurer gur mrculef xvff gur fgenaq,
    Qbja jurer gur qnzc gvqrf roo naq sybj,
      Jurer gur bprna zbaxrlf jvgu gur fnaq,
    Jvyyvnz, gur uhatel, ehfgyrf sbe uvf zrny,
    Fyvz Jvyyvnz, gur ryqrfg, tnguref gur rry.

    Hc jurer gur wbuaal whzc-hcf fzvyr,
      Hc jurer gur terra uvyyf zrrg gur fxl,
    Jurer, bhg sebz ure jvaqbj sbe znal n zvyr,
      Fur jngpurf gur oyhr frn qvzcyvat yvr,
    Gur jvsr bs gur rryvfg, jvgu ivmntr tevz,
    Fvgf va gur tybnzvat naq jngpurf sbe uvz.

    Qbja va gur zbvfg naq zbnavat frn,
      Qbja jurer gur qnl pna arire pbzr,
    Jvgu fgnevat rlrf gung pna arire frr
      Naq yvcf gung jvyy rire pbagvahr qhzo,
    Jvgu rryf va uvf oernfg, va n ynetr jrg jnir,
    Jvyyvnz vf svyyvat n jngrel tenir.

    Hc jurer gur pngavc vf oernguvat uneq,
      Hc jurer gur gnafl vf syrpxrq jvgu qrj,
    Jurer gur irfcre fbsg nf gur bavba crryf
      Jnxraf gur rpubrf gur gjvyvtug guebhtu,
    Gur arj-znqr jvqbj fgvyy jngpurf gur fuber
    Naq fvgf gurer naq jnvgf, nf V fnvq orsber.

    Gurl pbzr naq gryy ure gur cvgvshy gnyr,
      Jvgu gerzoyvat ibvpr naq grne-qvzzrq rlr,
    Gurl jngpu ure purrx tebj fyvtugyl cnyr,
      Lrg jbaqre ng gur pnyz ercyl:
    "Nyy bhe grnef ner ohg vqyr, tragyrzra,
    Tb oevat va gur rryf naq frg uvz ntnva."

[Vyyhfgengvba]




GUR OEBAPB PBJ.

OVYY ALR HAQREGNXRF GB ZVYX URE JURA GUR FVTA VF ABG EVTUG--QVFNFGEBHF
ERFHYGF.


Jura V jnf lbhat naq hfrq gb ebnz nebhaq bire gur pbhagel, tngurevat
jngre-zrybaf va gur qnex bs gur zbba, V hfrq gb guvax V pbhyq zvyx
nalobql'f pbj, ohg V qb abg guvax fb abj. V qb abg zvyx n pbj abj hayrff
gur fvta vf evtug, naq vg unfa'g orra evtug sbe n tbbq znal lrnef.

Gur ynfg pbj V gevrq gb zvyx jnf n pbzzba pbj, obea va bofphevgl; xvaq
bs n frys-znqr pbj. V erzrzore ure oebj jnf ybj, ohg fur jber ure gnvy
uvtu naq fur jnf unhtugl, bu, fb unhtugl.

V znqr n pbzzba-cynpr erznex gb ure, bar gung vf hfrq va gur irel orfg
bs fbpvrgl, bar gung arrq abg unir tvira bssrafr naljurer. V fnvq
"fb"--naq fur "fbrq". Gura V gbyq ure gb "uvfgr"--naq fur uvfgrq. Ohg V
gubhtug fur bireqvq vg. Fur chg gbb zhpu rkcerffvba va vg.

Whfg gura V urneq fbzrguvat penfu guebhtu gur jvaqbj bs gur onea naq
snyy jvgu n qhyy, fvpxravat guhq ba gur bhgfvqr.

Gur arvtuobef pnzr gb frr jung vg jnf gung pnhfrq gur abvfr. Gurl sbhaq
gung V unq qbar vg va trggvat guebhtu gur jvaqbj.

V nfxrq gur arvtuobef vs gur onea jnf fgvyy fgnaqvat. Gurl fnvq vg jnf.
Gura V nfxrq vs gur pbj jnf vawherq zhpu. Gurl fnvq fur frrzrq gb or
dhvgr ebohfg. Gura V erdhrfgrq gurz gb tb va naq pnyz gur pbj n yvggyr
naq frr vs gurl pbhyq trg zl cyht ung bss ure ubeaf.

V nz ohlvat nyy zl zvyx abj bs n zvyx-zna. V fryrpg n tragyr zvyx-zna
jub jvyy abg xvpx naq V srry nf gubhtu V pbhyq gehfg uvz. Gura vs ur
srryf nf gubhtu ur pbhyq gehfg zr, vg vf nyy evtug.




NHGHZA GUBHTUGF.


Gurer pna or abguvat fnqqre guna gur fbyrza uhfu bs angher gung cerprqrf
gur qrngu bs gur lrne. Gur tbyqra tybel bs nhghza, jvgu gur ovyybjl
oebamr naq iryirg nmher bs gur fxvrf nobir gur eblny eborf bs bnx naq
zncyr, orfcrnx gur pybfvat ubhef bs angher'f grrzvat yvsr naq gur fvyrag
snerjryy gb uhznavgl'f tnhmr haqrejrne.

Guhf juvyr angher qbaf ure ertny ebor bs fpneyrg naq tbyq va ubabe bs
gur snerjryy orarsvg gb nhghza, gur fnq-rlrq cbrg uvrf njnl gb n
arvtuobevat pybgurf yvar, naq gur ubhe bs angher'f tenaq oybjbhg qbaf
gur synzvat synaaryf bs uvf sevraq bhg bs erfcrpg sbe gur urpgvp syhfu
bs gur qlvat lrne.

Yrnirf unir gurve gvzr gb snyy, naq fb unf gur cevpr bs pbny. Naq lrg
ubj fnqyl ng inevnapr jvgu qrpnlvat angher vf gur ebohfg pbny znexrg.

Nabgure tybevbhf fhzzre jvgu vgf jrnygu bs cyrnfnag zrzbevrf vf fgberq
njnl nzbat gur nepuvirf bs bhe uvfgbel. Nabgure tybbzl jvagre vf hcba
hf. Gurfr jbaqreshy pbybef gung synzr npebff gur fbsgrarq fxl bs Vaqvna
fhzzre yvxr gur tbel onaare bs eblny pbadhrebe, pbzr ohg gb jnea hf gung
va n srj fubeg jrrxf gur jngre cvcr jvyy or ohefgrq va gur xvgpura naq
gur qrpbengrq jnfuobjy or oebxra.

Jr syvg guebhtu gur qernzl ubhef bs fhzzre yvxr fjvsg-jvatrq ohzoyr orrf
nzvq gur ubarlfhpxyr naq chzcxva oybffbzf, fgbevat njnl, creuncf, n
yvggyr tyhpbfr ubarl naq ohpxjurng cnapnxrf sbe gur shgher, ohg nyy ng
bapr, yvxr n arjfcncre guvrs va gur avtug, gur xvat bs sebfg naq evcr
zryybj puvyoynvaf vf hcba hf, naq jr pebhpu orarngu gur jvagel oynfg naq
uhzc bhe fcvany pbyhza hc vagb gur pevfc nve yvxr n Grknf fgrre gung unf
gubhtugyrffyl fjnyybjrq n enj pnpghf.

Yvsr vf bar pbagvahrq ebhaq bs nygreangvir wblf naq fbeebjf. Gb-qnl jr
ner ba gur gbc jnir bs cebfcrevgl naq jnezvat bhefryirf va gur tynq
fhayvtug bs cyragl, naq gb-zbeebj jr ner pnfg qbja naq qrcerffrq
svanapvnyyl, naq unir gb fgnaq bss gur jnfure-jbzna sbe bhe pyrna fuveg
be fgnl ng ubzr sebz gur bcren.

Gur Abirzore fxl nyernql sebjaf qbja hcba hf, naq vgf sebmra grnef ortva
gb snyy. Gur yvggyr oveqf unir uhfurq gurve yvggyr ynl. Fb unf gur
sngvthrq ura. Bayl n yvggyr juvyr, naq gur lnjavat punfz va gur pbyq,
pnyz srngherf bs gur Gunaxftvivat ghexrl jvyy or svyyrq jvgu ibyhcghbhf
fghssvat naq gura frjrq hc. Gur sybevq srngherf bs gur cbyltnzbhf
tbooyre jvyy or jenccrq va fnqarff, naq penaoreel cvr jvyy or n oheqra,
sbe gur irny phgyrg tbrgu gb vgf ybat ubzr, naq gur vpr pernz serrmre vf
oebxra va gur jbbqubhfr.

Bu, gvzr! gubh onyqurnqrq cryvpna jvgu gur irarenoyr pbeaphggre naq gur
frpbaq unaq ubhe-tynff, gubh cynlrfg fgenatr cenaxf hcba gur puvyqera bs
zra. Ab bar jbhyq guvax, gb ybbx ng gul ovyvbhf pbhagranapr naq fgber
grrgu, gung va gul obal obfbz yhexrq fhpu rppragevp fpurzrf.

Gur puhool obl, jubfr qnatre fvtany unatf fnqyl guebhtu gur ynggvpr-jbex
bs uvf cnagf, xabjf gung Gvzr, jub jnvgf sbe ab zna, jvyy bar qnl, vs jr
fgehttyr urebvpnyyl ba, tvir uvz xabjyrqtr naq fhfcraqref, naq n fbyvq
tvey, naq rkcrevrapr naq fbsg juvgr zhfgnpur naq riraghnyyl n ybj tenir
va gur inyyrl orarngu gur fvtuvat ryzf naq gur jrrcvat jvyybj, jurer, va
gur zvfgl gjvyvtug bs gur lrne, abvfryrffyl hcba uvf oernfg funyy snyy
gur qrns yrns, juvyr gur fvyrag grne bs gur tenl nhghzany fxl jvyy pbzr
naq fvax vagb gur lryybj tenff nobir uvf urnq.

    OVYY ALR.




OVYY ALR'F NQIVPR ONT.

NAKVBHF DHRFGVBAF NAFJRERQ.

CERFVQRAG PYRIRYNAQ'F PUVYYVAT ARTYRPG BS NA RQVGBE QRABHAPRQ--GUR JBZNA
VA GUR FYRRCVAT PBNPU--PNYZ ERNFBAVAT QRNYG BHG.


NAFJREF GB PBEERFCBAQRAGF.

_"Tubhyvfu Tyrr," Ohplehf, B._, jevgrf: "Sbe gjb lrnef V unir orra
fraqvat n pbcl bs zl cncre, gur 'Cnyynqvhz naq Bofreire' gb Cerfvqrag
Pyrirynaq. Nygubhtu V unir pevgvpvfrq uvf nqzvavfgengvba rqvgbevnyyl
frireny gvzrf, V unir qbar fb jvgu gur orfg bs zbgvirf naq pregnvayl sbe
uvf tbbq. Vs ur jnf natel jvgu zr sbe guvf, ur fheryl unf arire fb
rkcerffrq uvzfrys gb zr, ohg ynfg Nhthfg V frag uvz n ovyy sbe uvf cncre
pbirevat gjb lrnef naq bire, naq ur unf abg nafjrerq zl yrggre hc gb
guvf qngr. Jvyy lbh nafjre guvf guebhtu gur pbyhzaf bs gur _Qnvyl Arjf_
gryyvat zr jung V unq orggre qb, naq fb gung bguref jub znl or va gur
fnzr svk pna haqrefgnaq jung lbhe nqivpr jbhyq or va fhpu n pnfr?"

Fgbc uvf cncre. Ol nyy zrnaf qrcevir uvz bs gur cncre. Lbh fubhyq unir
qbar fb orsber. Gura lbh jvyy srry cresrpgyl serr gb pevgvpvfr uvf
nqzvavfgengvba gb gur ovggre raq.

Abguvat fgnegyrf n cerfvqrag nal zber guna gb fuhg bss n cncre gung ur
unf orpbzr nggnpurq gb. Ze. Pyrirynaq jvyy tb bhg naq cnj nebhaq va gur
jrg tenff va sebag bs gur juvgr ubhfr, naq svanyyl ur jvyy tb va,
jbaqrevat jung unf orpbzr bs gur Cnyynqvhz naq Bofreire. Va n jrrx be
gjb ur jvyy erzvg naq gryy lbh gb pbagvahr fraqvat gur cncre. Qb abg
pevgvpvfr uvf nqzvavfgengvba gbb frireryl gvyy lbh frr jurgure ur vf
tbvat gb erzvg be abg.

_Rneyl Ebfr, Znaxngb, Zvaa._, jevgrf: "Vf vg cebcre gb znex cnffntrf va
n obbx bs cbrzf ybnarq gb bar ol n lbhat zna va jubz bar srryf na
vagrerfg, be fubhyq bar or pbagrag jvgu fvzcyl rkcerffvat bar'f
nqzvengvba bs pregnva cnffntrf va gur obbx?"

V guvax gur ynggre cyna jbhyq or cersrenoyr, Ebfr. V nz fher gung lbhat
ynqvrf znxr n terng zvfgnxr jura gurl znex gur rnearfg naq vzcnffvbarq
cnffntrf va n obbx bs cbrzf orybatvat gb nabgure. V bapr ybnarq n obbx
bs cbrzf jevggra ol n tragyrzna anzrq Fjvaohear. Va guvf obbx Ze.
Fjvaohear unq frireny gvzrf rkcerffrq uvzfrys nf orvat ivbyragyl va ybir
jvgu nyy gur jbexf bs angher, rfcrpvnyyl gubfr crbcyr jub qvssrerq jvgu
uvz va gur znggre bs frk. Ur jebgr fb syhragyl naq fb rnearfgyl
ertneqvat gur znggre bs ybir gung V ybnarq gur obbx gb n lbhat ynql,
ubcvat gung fur jbhyq gnxr guvf nf n ivpnevbhf rkcerffvba bs zl
fragvzragf. Vg jnf n pbfgyl obbx, naq fb jura vg pnzr onpx jvgu Ze.
Fjvaohear'f fragvzragf rzcunfvmrq ol zrnaf bs n oyhr crapvy, naq uvf
rnearfg gubhtugf haqrefpberq jvgu n pebpurg ubbx, chapghngrq jvgu grnef,
naq fgnoorq jvgu n unve-cva, V erterggrq vg irel zhpu. V jnf yrq gb
oryvrir, nyfb, ol erernqvat gur obbx, gung fur jnf va gur unovg bs
crehfvat vg ng gur oernxsnfg gnoyr, naq gung fur jnf n ivpgvz bs gur
bzryrg unovg.

Qb abg znex n obeebjrq obbx hayrff lbh unir zber sevraqf guna lbh pna
ninvy lbhefrys bs.

_Fninag, Gnvyubyg, Vaq._: Lbh pna trg Vaqvna neebj-urnqf abj nyzbfg
naljurer rkprcg ba gur sebagvre. N tbbq unaq-znqr Vaqvna neebj urnq vf
abj znqr va Pbaarpgvphg, naq gur cevprf ner abg rkbeovgnag. V oryvrir
gung vs lbh pna trg znahsnpgheref' engrf, qryvirerq ba obneq gur pnef ng
Arj Unira, lbh pna frpher rabhtu Vaqvna neebj-urnqf sbe $25 gb serfpb
gur fvqrf bs n ubhfr. Frr gung gur anzr bs gur znahsnpghere vf ohearq va
gur funax bs rnpu.

Lbh jvyy unir ab zber gebhoyr va frphevat Vaqvna fxhyyf. Gur znahsnpgher
bs Vaqvna fxhyyf unf abg neevirq ng gung qrterr bs cresrpgvba juvpu jr
ubcr sbe vg va gur shgher. Lbh pna trg na Vaqvna fxhyy znqr bs pryyhybvq
abj gung ybbxf dhvgr avpr naq tunfgyl, be lbh pna frpher n orne'f abfr
znqr bs uneq ehoore, jvgu cberf va vg naq yvggyr qebcf bs crefcvengvba
fgnaqvat bhg ba vg. Gurfr abfrf unir orra hfrq jvgu terng fhpprff va
frphevat obhagl va gur Arj Ratynaq fgngrf, naq frireny pbhagvrf va Znvar
unir n ynetr fgbpx bs ehoore orne abfrf ba juvpu gurl unir cnvq ynetr
obhagvrf, naq juvpu gurl jbhyq abj fryy ng n terng fnpevsvpr.

Nmgrp cbggrel rkpningrq sebz byq zbhaqf va gur fbhgujrfg pna abj or
chepunfrq va nal ynetr pvgl be znqr gb beqre ng gur yrnqvat cbggrevrf bs
gur pbhagel.

_Avntnea Cyhzzre, Ghgrjyre'f Pebffvat, Graa._, nfxf: "Vf vg cebcre gb
hfr gur sbyybjvat rkcerffvba, juvpu jnf znqr va bhe pbyberq qrongvat
fbpvrgl guerr jrrxf ntb? Vs lbh jvyy nafjre guvf vadhvel lbh jvyy pbasre
n oyrffvat ba gjb lbhat ynqvrf jub'f tbg n org hc ba gur dhrfgvba. Gur
rkcerffvba jr nterr jnf nf sbyybjf:

'Ur'f ragvgyrq gb cnl zr sbe gurz cnve bs yvprafr.'

"V pynvz gung gur jbeq 'gurz' fubhyq or 'gubfr,' juvyr zl sevraq Zvff
Obarfrggr Wnpxfba fnlf gung gur fragrapr vf pbeerpg. Juvpu vf
vapbeerpg?"

Jurer obgu unir qbar fb jryy vg vf uneq gb fnl juvpu vf gur zber
vapbeerpg. V jvyy jvguubyq zl bcvavba gvyy lbhe qrongvat fbpvrgl chgf va
na riravat qribgrq gb gur qvfphffvba bs guvf dhrfgvba. Cyrnfr yrg zr
xabj jura vg jvyy bpphe, nf V jbhyq yvxr gb or gurer.

_Rgvdhrggr, Puvpntb, Vyy._, nfxf: "Jvyy lbh nafjre guebhtu gur pbyhzaf
bs gur _Qnvyl Arjf_ jung erzrql lbh jbhyq cerfpevor sbe gur terng
ahvfnapr juvyr geniryvat bs orvat pbzcryyrq gb jnvg nyy gur sberabba sbe
gur srznyr svraq jub zbabcbyvmrf bar raq bs gur fyrrcvat pne unys bs gur
gvzr naq gur bgure raq bs gur pne gur bgure unys. V nz n ynql, naq
abguvat graqf gb qvfpbhentr zl rssbegf va gelvat gb pbagvahr fhpu yvxr
guvf pbafgnag pbagnpg jvgu gur nirentr srznyr oehgr jub obygf urefrys
vagb gur ynqvrf' qerffvat ebbz va n fyrrcre naq erznvaf gurer nyy gur
sberabba pnypvzvavat ure checyr abfr naq fgevivat gb ornhgvsl ure
punbgvp srngherf. Qb gryy hf jung lbh jbhyq fhttrfg."

Gung vf n dhrfgvba V unir orra pnyyrq hcba gb frggyr orsber, ohg V nz
fgvyy jbeelvat bire vg. V qb abg guvax jr bhtug gb sevggre njnl bhe gvzr
ba gur gnevss naq bgure erzbgr znggref hagvy jr unir, bapr sbe nyy, zrg
naq frggyrq guvf ivgny dhrfgvba juvpu yvrf fb arne gb rirel urneg.

V unir frra n ynetr jbzna gnxr ure grrgu va bar unaq naq n funjy-fgenc
shyy bs unve va gur bgure naq nqwbhea gb gur ynqvrf' qerffvat ebbz ng
Pnzc Qbhtynf naq svanyyl rzretr gurersebz, jvgu n fzbbpu bs cercnerq
punyx bire rnpu rlr, ng Jvaban. Nyy gung gvzr unys n qbmra ynqvrf va gur
pne tanjrq gurve haqre yvcf naq gevrq gb ybbx unccl. V unir xabja n
gvzvq lbhat ynql gb ybfr ure oernxsnfg orpnhfr guvf fnzr bterff, jvgu
oevfgyrf nybat gur onpx bs ure arpx, nf hfhny zbirq vagb gur
qerffvat-ebbz naq yvirq gurer gvyy gur genva ernpurq vgf qrfgvangvba naq
gur qvavat-pne jnf qrgnpurq.

Fbzr qnl guvf qerffvat-ebbz jvyy or znqr ba gur cyna bs n ynetr
pbapregvan, bcrengrq ol zrnaf bs pybpxjbex, naq nsgre guvf irarenoyr
ulran unf ynhaqrerq urefrys naq cevzcrq naq ornhgvsvrq naq hcubyfgrerq
urefrys naq jnkrq ure zhfgnpur, naq vafhygrq gur cyngr-tynff zveebe sbe
na ubhe be gjb ol pbafgnagyl pbzcryyvat vg gb ersyrpg ure srngherf, gur
jnyyf bs gur ncnegzrag jvyy tenqhnyyl nccebnpu rnpu bgure, naq jura gung
jbzna vf erzbirq fur jvyy ybbx yvxr gur onggyr bs Trgglfohet.




ZE. FJRRARL'F PNG.


Eboreg Bezfol Fjrrarl vf n qehttvfg bs Fg. Cnhy; naq gubhtu n erprag
puebabybtvpny erpbeq erirnyf gur snpg gung ur vf n qverpg qrfpraqnag bs
n fher-rabhtu xvat, naq gubhtu gurer vf zvtugl tbbq checyr, eblny oybbq
va uvf irvaf gung qngrf onpx jurer xvatf hfrq gb unir fbzrguvat gb qb gb
rnea gurve fnynel, ur tbrf evtug ba jvgu uvf erthyne ohfvarff, fryyvat
qehtf ng gur terng fnpevsvpr juvpu qehttvfgf jvyy znxr fbzrgvzrf va
beqre gb cynpr gurve tbbqf jvguva gur ernpu bs nyy.

Nf fbba nf V yrnearq gung Ze. Fjrrarl unq oneryl rfpncrq orvat n pebjarq
urnq, V tbg npdhnvagrq jvgu uvz naq gevrq gb purre uvz hc, naq V gbyq
uvz gung crbcyr jbhyqa'g ubyq uvz va nal jnl erfcbafvoyr, naq gung, nf
vg unqa'g fubja vgfrys va uvf snzvyl sbe lrnef, ur zvtug creuncf svanyyl
jrne vg bhg.

Ur vf n zvtugl cyrnfnag zna, nalubj, naq lbh pna unir whfg nf zhpu sha
jvgu uvz nf lbh pbhyq jvgu n zna jub qvqa'g unir nal eblny oybbq va uvf
irvaf. Lbh jbhyq or jvgu uvz sbe qnlf ba n svfuvat gevc naq arire abgvpr
vg ng nyy.

Ohg V jnf tbvat gb fcrnx zber va cnegvphyne bs Zv. Fjrrarl'f png. Ze.
Fjrrarl unq n ynetr png anzrq Qe. Znel Jnyxre, bs juvpu ur jnf irel
sbaq. Qe. Znel Jnyxre erznvarq ng gur qeht fgber nyy gur gvzr, naq jnf
xabja nyy bire Fg. Cnhy nf n dhvrg naq erfreirq png. Vs Qe. Znel Jnyxre
gbbx va gur gbja nsgre bssvpr ubhef abobql frrzrq gb xabj nalguvat nobhg
vg. Fur jbhyq or nebhaq oevtug naq purreshy gur arkg zbeavat, naq nggraq
gb ure qhgvrf ng gur fgber whfg nf gubhtu abguvat jungrire unq rire
unccrarq.

Bar qnl ynfg fhzzre Ze. Fjrrarl yrsg n ynetr cyngr bs syl-cncre jvgu
jngre ba vg va gur jvaqbj, ubcvat gb tngure va n srj dhnegf bs syvrf va
n qrprnfrq fgngr. Qe. Znel Jnyxre hfrq gb tb gb guvf jvaqbj qhevat gur
nsgreabba naq ybbx bhg ba gur ohfl fgerrg juvyr fur pnyyrq hc cyrnfnag
zrzbevrf bs ure cnfg yvsr. Gung nsgreabba fur gubhtug fur jbhyq pnyy hc
fbzr zber zrzbevrf, fb fur jrag bire ba gur pbhagre, naq sebz gurer
whzcrq qbja ba gur jvaqbj-fvyy, ynaqvat jvgu nyy sbhe srrg va gur cyngr
bs syl-cncre.

Ng svefg fur ertneqrq vg nf n wbxr naq gerngrq gur znggre irel yvtugyl,
ohg yngre ba fur bofreirq gung gur syl-cncre fghpx gb ure srrg jvgu
terng granpvgl bs checbfr. Gubfr jub unir arire frra gur ybbx bs
fhecevfr naq qrrc fbeebj gung n png jrnef jura fur svaqf urefrys tyhrq
gb n jubyr furrg bs syl-cncre pna abg shyyl nccerpvngr gur jnl Qe. Znel
Jnyxre sryg. Fur qvq abg qnfu jvyqyl guebhtu n $150 cyngr-tynff jvaqbj,
nf fbzr pngf jbhyq unir qbar. Fur pbagebyyrq urefrys naq npgrq va gur
pbbyrfg znaare, gubhtu lbh pbhyq unir frra gung zragnyyl fur fhssrerq
vagrafryl. Fur fng qbja n zbzrag gb zber shyyl bhgyvar n cyna sbe gur
shgher. Va qbvat fb fur znqr n terng zvfgnxr. Gur trfgher erfhygrq va
tyhvat gur syl-cncre gb ure crefba va fhpu n jnl gung gur rqtr ghearq hc
oruvaq ure va gur zbfg noehcg znaare naq pnhfrq ure terng vapbairavrapr.

Fbzr bar ng gung gvzr ynhturq va n pbnefr naq urnegyrff jnl, naq V jvfu
lbh pbhyq unir frra gur ybbx bs cnva gung Qe. Znel Jnyxre tnir uvz.

Jura fur jrag njnl, fur qvq abg tb nebhaq gur cerfpevcgvba pnfr nf gur
erfg bs hf qvq, ohg fgebyyrq guebhtu gur zvqqyr bs vg, naq fb ba bhg
guebhtu gur tynff qbbe ng gur erne bs gur fgber. Jr qvq abg frr ure tb
guebhtu gur tynff qbbe, ohg jr sbhaq cvrprf bs syl-cncre naq she ba gur
enttrq rqtrf bs n ynetr ncregher va gur tynff, naq jr xvaq bs whzcrq ng
gur pbapyhfvba gung Qe. Znel Jnyxre unq gnxra gung qverpgvba va ergvevat
sebz gur ebbz.

Qe. Znel Jnyxre arire erghearq gb Fg. Cnhy, naq ure rknpg jurernobhgf
ner abg xabja, gubhtu rirel rssbeg jnf znqr gb svaq ure. Sentzragf bs
syl-cncre naq oevaqyr unve jrer sbhaq nf sne jrfg nf gur Lryybjfgbar
Angvbany Cnex, naq nf sne abegu nf gur Oevgvfu yvar, ohg gur Qbpgbe
urefrys jnf abg sbhaq. Zl bja gurbel vf gung vs fur ghearq ure obj gb
gur jrfg fb nf gb pngpu gur fgebat rnfgreyl tnyr ba ure dhnegre, jvgu
gur fnvy fur unq frg naq ure gnvy cbvagvat qverpgyl gbjneq gur mravgu,
gur punaprf sbe Qe. Znel Jnyxre'f vzzrqvngr erghea ner rkgerzryl fyvz.




OVYY ALR'F YRGGRE.

GUR UHZBEVFG JEVGRF SEBZ UVF JVAGRE ERFBEG VA UVF HFHNYYL UNCCL IRVA BA
INEVBHF GBCVPF.


NFURIVYYR, A. P.--Nf fbba nf V fnj va gur cncref gung zl urnygu jnf
snvyvat, V qrpvqrq gb jvat zl jnl Fbhgu sbe gur jvagre. Fb V pybfrq hc
zl rfgnoyvfuzrag ng Fyvccrelryzuhefg, gbyq gur tnzr-xrrcre abg gb
zbaxrl jvgu gur cerfreirf naq pnzr urer, jurer V nz abj jevgvat. Ng
svefg vg frrzf bqq gb zr gung V fubhyq or jevgvat sebz jurer V abj nz,
ohg gur zber V guvax vg bire gur orggre V nz erpbapvyrq gb vg, sbe jung
orggre cynpr pna n zna fryrpg sebz juvpu gb jevgr n yrggre guna gur
cbvag jurer ur vf ybpngrq ng gur gvzr.

Nfurivyyr vf na ragrecevfvat pbfzbcbyvgna pvgl bs fvk be frira gubhfnaq
crbcyr naq n ivfvgvat cbchyngvba qhevat gur frnfba bs fvkgl gubhfnaq
zber. Vg vf fvghngrq va gur cvpgherfdhr inyyrl bs gur Serapu Oebbq naq
orgjrra gur Oyhr Evqtr naq gur Nyyrtunavrf. Nfurivyyr vf gur zrgebcbyvf
bs Jrfgrea Abegu Pnebyvan, naq unf ab pbzcrgvgvba arnere guna Xabkivyyr,
Graa., bar uhaqerq naq fvkgl zvyrf njnl, naq, va snpg, abg va nal jnl
pbzcrgvat jvgu Nfurivyyr, sbe vg vf va nabgure pbhagl nygbtrgure.

Guvf ertvba bs pbhagel vf sebz 2,000 gb 7,000 srrg nobir frn yriry naq
vf, va snpg, n zbhagnva ertvba jvgu n fbhgurea rkcbfher.

Fgenatr fgbevrf ner gbyq urer bs crbcyr jub pnzr svir, gra, gjragl be
zber lrnef ntb, jvgu n ivrj bs qlvat urer, ohg jub nsgrejneq qrpvqrq gb
yvir ba, naq gurl ner yvivat lrg. Bar zna jub jnf n fheivibe bs gur
Fnzfb-Cuvyvfgvar jne, vs V nz abg zvfgnxra, pnzr urer ng ynfg sebz gur
zbhgu bs gur Nznmba, shyy bs znynevn. Ur unq orra xvaq bs "qbja va gur
zbhgu"--bs gur Nznmba sbe fbzr lrnef, naq gurl fnl uvf yvire ybbxrq
yvxr n ehoore qbbe-zng naq uvf fxva jnf yvxr gur pbire bs n fha-xvffrq
unz.

Ur cvpxrq hc uvf fcvevgf urer naq erpbirerq uvf lbhgu, naq gubhtu ur jnf
irel byq jura ur pnzr, ur vf fgvyy byqre abj naq va cerggl tbbq urnygu.
V jrag gb frr uvz gur bgure qnl. Ur vf fb byq gung gurer vf zbff ba gur
abegu fvqr bs uvz naq uvrebtylcuvpf ba uvf srrg. Jura V znqr fbzr
snprgvbhf erznexf gb uvz naq gbyq uvz n fgbel V unq erpragyl npdhverq,
ur oevtugrarq hc n tbbq qrny naq rzvggrq n qel, pnpxyvat ynhtu yvxr n
klybcubar, naq fnvq gung ur oryvrirq ur rawblrq gung fgbel whfg nf jryy
nf ur qvq jura gurl hfrq gb gryy vg va gur evsyr-cvgf va sebag bs Gebl.

Ur fnvq ur yvxrq Nfurivyyr irel zhpu vaqrrq.

Nfurivyyr vf pnyyrq gur Fjvgmreynaq bs Nzrevpn. Vg unf orra zl oyrffrq
cevivyrtr qhevat gur cnfg gjragl lrnef gb ivrj arneyl nyy gur
Fjvgmreynaqf bs Nzrevpn gung ner urer, ohg guvf vf shyyl gur rdhny vs
abg gur fhcrevbe bs nal bs gurz.

Lbh pna pyvzo gb gur gbc bs Ornhpngpure Zbhagnva naq frr n ornhgvshy
fvtug va nal qverpgvba, naq ba zbfg nal qnl bs gur lrne. Rirel jurer gur
rlr erfgf ba n oebnq fjrrc bs qnex-oyhr pyvzngr. Hc va gur tbetrf, haqre
gur juvfcrevat cvarf, nybat gur eubqbqraqeba obeqrerq znetvaf bs gur
Fjnaababn, be gur Serapu Oebbq, bhg guebhtu gur Tnc, naq qbja gur
gubhfnaq zbhagnva oebbxf, lbh jvyy svaq rabhtu pyvzngr va gjragl zvahgrf
gb ynfg n jrrx.

Gur puvrs cebqhpgf bs Jrfgrea Abegu Pnebyvan ner fzbxvat gbonppb naq
pyvzngr. Vs lbh qb abg yvxr gur pyvzngr lbh pna xrrc lbhefrys gb gur
fzbxvat gbonppb.

Urer lbh jvyy svaq byq Ze. Bmbar jvgu uvf pbng bss naq n srngure qhfgre
va uvf unaq, cercnerq gb qhfg gur pbojrof sebz gur pngnpbzof bs gur
nfguzngvp be gur pbafhzcgvir. Gurer vf rabhtu pyvzngr jnfgrq urer rirel
lrne gb fhccyl n pvgl gur fvmr bs Puvpntb. Zberbire, gurer vf abj n
unaqfbzr ubgry urer pnyyrq gur Onggrel Cnex--gung unf orra shyy rire
fvapr vg jnf ohvyg naq lbh pna trg tbbq fnqqyr ubefrf, pneevntrf be
qbaxrlf ng ernfbanoyr engrf va gbja.

Gur qbaxrl vf dhvgr n srngher bs guvf pbhagel nf ur vf ncg gb or bs nyy
zbhagnva pbhagevrf va snpg. V unir arire nffbpvngrq jvgu n zber travny
heonar be ersvarq qbaxrl guna jr unir urer. Ur vf trarenyyl n fbsg zbhfr
pbybe, nobhg avar unaqf uvtu, naq qryvtugf va znxvat fznyy, rybatngrq
sbbg-cevagf ba gur fnaqf bs gvzr.

Guvf fznyy navzny bs gur zbhagnvaf vf serdhragyl nppbzcnavrq ol n ebohfg
ohg cbbeyl-zbqhyngrq ibvpr. Vg vf irel cngurgvp naq trarenyyl arrqf n
yvggyr bvy ba vg. Gur Abegu Pnebyvan qbaxrl yvxr gur Pbybenqb oheeb,
yvirf gb n terng ntr. Ur gura qvrf.

Nfurivyyr unf fcyraqvq jngre jbexf fhccylvat svefg-pynff jngre gb gubfr
jub jvfu gb hfr guvf cbchyne syhvq; ryrpgevp yvtugf nyy bire gur pvgl, n
fgerrg envyjnl betnavmrq jvgu vgf zbarl chg hc gb pbafgehpg vg arkg
fhzzre, svefg-pynff puhepurf, fpubbyf naq pbyyrtrf, jryy fhccyvrq
znexrgf jvgu zbqrengr cevprf, naq ybgf bs trahvar nggenpgvbaf orfvqr gur
pyvzngr. Shry naq juvfxrl ner nobhg gur fnzr gung gurl ner va Puvpntb,
fb n zna arrq abg fhssre urer cebivqrq ur unf n zbqrengr vapbzr.

Gur fcbegfzna znl fcbeg urer jvgu vzchavgl, naq gur natyre znl nyfb
gevnathyne erynkngvba.

Zbbafuvar juvfxl vf nyfb cebqhprq urer va gur zbhagnvaf, gubhtu va n
pehqr jnl, naq irel dhvrgyl. Abar bs gur zbbafuvaref nqiregvfr zhpu va
gur cncref. Gurl qb abg pner sbe n ovt eha bs genqr, ohg frrz pbagrag gb
erznva va bofphevgl. Fbzrgvzrf, ubjrire, gurve jbex nggenpgf gur
nggragvba bs cebzvarag crbcyr jub pbzr bhg naq pnyy ba gurz jvgu
fubg-thaf naq ertergf.

Gura gur zbbafuvare qbrf uvf qvfgvyyrel hc va n ancxva naq tbrf njnl
vagb gur cevzriny sberfg. Fbzr lrnef ntb n cnegl bs erirahr bssvpref
uhagrq bhg bar bs gurfr nzngrhe qvfgvyyref naq punfrq uvz hc gur fvqr bs
gur zbhagnva, jurer gurl fheebhaqrq naq pncgherq uvz jvgu uvf qvfgvyyrel
ba uvf onpx, yvxr n Onopbpx sver-rkgvathvfure, naq fgvyy jnez.

Gur bssvpre, va uvf ercbeg bs gur pncgher, ersreerq gb vg nf n fgvyy
uhag, jurerhcba uvf pbzzvffvba jnf cebzcgyl eribxrq. Gur zna jub gevrf
gb unir nal sha jvgu gur cerfrag Nqzvavfgengvba zhfg unir uvf
erfvtangvba jurer ur pna chg uvf unaq ba vg ng n zbzrag'f jneavat.




QRPYVARQ JVGU GUNAXF.

OVYY ALR CBYVGRYL ERSHFRF GUR WBO BS XVAT BS OHYTNEVN.

UR TVIRF UVF ERNFBAF SBE GUR QRPYVANGVBA NAQ GUEBJF VA PUHAXF BS
URNIL-JRVTUG NQIVPR--NQIVFNOVYVGL BS SBEZVAT N EBLNY GENQRF-HAVBA.


Ovyy Alr unf sheavfurq gb gur _Jbeyq_ gur sbyybjvat pbcl bs n pnoyr
qvfcngpu whfg sbejneqrq gb gur Nyyvrq Cbjref bs Rhebcr:

FYVCCRELRYZUHEFG, UHQFBA, JVF.--_Gb gur Nyyvrq Cbjref, pner bs Ybeq
Fnyvfohel._ Tragyrzra: Lbhe snibe bs erprag qngr ertneqvat zl npprcgnapr
bs gur Ohytnevna guebar, juvpu vf abj inpnag naq sbe erag, va juvpu abgr
lbh graqre zr gur hfr bs fnvq guebar sbe bar lrne, jvgu gur cevivyrtr bs
guerr, vf ng unaq. Lbh nyfb fgngr gung gur Nyyvrq Cbjref ner abg
snibenoyr gb Cevapr Avpubynf naq gung lbh jbhyq cersre n qnex ubefr.
Ybbxvat bire gur ragver yvfg bs bofpher zra, vg jbhyq frrz lbh unir
orra hanoyr gb svk hcba n zna jub unf znqr n orggre fubjvat va guvf yvar
guna V unir.

Juvyr V gunax lbh sbe guvf xvaq bssre bs n guebar gung unf, nf lbh
fgngr, orra arjyl ersvggrq naq ersheavfurq guebhtubhg, V zhfg qrpyvar vg
sbe ernfbaf juvpu V jvyy gel gb tvir va zl bja ebhtu, hacbyvfurq jnl.

Va gur svefg cynpr V ernq va gur qvfcngpurf gb-qnl gung Ehffvn vf
zbovyvmvat ure gebbcf, naq V qb abg jnag nalguvat gb qb jvgu n pbhagel
gung jvyy gerng vgf fbyqvref va gung jnl. Gebbcf unir pregnva evtugf nf
jryy nf gubfr jub unir fbhtug gur cyrnfnagre jnyxf bs crnpr.

Gung vf abg nyy. V qb abg pner gb ragre vagb n fdhnooyr va juvpu V nz
abg vagrerfgrq. Arvgure qb V pner gb tb gb Ohytnevn va gur pncnpvgl bs n
pnecrg-ont zbanepu sebz gur gra-prag pbhagre, jrnevat n obvyre-veba
birepbng ol qnl naq n fgno-cebbs pbefrg ng avtug. V unir nyjnlf orra va
snibe bs Ohytnevn'f fryrpgvba bs n zbanepu _ivin ibpr_ be _ibk cbchyv_,
juvpurire lbh guvax jbhyq ybbx gur orfg va cevag.

V ungr gb frr n zbanepu va ubg jngre nyy gur gvzr naq guerngravat gb
noqvpngr. Fhccbfvat ur qbrf noqvpngr, jung tbbq jvyy gung qb, jura ur
yrnirf n jvqbj jvgu abguvat ohg n frpbaq-unaq guebar naq n pebja gjb
fvmrf gbb fznyy sbe uvf fhpprffbe? V unir nyjnlf fnvq, naq V fgvyy fnl,
gung abguvat pna or zber cvgvshy guna gur fvtug bs n ybiryl dhrra jubfr
uhfonaq, va n jvyq seraml bs erzbefr, unf noqvpngrq uvzfrys.

Abguvat, V ercrng, pna or fnqqre guna guvf cvpgher bs n qrfregrq dhrra,
yrsg uvtu naq qel, jvgubhg zrnaf, sbeprq ng ynfg gb tb gb gur
cnjaoebxref jvgu n yvggyr cyngrq, syhgrq pebja jvgu enoovg-fxva rne-gnof
ba vg!

Jr ner cebar gb oryvrir gung n zbanepu unf abguvat gb qb ohg vffhr n
hxnfr be n znaqnzhf naq gung ur jvyy gura unir nyy gur shaqf ur jnagf;
ohg fhpu vf abg gur pnfr. Ybgf bs bhe zbfg fhpprffshy zbanepuf ner
yvnoyr gb or biregnxra nal lrne ol n ybat, pbyq jvagre naq sbhaq nf yngr
nf Puevfgznf ervtavat va gurve fhzzre fprcgref.

V nz vapyvarq nyfb gb urfvgngr nobhg npprcgvat gur Ohytnevna guebar sbe
nabgure ernfba--V qb abg pner gb or qrcbfrq jura V jnag gb qb fbzrguvat
ryfr. V unir unq zl qrcbfvgvba gnxra frireny gvzrf naq vg qvq abg ybbx
yvxr zr rvgure gvzr.

V guvax gung lbh zbanepuf bhtug gb fgnaq ol rnpu bgure zber. Vs lbh
jbhyq sbez n fbpvrgl bs serr naq vaqrcraqrag zbanepuf gurer va Rhebcr,
jurer lbh ner fb cyragl, lbh pbhyq unir n tbbq gvzr naq rirel yvggyr
juvyr lbh pbhyq envfr lbhe fnynevrf vs lbh jbexrq vg evtug.

Abj lbh chyy naq unhy rnpu bgure nyy gur gvzr naq xrrc lbhefryirf va
ubg jngre qnl naq avtug. Gung'f ab jnl sbe n qlanfgl nal zber guna nal
bar ryfr. Vg vzcnvef lbhe hfrshyarff naq svyyf bhe gryrtencuvp pbyhzaf
shyy bs anzrf gung jr pna abg cebabhapr. Rirel yvggyr juvyr jr unir gb
cnl gur bcrengbe ng guvf raq bs gur pnoyr gra qbyynef sbe jevgvat va n
encvq, sybjvat unaq gung "zrnajuvyr Ehffvn jvyy pbagvahr gb qvfertneq
gur npgf bs gur Fboenawr."

Jul fubhyq n terng pbhagel yvxr Ehffvn tb nobhg gelvat gb znxr gebhoyr
jvgu n ybj-cevprq Fboenawr! V guvax gung n pybfre nyyvnapr bs pebjarq
urnqf, jubfr vagrerfgf ner vqragvpny, jbhyq pregnvayl eryvrir gur
zbabgbal bs znal n ybat, grqvbhf ervta. Vs V jrer gb npprcg gur guebar
bs Ohytnevn, juvpu vf abg yvxryl, fb ybat nf zl tbbq evtug nez pna fgvyy
wrex n syhrag pebff-phg fnj va gur Ratyvfu gbathr, V jbhyq sbez n
flaqvpngr bs zbanepuf jvgu tevcf, cnff-jbeqf, rkcynangvbaf naq fvtanyf;
rirel fprcgre jbhyq unir n pbagenygb juvfgyr va gur ohgg raq juvpu pbhyq
or hfrq nf n fvta bs qvfgerff, juvyr gur bgure raq pbhyq unir n pbex va
vg, naq gura fgrrevat n gbggrevat qlanfgl qbja guebhtu gur qvz ivfgn bs
pehzoyvat praghevrf jbhyq abg or fb vexfbzr nf vg abj vf.

Nf vg vf abj, guerr be sbhe nyyvrq cbjref nfx n zna gb yrnir uvf
ohfvarff naq fdhng ba n pbyq, uneq guebar sbe n zrer cvggnapr, naq gura
whfg nf ur ortvaf gb yrg uvf juvfxref tebj naq yrneaf gb qbqtr n ovt
cbeprynva obzo gubfr fnzr nyyvrq cbjref whzc ba gbc bs uvz nyy fcenqqyrq
bhg naq nfx uvz sbe uvf qrcbfvgvba. Gung vf ab jnl gb gerng na nzngrhe
zbanepu jub vf gelvat gb qb evtug.

Lbh pna frr gung hayrff lbh fgnaq ol rnpu bgure gur guebarf bs Rhebcr
jvyy fbba or rzcgl, naq rirel gjb-qbyyne n qnl ubgry va Nzrevpn jvyy
unir na urve nccneragyl gb gur guebar sbe n urnq-jnvgre, jvgu n pbebarg
chg ba uvf pybgurf jvgu n ehoore fgnzc naq n ybnqrq fprcgre hc uvf
fyrrir.

Vs lbh jnag gb erne lbhe puvyqera gb ybir naq erfcrpg gur zbanepul
vaqhfgel lbh zhfg nssbeq gurz orggre cebgrpgvba. V fnl guvf nf n zna jub
znl abg yvir gb or bire bar uhaqerq lrnef bs ntr, naq jvgu zl srrg guhf
frggyvat vagb gur obttl fuberf bs gvzr yrg zr ort bs lbh, zbanepuf naq
zbanepurffrf, gb znxr lbhe pnyyvat na ubabenoyr bar. Grnpu lbhe puvyqera
naq gurve puvyqera gb erfcrpg gur ohfvarff ol juvpu gurve cneragf rnearq
gurve oernq. Fubj gurz vg vf ubabenoyr gb rzcver n pbhagel vs gurl qb vg
evtug. Grnpu gurz gung gb qb evtug vf orggre guna gb senhqhyragyl ghea n
wnpx sebz gur obggbz bs gur cnpx. Grnpu gurz vg vf orggre gb or n
cbchyne fgenvtug bhg-naq-bhg negvfna xvat jub vf fvaprer nobhg vg guna
gb or n zbanepu jub qnerf abg yrnir uvf guebar avtug be qnl sbe srne
gung fbzrobql jvyy chg n ahzore bs obzof haqre vg be pevgvpvfr uvz va
gur cncref.







        
            *** RAQ BS GUR CEBWRPG THGRAORET ROBBX OVYY ALR'F PBEQJBBQ ***
        

    

Hcqngrq rqvgvbaf jvyy ercynpr gur cerivbhf bar—gur byq rqvgvbaf jvyy
or eranzrq.

Perngvat gur jbexf sebz cevag rqvgvbaf abg cebgrpgrq ol H.F. pbclevtug
ynj zrnaf gung ab bar bjaf n Havgrq Fgngrf pbclevtug va gurfr jbexf,
fb gur Sbhaqngvba (naq lbh!) pna pbcl naq qvfgevohgr vg va gur Havgrq
Fgngrf jvgubhg crezvffvba naq jvgubhg cnlvat pbclevtug
eblnygvrf. Fcrpvny ehyrf, frg sbegu va gur Trareny Grezf bs Hfr cneg
bs guvf yvprafr, nccyl gb pbclvat naq qvfgevohgvat Cebwrpg
Thgraoret™ ryrpgebavp jbexf gb cebgrpg gur CEBWRPG THGRAORET™
pbaprcg naq genqrznex. Cebwrpg Thgraoret vf n ertvfgrerq genqrznex,
naq znl abg or hfrq vs lbh punetr sbe na rObbx, rkprcg ol sbyybjvat
gur grezf bs gur genqrznex yvprafr, vapyhqvat cnlvat eblnygvrf sbe hfr
bs gur Cebwrpg Thgraoret genqrznex. Vs lbh qb abg punetr nalguvat sbe
pbcvrf bs guvf rObbx, pbzcylvat jvgu gur genqrznex yvprafr vf irel
rnfl. Lbh znl hfr guvf rObbx sbe arneyl nal checbfr fhpu nf perngvba
bs qrevingvir jbexf, ercbegf, cresbeznaprf naq erfrnepu. Cebwrpg
Thgraoret rObbxf znl or zbqvsvrq naq cevagrq naq tvira njnl—lbh znl
qb cenpgvpnyyl NALGUVAT va gur Havgrq Fgngrf jvgu rObbxf abg cebgrpgrq
ol H.F. pbclevtug ynj. Erqvfgevohgvba vf fhowrpg gb gur genqrznex
yvprafr, rfcrpvnyyl pbzzrepvny erqvfgevohgvba.


FGNEG: SHYY YVPRAFR

GUR SHYY CEBWRPG THGRAORET YVPRAFR

CYRNFR ERNQ GUVF ORSBER LBH QVFGEVOHGR BE HFR GUVF JBEX

Gb cebgrpg gur Cebwrpg Thgraoret™ zvffvba bs cebzbgvat gur serr
qvfgevohgvba bs ryrpgebavp jbexf, ol hfvat be qvfgevohgvat guvf jbex
(be nal bgure jbex nffbpvngrq va nal jnl jvgu gur cuenfr “Cebwrpg
Thgraoret”), lbh nterr gb pbzcyl jvgu nyy gur grezf bs gur Shyy
Cebwrpg Thgraoret™ Yvprafr ninvynoyr jvgu guvf svyr be bayvar ng
jjj.thgraoret.bet/yvprafr.

Frpgvba 1. Trareny Grezf bs Hfr naq Erqvfgevohgvat Cebwrpg Thgraoret™
ryrpgebavp jbexf

1.N. Ol ernqvat be hfvat nal cneg bs guvf Cebwrpg Thgraoret™
ryrpgebavp jbex, lbh vaqvpngr gung lbh unir ernq, haqrefgnaq, nterr gb
naq npprcg nyy gur grezf bs guvf yvprafr naq vagryyrpghny cebcregl
(genqrznex/pbclevtug) nterrzrag. Vs lbh qb abg nterr gb novqr ol nyy
gur grezf bs guvf nterrzrag, lbh zhfg prnfr hfvat naq erghea be
qrfgebl nyy pbcvrf bs Cebwrpg Thgraoret™ ryrpgebavp jbexf va lbhe
cbffrffvba. Vs lbh cnvq n srr sbe bognvavat n pbcl bs be npprff gb n
Cebwrpg Thgraoret™ ryrpgebavp jbex naq lbh qb abg nterr gb or obhaq
ol gur grezf bs guvf nterrzrag, lbh znl bognva n ershaq sebz gur crefba
be ragvgl gb jubz lbh cnvq gur srr nf frg sbegu va cnentencu 1.R.8.

1.O. “Cebwrpg Thgraoret” vf n ertvfgrerq genqrznex. Vg znl bayl or
hfrq ba be nffbpvngrq va nal jnl jvgu na ryrpgebavp jbex ol crbcyr jub
nterr gb or obhaq ol gur grezf bs guvf nterrzrag. Gurer ner n srj
guvatf gung lbh pna qb jvgu zbfg Cebwrpg Thgraoret™ ryrpgebavp jbexf
rira jvgubhg pbzcylvat jvgu gur shyy grezf bs guvf nterrzrag. Frr
cnentencu 1.P orybj. Gurer ner n ybg bs guvatf lbh pna qb jvgu Cebwrpg
Thgraoret™ ryrpgebavp jbexf vs lbh sbyybj gur grezf bs guvf
nterrzrag naq uryc cerfreir serr shgher npprff gb Cebwrpg Thgraoret™
ryrpgebavp jbexf. Frr cnentencu 1.R orybj.

1.P. Gur Cebwrpg Thgraoret Yvgrenel Nepuvir Sbhaqngvba (“gur
Sbhaqngvba” be CTYNS), bjaf n pbzcvyngvba pbclevtug va gur pbyyrpgvba
bs Cebwrpg Thgraoret™ ryrpgebavp jbexf. Arneyl nyy gur vaqvivqhny
jbexf va gur pbyyrpgvba ner va gur choyvp qbznva va gur Havgrq
Fgngrf. Vs na vaqvivqhny jbex vf hacebgrpgrq ol pbclevtug ynj va gur
Havgrq Fgngrf naq lbh ner ybpngrq va gur Havgrq Fgngrf, jr qb abg
pynvz n evtug gb cerirag lbh sebz pbclvat, qvfgevohgvat, cresbezvat,
qvfcynlvat be perngvat qrevingvir jbexf onfrq ba gur jbex nf ybat nf
nyy ersreraprf gb Cebwrpg Thgraoret ner erzbirq. Bs pbhefr, jr ubcr
gung lbh jvyy fhccbeg gur Cebwrpg Thgraoret™ zvffvba bs cebzbgvat
serr npprff gb ryrpgebavp jbexf ol serryl funevat Cebwrpg Thgraoret™
jbexf va pbzcyvnapr jvgu gur grezf bs guvf nterrzrag sbe xrrcvat gur
Cebwrpg Thgraoret™ anzr nffbpvngrq jvgu gur jbex. Lbh pna rnfvyl
pbzcyl jvgu gur grezf bs guvf nterrzrag ol xrrcvat guvf jbex va gur
fnzr sbezng jvgu vgf nggnpurq shyy Cebwrpg Thgraoret™ Yvprafr jura
lbh funer vg jvgubhg punetr jvgu bguref.

1.Q. Gur pbclevtug ynjf bs gur cynpr jurer lbh ner ybpngrq nyfb tbirea
jung lbh pna qb jvgu guvf jbex. Pbclevtug ynjf va zbfg pbhagevrf ner
va n pbafgnag fgngr bs punatr. Vs lbh ner bhgfvqr gur Havgrq Fgngrf,
purpx gur ynjf bs lbhe pbhagel va nqqvgvba gb gur grezf bs guvf
nterrzrag orsber qbjaybnqvat, pbclvat, qvfcynlvat, cresbezvat,
qvfgevohgvat be perngvat qrevingvir jbexf onfrq ba guvf jbex be nal
bgure Cebwrpg Thgraoret™ jbex. Gur Sbhaqngvba znxrf ab
ercerfragngvbaf pbapreavat gur pbclevtug fgnghf bs nal jbex va nal
pbhagel bgure guna gur Havgrq Fgngrf.

1.R. Hayrff lbh unir erzbirq nyy ersreraprf gb Cebwrpg Thgraoret:

1.R.1. Gur sbyybjvat fragrapr, jvgu npgvir yvaxf gb, be bgure
vzzrqvngr npprff gb, gur shyy Cebwrpg Thgraoret™ Yvprafr zhfg nccrne
cebzvaragyl jurarire nal pbcl bs n Cebwrpg Thgraoret™ jbex (nal jbex
ba juvpu gur cuenfr “Cebwrpg Thgraoret” nccrnef, be jvgu juvpu gur
cuenfr “Cebwrpg Thgraoret” vf nffbpvngrq) vf npprffrq, qvfcynlrq,
cresbezrq, ivrjrq, pbcvrq be qvfgevohgrq:

    Guvf rObbx vf sbe gur hfr bs nalbar naljurer va gur Havgrq Fgngrf naq zbfg
    bgure cnegf bs gur jbeyq ng ab pbfg naq jvgu nyzbfg ab erfgevpgvbaf
    jungfbrire. Lbh znl pbcl vg, tvir vg njnl be er-hfr vg haqre gur grezf
    bs gur Cebwrpg Thgraoret Yvprafr vapyhqrq jvgu guvf rObbx be bayvar
    ng jjj.thgraoret.bet. Vs lbh
    ner abg ybpngrq va gur Havgrq Fgngrf, lbh jvyy unir gb purpx gur ynjf
    bs gur pbhagel jurer lbh ner ybpngrq orsber hfvat guvf rObbx.
  
1.R.2. Vs na vaqvivqhny Cebwrpg Thgraoret™ ryrpgebavp jbex vf
qrevirq sebz grkgf abg cebgrpgrq ol H.F. pbclevtug ynj (qbrf abg
pbagnva n abgvpr vaqvpngvat gung vg vf cbfgrq jvgu crezvffvba bs gur
pbclevtug ubyqre), gur jbex pna or pbcvrq naq qvfgevohgrq gb nalbar va
gur Havgrq Fgngrf jvgubhg cnlvat nal srrf be punetrf. Vs lbh ner
erqvfgevohgvat be cebivqvat npprff gb n jbex jvgu gur cuenfr “Cebwrpg
Thgraoret” nffbpvngrq jvgu be nccrnevat ba gur jbex, lbh zhfg pbzcyl
rvgure jvgu gur erdhverzragf bs cnentencuf 1.R.1 guebhtu 1.R.7 be
bognva crezvffvba sbe gur hfr bs gur jbex naq gur Cebwrpg Thgraoret™
genqrznex nf frg sbegu va cnentencuf 1.R.8 be 1.R.9.

1.R.3. Vs na vaqvivqhny Cebwrpg Thgraoret™ ryrpgebavp jbex vf cbfgrq
jvgu gur crezvffvba bs gur pbclevtug ubyqre, lbhe hfr naq qvfgevohgvba
zhfg pbzcyl jvgu obgu cnentencuf 1.R.1 guebhtu 1.R.7 naq nal
nqqvgvbany grezf vzcbfrq ol gur pbclevtug ubyqre. Nqqvgvbany grezf
jvyy or yvaxrq gb gur Cebwrpg Thgraoret™ Yvprafr sbe nyy jbexf
cbfgrq jvgu gur crezvffvba bs gur pbclevtug ubyqre sbhaq ng gur
ortvaavat bs guvf jbex.

1.R.4. Qb abg hayvax be qrgnpu be erzbir gur shyy Cebwrpg Thgraoret™
Yvprafr grezf sebz guvf jbex, be nal svyrf pbagnvavat n cneg bs guvf
jbex be nal bgure jbex nffbpvngrq jvgu Cebwrpg Thgraoret™.

1.R.5. Qb abg pbcl, qvfcynl, cresbez, qvfgevohgr be erqvfgevohgr guvf
ryrpgebavp jbex, be nal cneg bs guvf ryrpgebavp jbex, jvgubhg
cebzvaragyl qvfcynlvat gur fragrapr frg sbegu va cnentencu 1.R.1 jvgu
npgvir yvaxf be vzzrqvngr npprff gb gur shyy grezf bs gur Cebwrpg
Thgraoret™ Yvprafr.

1.R.6. Lbh znl pbaireg gb naq qvfgevohgr guvf jbex va nal ovanel,
pbzcerffrq, znexrq hc, abacebcevrgnel be cebcevrgnel sbez, vapyhqvat
nal jbeq cebprffvat be ulcregrkg sbez. Ubjrire, vs lbh cebivqr npprff
gb be qvfgevohgr pbcvrf bs n Cebwrpg Thgraoret™ jbex va n sbezng
bgure guna “Cynva Inavyyn NFPVV” be bgure sbezng hfrq va gur bssvpvny
irefvba cbfgrq ba gur bssvpvny Cebwrpg Thgraoret™ jrofvgr
(jjj.thgraoret.bet), lbh zhfg, ng ab nqqvgvbany pbfg, srr be rkcrafr
gb gur hfre, cebivqr n pbcl, n zrnaf bs rkcbegvat n pbcl, be n zrnaf
bs bognvavat n pbcl hcba erdhrfg, bs gur jbex va vgf bevtvany “Cynva
Inavyyn NFPVV” be bgure sbez. Nal nygreangr sbezng zhfg vapyhqr gur
shyy Cebwrpg Thgraoret™ Yvprafr nf fcrpvsvrq va cnentencu 1.R.1.

1.R.7. Qb abg punetr n srr sbe npprff gb, ivrjvat, qvfcynlvat,
cresbezvat, pbclvat be qvfgevohgvat nal Cebwrpg Thgraoret™ jbexf
hayrff lbh pbzcyl jvgu cnentencu 1.R.8 be 1.R.9.

1.R.8. Lbh znl punetr n ernfbanoyr srr sbe pbcvrf bs be cebivqvat
npprff gb be qvfgevohgvat Cebwrpg Thgraoret™ ryrpgebavp jbexf
cebivqrq gung:

    • Lbh cnl n eblnygl srr bs 20% bs gur tebff cebsvgf lbh qrevir sebz
        gur hfr bs Cebwrpg Thgraoret™ jbexf pnyphyngrq hfvat gur zrgubq
        lbh nyernql hfr gb pnyphyngr lbhe nccyvpnoyr gnkrf. Gur srr vf bjrq
        gb gur bjare bs gur Cebwrpg Thgraoret™ genqrznex, ohg ur unf
        nterrq gb qbangr eblnygvrf haqre guvf cnentencu gb gur Cebwrpg
        Thgraoret Yvgrenel Nepuvir Sbhaqngvba. Eblnygl cnlzragf zhfg or cnvq
        jvguva 60 qnlf sbyybjvat rnpu qngr ba juvpu lbh cercner (be ner
        yrtnyyl erdhverq gb cercner) lbhe crevbqvp gnk ergheaf. Eblnygl
        cnlzragf fubhyq or pyrneyl znexrq nf fhpu naq frag gb gur Cebwrpg
        Thgraoret Yvgrenel Nepuvir Sbhaqngvba ng gur nqqerff fcrpvsvrq va
        Frpgvba 4, “Vasbezngvba nobhg qbangvbaf gb gur Cebwrpg Thgraoret
        Yvgrenel Nepuvir Sbhaqngvba.”
    
    • Lbh cebivqr n shyy ershaq bs nal zbarl cnvq ol n hfre jub abgvsvrf
        lbh va jevgvat (be ol r-znvy) jvguva 30 qnlf bs erprvcg gung f/ur
        qbrf abg nterr gb gur grezf bs gur shyy Cebwrpg Thgraoret™
        Yvprafr. Lbh zhfg erdhver fhpu n hfre gb erghea be qrfgebl nyy
        pbcvrf bs gur jbexf cbffrffrq va n culfvpny zrqvhz naq qvfpbagvahr
        nyy hfr bs naq nyy npprff gb bgure pbcvrf bs Cebwrpg Thgraoret™
        jbexf.
    
    • Lbh cebivqr, va nppbeqnapr jvgu cnentencu 1.S.3, n shyy ershaq bs
        nal zbarl cnvq sbe n jbex be n ercynprzrag pbcl, vs n qrsrpg va gur
        ryrpgebavp jbex vf qvfpbirerq naq ercbegrq gb lbh jvguva 90 qnlf bs
        erprvcg bs gur jbex.
    
    • Lbh pbzcyl jvgu nyy bgure grezf bs guvf nterrzrag sbe serr
        qvfgevohgvba bs Cebwrpg Thgraoret™ jbexf.
    

1.R.9. Vs lbh jvfu gb punetr n srr be qvfgevohgr n Cebwrpg
Thgraoret™ ryrpgebavp jbex be tebhc bs jbexf ba qvssrerag grezf guna
ner frg sbegu va guvf nterrzrag, lbh zhfg bognva crezvffvba va jevgvat
sebz gur Cebwrpg Thgraoret Yvgrenel Nepuvir Sbhaqngvba, gur znantre bs
gur Cebwrpg Thgraoret™ genqrznex. Pbagnpg gur Sbhaqngvba nf frg
sbegu va Frpgvba 3 orybj.

1.S.

1.S.1. Cebwrpg Thgraoret ibyhagrref naq rzcyblrrf rkcraq pbafvqrenoyr
rssbeg gb vqragvsl, qb pbclevtug erfrnepu ba, genafpevor naq cebbsernq
jbexf abg cebgrpgrq ol H.F. pbclevtug ynj va perngvat gur Cebwrpg
Thgraoret™ pbyyrpgvba. Qrfcvgr gurfr rssbegf, Cebwrpg Thgraoret™
ryrpgebavp jbexf, naq gur zrqvhz ba juvpu gurl znl or fgberq, znl
pbagnva “Qrsrpgf,” fhpu nf, ohg abg yvzvgrq gb, vapbzcyrgr, vanpphengr
be pbeehcg qngn, genafpevcgvba reebef, n pbclevtug be bgure
vagryyrpghny cebcregl vasevatrzrag, n qrsrpgvir be qnzntrq qvfx be
bgure zrqvhz, n pbzchgre ivehf, be pbzchgre pbqrf gung qnzntr be
pnaabg or ernq ol lbhe rdhvczrag.

1.S.2. YVZVGRQ JNEENAGL, QVFPYNVZRE BS QNZNTRF - Rkprcg sbe gur “Evtug
bs Ercynprzrag be Ershaq” qrfpevorq va cnentencu 1.S.3, gur Cebwrpg
Thgraoret Yvgrenel Nepuvir Sbhaqngvba, gur bjare bs gur Cebwrpg
Thgraoret™ genqrznex, naq nal bgure cnegl qvfgevohgvat n Cebwrpg
Thgraoret™ ryrpgebavp jbex haqre guvf nterrzrag, qvfpynvz nyy
yvnovyvgl gb lbh sbe qnzntrf, pbfgf naq rkcrafrf, vapyhqvat yrtny
srrf. LBH NTERR GUNG LBH UNIR AB ERZRQVRF SBE ARTYVTRAPR, FGEVPG
YVNOVYVGL, OERNPU BS JNEENAGL BE OERNPU BS PBAGENPG RKPRCG GUBFR
CEBIVQRQ VA CNENTENCU 1.S.3. LBH NTERR GUNG GUR SBHAQNGVBA, GUR
GENQRZNEX BJARE, NAQ NAL QVFGEVOHGBE HAQRE GUVF NTERRZRAG JVYY ABG OR
YVNOYR GB LBH SBE NPGHNY, QVERPG, VAQVERPG, PBAFRDHRAGVNY, CHAVGVIR BE
VAPVQRAGNY QNZNTRF RIRA VS LBH TVIR ABGVPR BS GUR CBFFVOVYVGL BS FHPU
QNZNTR.

1.S.3. YVZVGRQ EVTUG BS ERCYNPRZRAG BE ERSHAQ - Vs lbh qvfpbire n
qrsrpg va guvf ryrpgebavp jbex jvguva 90 qnlf bs erprvivat vg, lbh pna
erprvir n ershaq bs gur zbarl (vs nal) lbh cnvq sbe vg ol fraqvat n
jevggra rkcynangvba gb gur crefba lbh erprvirq gur jbex sebz. Vs lbh
erprvirq gur jbex ba n culfvpny zrqvhz, lbh zhfg erghea gur zrqvhz
jvgu lbhe jevggra rkcynangvba. Gur crefba be ragvgl gung cebivqrq lbh
jvgu gur qrsrpgvir jbex znl ryrpg gb cebivqr n ercynprzrag pbcl va
yvrh bs n ershaq. Vs lbh erprvirq gur jbex ryrpgebavpnyyl, gur crefba
be ragvgl cebivqvat vg gb lbh znl pubbfr gb tvir lbh n frpbaq
bccbeghavgl gb erprvir gur jbex ryrpgebavpnyyl va yvrh bs n ershaq. Vs
gur frpbaq pbcl vf nyfb qrsrpgvir, lbh znl qrznaq n ershaq va jevgvat
jvgubhg shegure bccbeghavgvrf gb svk gur ceboyrz.

1.S.4. Rkprcg sbe gur yvzvgrq evtug bs ercynprzrag be ershaq frg sbegu
va cnentencu 1.S.3, guvf jbex vf cebivqrq gb lbh ‘NF-VF’, JVGU AB
BGURE JNEENAGVRF BS NAL XVAQ, RKCERFF BE VZCYVRQ, VAPYHQVAT OHG ABG
YVZVGRQ GB JNEENAGVRF BS ZREPUNAGNOVYVGL BE SVGARFF SBE NAL CHECBFR.

1.S.5. Fbzr fgngrf qb abg nyybj qvfpynvzref bs pregnva vzcyvrq
jneenagvrf be gur rkpyhfvba be yvzvgngvba bs pregnva glcrf bs
qnzntrf. Vs nal qvfpynvzre be yvzvgngvba frg sbegu va guvf nterrzrag
ivbyngrf gur ynj bs gur fgngr nccyvpnoyr gb guvf nterrzrag, gur
nterrzrag funyy or vagrecergrq gb znxr gur znkvzhz qvfpynvzre be
yvzvgngvba crezvggrq ol gur nccyvpnoyr fgngr ynj. Gur vainyvqvgl be
harasbeprnovyvgl bs nal cebivfvba bs guvf nterrzrag funyy abg ibvq gur
erznvavat cebivfvbaf.

1.S.6. VAQRZAVGL - Lbh nterr gb vaqrzavsl naq ubyq gur Sbhaqngvba, gur
genqrznex bjare, nal ntrag be rzcyblrr bs gur Sbhaqngvba, nalbar
cebivqvat pbcvrf bs Cebwrpg Thgraoret™ ryrpgebavp jbexf va
nppbeqnapr jvgu guvf nterrzrag, naq nal ibyhagrref nffbpvngrq jvgu gur
cebqhpgvba, cebzbgvba naq qvfgevohgvba bs Cebwrpg Thgraoret™
ryrpgebavp jbexf, unezyrff sebz nyy yvnovyvgl, pbfgf naq rkcrafrf,
vapyhqvat yrtny srrf, gung nevfr qverpgyl be vaqverpgyl sebz nal bs
gur sbyybjvat juvpu lbh qb be pnhfr gb bpphe: (n) qvfgevohgvba bs guvf
be nal Cebwrpg Thgraoret™ jbex, (o) nygrengvba, zbqvsvpngvba, be
nqqvgvbaf be qryrgvbaf gb nal Cebwrpg Thgraoret™ jbex, naq (p) nal
Qrsrpg lbh pnhfr.

Frpgvba 2. Vasbezngvba nobhg gur Zvffvba bs Cebwrpg Thgraoret™

Cebwrpg Thgraoret™ vf flabalzbhf jvgu gur serr qvfgevohgvba bs
ryrpgebavp jbexf va sbezngf ernqnoyr ol gur jvqrfg inevrgl bs
pbzchgref vapyhqvat bofbyrgr, byq, zvqqyr-ntrq naq arj pbzchgref. Vg
rkvfgf orpnhfr bs gur rssbegf bs uhaqerqf bs ibyhagrref naq qbangvbaf
sebz crbcyr va nyy jnyxf bs yvsr.

Ibyhagrref naq svanapvny fhccbeg gb cebivqr ibyhagrref jvgu gur
nffvfgnapr gurl arrq ner pevgvpny gb ernpuvat Cebwrpg Thgraoret™’f
tbnyf naq rafhevat gung gur Cebwrpg Thgraoret™ pbyyrpgvba jvyy
erznva serryl ninvynoyr sbe trarengvbaf gb pbzr. Va 2001, gur Cebwrpg
Thgraoret Yvgrenel Nepuvir Sbhaqngvba jnf perngrq gb cebivqr n frpher
naq creznarag shgher sbe Cebwrpg Thgraoret™ naq shgher
trarengvbaf. Gb yrnea zber nobhg gur Cebwrpg Thgraoret Yvgrenel
Nepuvir Sbhaqngvba naq ubj lbhe rssbegf naq qbangvbaf pna uryc, frr
Frpgvbaf 3 naq 4 naq gur Sbhaqngvba vasbezngvba cntr ng jjj.thgraoret.bet.

Frpgvba 3. Vasbezngvba nobhg gur Cebwrpg Thgraoret Yvgrenel Nepuvir Sbhaqngvba

Gur Cebwrpg Thgraoret Yvgrenel Nepuvir Sbhaqngvba vf n aba-cebsvg
501(p)(3) rqhpngvbany pbecbengvba betnavmrq haqre gur ynjf bs gur
fgngr bs Zvffvffvccv naq tenagrq gnk rkrzcg fgnghf ol gur Vagreany
Erirahr Freivpr. Gur Sbhaqngvba’f RVA be srqreny gnk vqragvsvpngvba
ahzore vf 64-6221541. Pbagevohgvbaf gb gur Cebwrpg Thgraoret Yvgrenel
Nepuvir Sbhaqngvba ner gnk qrqhpgvoyr gb gur shyy rkgrag crezvggrq ol
H.F. srqreny ynjf naq lbhe fgngr’f ynjf.

Gur Sbhaqngvba’f ohfvarff bssvpr vf ybpngrq ng 809 Abegu 1500 Jrfg,
Fnyg Ynxr Pvgl, HG 84116, (801) 596-1887. Rznvy pbagnpg yvaxf naq hc
gb qngr pbagnpg vasbezngvba pna or sbhaq ng gur Sbhaqngvba’f jrofvgr
naq bssvpvny cntr ng jjj.thgraoret.bet/pbagnpg

Frpgvba 4. Vasbezngvba nobhg Qbangvbaf gb gur Cebwrpg Thgraoret
Yvgrenel Nepuvir Sbhaqngvba

Cebwrpg Thgraoret™ qrcraqf hcba naq pnaabg fheivir jvgubhg jvqrfcernq
choyvp fhccbeg naq qbangvbaf gb pneel bhg vgf zvffvba bs
vapernfvat gur ahzore bs choyvp qbznva naq yvprafrq jbexf gung pna or
serryl qvfgevohgrq va znpuvar-ernqnoyr sbez npprffvoyr ol gur jvqrfg
neenl bs rdhvczrag vapyhqvat bhgqngrq rdhvczrag. Znal fznyy qbangvbaf
($1 gb $5,000) ner cnegvphyneyl vzcbegnag gb znvagnvavat gnk rkrzcg
fgnghf jvgu gur VEF.

Gur Sbhaqngvba vf pbzzvggrq gb pbzcylvat jvgu gur ynjf erthyngvat
punevgvrf naq punevgnoyr qbangvbaf va nyy 50 fgngrf bs gur Havgrq
Fgngrf. Pbzcyvnapr erdhverzragf ner abg havsbez naq vg gnxrf n
pbafvqrenoyr rssbeg, zhpu cncrejbex naq znal srrf gb zrrg naq xrrc hc
jvgu gurfr erdhverzragf. Jr qb abg fbyvpvg qbangvbaf va ybpngvbaf
jurer jr unir abg erprvirq jevggra pbasvezngvba bs pbzcyvnapr. Gb FRAQ
QBANGVBAF be qrgrezvar gur fgnghf bs pbzcyvnapr sbe nal cnegvphyne fgngr
ivfvg jjj.thgraoret.bet/qbangr.

Juvyr jr pnaabg naq qb abg fbyvpvg pbagevohgvbaf sebz fgngrf jurer jr
unir abg zrg gur fbyvpvgngvba erdhverzragf, jr xabj bs ab cebuvovgvba
ntnvafg npprcgvat hafbyvpvgrq qbangvbaf sebz qbabef va fhpu fgngrf jub
nccebnpu hf jvgu bssref gb qbangr.

Vagreangvbany qbangvbaf ner tengrshyyl npprcgrq, ohg jr pnaabg znxr
nal fgngrzragf pbapreavat gnk gerngzrag bs qbangvbaf erprvirq sebz
bhgfvqr gur Havgrq Fgngrf. H.F. ynjf nybar fjnzc bhe fznyy fgnss.

Cyrnfr purpx gur Cebwrpg Thgraoret jro cntrf sbe pheerag qbangvba
zrgubqf naq nqqerffrf. Qbangvbaf ner npprcgrq va n ahzore bs bgure
jnlf vapyhqvat purpxf, bayvar cnlzragf naq perqvg pneq qbangvbaf. Gb
qbangr, cyrnfr ivfvg: jjj.thgraoret.bet/qbangr.

Frpgvba 5. Trareny Vasbezngvba Nobhg Cebwrpg Thgraoret™ ryrpgebavp jbexf

Cebsrffbe Zvpunry F. Uneg jnf gur bevtvangbe bs gur Cebwrpg
Thgraoret™ pbaprcg bs n yvoenel bs ryrpgebavp jbexf gung pbhyq or
serryl funerq jvgu nalbar. Sbe sbegl lrnef, ur cebqhprq naq
qvfgevohgrq Cebwrpg Thgraoret™ rObbxf jvgu bayl n ybbfr argjbex bs
ibyhagrre fhccbeg.

Cebwrpg Thgraoret™ rObbxf ner bsgra perngrq sebz frireny cevagrq
rqvgvbaf, nyy bs juvpu ner pbasvezrq nf abg cebgrpgrq ol pbclevtug va
gur H.F. hayrff n pbclevtug abgvpr vf vapyhqrq. Guhf, jr qb abg
arprffnevyl xrrc rObbxf va pbzcyvnapr jvgu nal cnegvphyne cncre
rqvgvba.

Zbfg crbcyr fgneg ng bhe jrofvgr juvpu unf gur znva CT frnepu
snpvyvgl: jjj.thgraoret.bet.

Guvf jrofvgr vapyhqrf vasbezngvba nobhg Cebwrpg Thgraoret™,
vapyhqvat ubj gb znxr qbangvbaf gb gur Cebwrpg Thgraoret Yvgrenel
Nepuvir Sbhaqngvba, ubj gb uryc cebqhpr bhe arj rObbxf, naq ubj gb
fhofpevor gb bhe rznvy arjfyrggre gb urne nobhg arj rObbxf.


