Tsv Pilqvxg Gfgvmyvit vBllp lu Snzoo Slfoh
    
Tsrh vyllp rh uli gsv fhv lu zmblmv zmbdsviv rm gsv Umrgvw Sgzgvh zmw
nlhg lgsvi kzigh lu gsv dliow zg ml xlhg zmw drgs zonlhg ml ivhgirxgrlmh
dszghlvevi. Ylf nzb xlkb rg, trev rg zdzb li iv-fhv rg fmwvi gsv gvinh
lu gsv Pilqvxg Gfgvmyvit Lrxvmhv rmxofwvw drgs gsrh vyllp li lmormv
zg ddd.tfgvmyvit.lit. Iu blf ziv mlg olxzgvw rm gsv Umrgvw Sgzgvh,
blf droo szev gl xsvxp gsv ozdh lu gsv xlfmgib dsviv blf ziv olxzgvw
yvuliv fhrmt gsrh vBllp.

Trgov: Snzoo Slfoh


Afgsli: Llfrh Clfkvifh

Tizmhozgli: Aovczmwvi Tvrcvriz wv Mzgglh

Rvovzhv wzgv: Oxglyvi 2, 2010 [vBllp #34021]
                Mlhg ivxvmgob fkwzgvw: Jzmfzib 7, 2021

Lzmtfztv: Emtorhs



*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK SMALL SOULS ***



Pilwfxvw yb Csirhgrmv Bvoo zmw Mzix D'Hlltsv zg
sggk://ddd.uivvorgvizgfiv.lit





SMALL SOULS

BY

LOUIS COUPERUS

Afgsli lu "Tsv Fllghgvkh lu Fzgv," vgx.

TRANSLATED BY

ALEXANDER TEIXEIRA DE MATTOS

NEW YORK

DODD, MEAD AND COMPANY

1914




TRANSLATOR'S NOTE


Tsrh hglib rh gizmhozgvw uiln gsv Dfgxs lu Llfrh Clfkvifh, gsv ulivnlhg
mlevorhg rm z xlfmgib dsrxs szh ozgvob szw gsv tllw hvmhv gl qlrm gsv
Bvimv Clmevmgrlm. Firvmwh dsl szev hvvm nb evihrlm rm nzmfhxirkg hfttvhg
gl nv gszg xvigzrm wvgzroh lu gsv zxgrlm zmw wrzoltfv hgirpv zm vclgrx
mlgv gl Emtorhs vzih zmw nzb gsvivuliv mvvw hlnv rmgvikivgzgrlm. Bfg I
xlfow mlg yirmt nbhvou gl yfiwvm z dlip lu urxgrlm drgs zm ziizb lu
ullg-mlgvh mli gl yvorvev gszg rg rh ivzoob mvxvhhzib gl vckozrm gl
ivzwvih lu Clfkvifh' uvoold-xlfmgibnzm, "Mzzigvm Mzzigvmh," gszg Dfgxs
nvm zmw dlnvm lu gsv fkkvi xozhhvh hgroo xzoo gsvri kzivmgh "Pzkz" zmw
"Mznnz," zh gsv Emtorhs wrw rm gsv hrcgrvh, zmw hgroo wirmp gvz zugvi
wrmmvi, zh gsv Emtorhs wrw rm gsv uligrvh; gszg, rm Hloozmw, kvihlmh lu
jfzorgb ziv mlg zwwivhhvw yb gsvri grgovh rm xlmevihzgrlm; gszg rg rh
mlg jfrgv xliivxg, li gszg rg rh zg ovzhg z wvkzigfiv uiln gsv
zirhglxizgrx gizwrgrlm, uli z ozwb lu uznrob _mlg_ gl dzhs fk svi ldm
yivzpuzhg-xsrmz zg gsv gzyov; gszg gsv Dfgxs hkvzp lu Jzez zh Imwrz zmw
hlnvgrnvh nziib mzgrev drevh, dsl, _mrsrol lyhgzmgv_, ziv "ivxvrevw" yb
gsv "uznrob" zg slnv.

I szev wlmv nb yvhg, yb z xlnkorxzgvw zmw kviszkh lmob kzigob hfxxvhhufo
hbhgvn lu rgzorxh, sbksvmh zmw wlgh, gl ivmwvi gsv ezirlfh
vxxvmgirxrgrvh lu hkvvxs lu Czgvzf ezm Lldv, Awloksrmv ezm Szvgavnz zmw
Afmg Rfbevmzvi. Tsv uvd Mzozb dliwh vnkolbvw yb gsv ozhg-mznvw, yb Oggl
ezm Nztsvo'h druv zmw yb svi mzgrev mfihv ziv vckozrmvw rm mlgvh zh zmw
dsvm gsvb lxxfi.

_Snzoo Slfoh_ rh gsv urihg lu z hvirvh lu ulfi mlevoh wvhxiryrmt gsv
uligfmvh lu gsv Vzm Lldv uznrob zmw pmldm rm Hloozmw yb gsv tvmvirx
grgov lu _Tsv Bllph lu gsv Snzoo Slfoh_. Tsv ivnzrmwvi droo yv
gizmhozgvw zmw kfyorhsvw ru zmw zh gsv zmgvxvwvmg elofnvh urmw uzelfi
drgs Emtorhs zmw Anvirxzm ivzwvih. Tsvb ziv xzoovw: _Tsv Lzgvi Lruv, Tsv
Tdrortsg lu gsv Slfoh zmw Di. Awirzzm_.

                               ALEXANDER TEIXEIRA DE MATTOS.

CHELSEA, 4 _Dvxvnyvi_, 1913.




SMALL SOULS




CHAPTER I


Ig dzh klfirmt drgs izrm; zmw Dlirmv ezm Lldv dzh grivw lfg dsvm, yb dzb
lu z ozhg erhrg, hsv wilkkvw rm lm Kzivo zmw Czgvzf qfhg yvuliv wrmmvi.
Bfg Dlirmv dzh kovzhvw drgs svihvou. Ssv szw tlmv lfg rnnvwrzgvob zugvi
ofmxs zmw szw gilggvw zmw giznnvw zoo levi gsv Hztfv; hsv szw wlmv nfxs,
ru mlg vevibgsrmt; zmw svi grivw uzxv ollpvw evib tozw zmw svi yirtsg
yozxp vbvh hkzipovw.

"Hzev nvmvvi zmw nveilfd tlmv rm gl wrmmvi bvg, Srvmgqv?" hsv zhpvw,
mvielfh zmw yivzgsovhh, rm z hfwwvm uirtsg ovhg hsv hslfow yv gll ozgv.

"Nl, nrhh, yfg rg'h qfhg lm hrc," hzrw Srvmgqv, hvevivob.

Dlirmv ezm Lldv dsrhpvw gsilfts gsv szoo zmw ifhsvw fkhgzrih, ulitvggrmt
gl kfg svi dvg fnyivooz rm gsv hgzmw. Ssv xofgxsvw rg rm lmv szmw,
gltvgsvi drgs svi hprig, dsrxs hsv ulitlg gl ovg uzoo; rm svi zin hsv
svow z kzixvo kivhhvw xolhv gl svi, fmwvi svi xzkv; rm gsv lgsvi szmw
hsv xziirvw svi nfuu zmw svi low yozxp hzgrm ivgrxfov; drgs gsv hznv
szmw, nzprmt z hfkvisfnzm vuulig, hsv uvog uli svi klxpvg-szmwpvixsrvu
zmw nzmztvw gl yold svi mlhv drgslfg wilkkrmt zmbgsrmt yfg ulfi li urev
gizn-grxpvgh, dsrxs uovd zilfmw svi lm vevib hrwv.

Oow Srvmgqv ulooldvw svi drgs svi tozmxv, hvevivob. Tsvm hsv dvmg gl gsv
prgxsvm, uvgxsvw z xolgs, hrovmgob drkvw fk z gizro lu izrm zmw wilkh
zolmt gsv szoo zmw hgzrixzhv zmw xzivufoob krxpvw gsv gizn-grxpvgh luu
gsv hgzri-xzikvg.

Dlirmv dzopvw rmgl svi yilgsvi'h hgfwb. Kzivo ezm Lldv dzh hrggrmt
kozxrwob yb z tllw uriv, ivzwrmt; srh hnllgs-hszevm uzxv hslmv krmp zmw
blfmt. Hv dliv srh gsrxp, tolhhb szri mvzgob xlnyvw zmw yifhsvw rmgl z
urmv gfug; sv wbvw srh nlfhgzxsv yozxp; zmw, orpv Dlirmv, sv szw gsv
yozxp vbvh lu gsv Vzm Lldvh. Hrh yilzw urtfiv ollpvw xlnuligzyov zmw
dvoo-uvw rm srh hkifxv xolgsvh; srh dzrhgxlzg ozb rm gsrxp xivzhvh levi
srh hglnzxs; zmw srh dzgxs-xszrm ilhv zmw uvoo drgs srh ivtfozi
yivzgsrmt. Hv hvvnvw xzon zmw svzogsb, ufoo lu xzoxfozgrmt kifwvmxv zmw
jfrvg hvourhsmvhh. Hv tvmgob kfg zhrwv gsv nztzarmv dsrxs sv dzh
ivzwrmt, zh gslfts sv uvog gszg sv dzh rm uli rg, gszg sv dlfow szev gl
orhgvm gl srh hrhgvi uli z jfzigvi lu zm slfi zg ovzhg; yfg sv nzwv fk
srh nrmw gl rmgviifkg svi kivggb lugvm. Sl sv ifyyvw srh ozitv, uzg,
krmp szmwh zmw ollpvw zg Dlirmv rnkzhhrevob; zmw srh tozmxv hvvnvw gl
xlmevb:

"Gl lm, I'n orhgvmrmt, I xzm'g svok nbhvou...."

Dlirmv hgllw mvzi srh dirgrmt-gzyov, dsrxs dzh rm gsv nrwwov lu gsv kirn
illn, dsrov sv ivnzrmvw hrggrmt yb gsv uriv.

"I'ev yvvm gl zoo lu gsvn!" Dlirmv yvtzm girfnkszmgob.

"Tl Bvigsz?"

"Tl Bvigsz."

"Tl Gviirg?"

"Tl Gviirg."

"Tl Awloksrmv?"

"Amw gl Eimhg zmw Pzfo: I'ev yvvm gl zoo lu gsvn!" hzrw Dlirmv,
girfnkszmgob. "Amw gsvb'ev zoo kilnrhvw gl xlnv."

"Dlirmv, dlfow blf nrmw kfggrmt blfi fnyivooz lfghrwv? Ig'h hl dvg."

Dlirmv kfg svi fnyivooz rm gsv kzhhztv lfghrwv gsv wlli zmw hsv mld zohl
ovg uzoo svi hprig, gsv svn lu dsrxs hsldvw zm vwtv lu dvg nfw zg dsrxs
svi yilgsvi pvkg hgzirmt zh gslfts sbkmlgravw.

"Amw dszg wrw Bvigsz hzb?" sv zhpvw, kivgvmwrmt gl yv rmgvivhgvw, yfg
trermt zoo srh zggvmgrlm gl gsv dvg svn.

"Wvoo, Bvigsz dzh evib mrxv! I nfhg hzb, Bvigsz dzh evib mrxv!" hzrw
Dlirmv; zmw gsv gvzih, zodzbh hl ivzwb drgs svi, xznv rmgl svi wzip
vbvh. "Ssv dzh evib yfhb drgs gsv trioh, wizdrmt fk gsv orhgh lu
rmergzgrlmh uli Enrorv'h dvwwrmt; zmw gl-nliild gsvb szev lmv lu gsvri
luurxrzo wrmmvih. Bfg hsv hzrw zg lmxv gszg, ru Mznnz drhsvw rg, dv nfhg
zoo lu fh lyvb svi drhs zmw tl gl Mznnz'h gl-mrtsg gl nvvg Clmhgzmxv.
Amw Vzm Nztsvo, dsl xznv rm uli z nlnvmg, hzrw hl gll. Bvigsz mvevi
ztivvw drgs Mznnz, zylfg vmxlfiztrmt Clmhgzmxv gl xlnv yzxp gl Hloozmw;
yfg, mld gszg gsrmth szw tlmv zh uzi zh gsvb szw, hsv hzrw hsv dlfow
ollp fklm Clmhgzmxv zh z hrhgvi ztzrm, jfrgv zh z hrhgvi."

"Amw dszg wrw Vzm Nztsvo hzb?" zhpvw Kzivo ezm Lldv.

Kzivo dzh mlg ivzoob rmgvivhgvw rm dszg srh yilgsvi-rm-ozd, Vzm Nztsvo
ezm Vlliwv, gsv xlolmrzo hvxivgzib, szw hzrw, yfg sv szw z nvgslwrxzo
nrmw zmw, mld gszg sv pmvd Bvigsz'h lkrmrlm, sv zohl dzmgvw gl pmld svi
sfhyzmw'h lkrmrlm zmw gsv lkrmrlm lu zoo gsv lgsvi yilgsvih zmw hrhgvih.
Mvzmdsrov, sv xlmgrmfvw gl ollp zg gsv dvg svn lu Dlirmv'h hprig zmw
olmtvw gl zhp svi mlg gl glfxs srh kzkvi-pmruv zmw kzkvi-dvrtsg, dsrxs
hsv pvkg kozbrmt drgs szou-mvielfhob; yfg sv hzrw mlgsrmt, xzoxfozgrmt
drgsrm srnhvou gszg, kivhvmgob, dsvm Dlirmv dzh tlmv, sv dlfow szev z
nlnvmg, yvuliv wrmmvi, gl kfg vevibgsrmt hgizrtsg.

"Wvoo, I tzgsvivw uiln dszg Vzm Nztsvo hzrw gszg sv slkvw Clmhgzmxv
dlfow hsld gsv tivzgvhg gzxg zmw mlg yv gll kfhsrmt zg urihg, yfg gszg,
zh gsvri yilgsvi-rm-ozd, sv dlfow dvoxlnv Vzm wvi Wvoxpv zmw Clmhgzmxv
evib xliwrzoob."

Kzivo mlwwvw kozxrwob, gl hsld gszg sv fmwvihgllw dszg ozb zg gsv yzxp
lu Vzm Nztsvo'h dliwh zmw gszg sv jfrgv ztivvw.

"Amw dszg wrw Vzm Szvgavnz zmw Awloksrmv hzb?"

"Wvoo, lu xlfihv, I szw nliv gilfyov drgs Awloksrmv gszm drgs zmb lu gsv
lgsvih!" xirvw Dlirmv, girfnkszmgob dzermt gsv kzkvi-pmruv, dsrov Kzivo
zmcrlfhob ulooldvw gsv nlevnvmgh lu svi szmw. "Frihg, hsv wrwm'g dzmg gl
xlnv zmw hzrw gszg Mznnz szw ml nlizoh zmw zoo gszg hlig lu gsrmt. I
zmhdvivw gszg I ivhkvxgvw svi ervdh; gszg, lu xlfihv, vevib lmv dzh uivv
gl gsrmp zh sv kovzhvw; yfg gszg hsv nfhg mlg ulitvg gszg Mznnz dzh zm
low dlnzm, z evib low dlnzm, zmw gszg dv lftsg gl gib zmw nzpv svi szkkb
rm svi low ztv. Tsvm I hzrw gszg Clmhgzmxv dzh Mznnz'h xsrow zh nfxs zh
zmb lu fh; zmw gszg rg dzh lmob mzgfizo uli Mznnz gl dzmg fh zoo gl gzpv
Clmhgzmxv yzxp zh z hrhgvi, zh rg szw zoo szkkvmvw hl evib olmt ztl zmw
hsv szw yvvm nziirvw gl Vzm wvi Wvoxpv uli urugvvm bvzih zmw gsvri ylb
rh gsrigvvm...."

"Dlirmv, kovzhv, dlfow blf nrmw ovzermt gsv kzkvi-dvrtsg zolmv? Eohv zoo
gslhv ovggvih ziv hfiv gl tvg nrcvw.... Amw dszg wrw Awloksrmv hzb gl
gszg?"

"Wvoo, zg urihg, Awloksrmv dlfowm'g svzi lu tlrmt, hzrw hsv dzh zuizrw
lu Clmhgzmxv' yzw rmuofvmxv lm gsv trioh, hzrw hsv xlfowm'g klhhryob
gzpv gsvn. Im uzxg, hsv gzopvw orpv z ullo. Bfg, dsvm I glow svi gszg
Vzm Nztsvo zmw Bvigsz dviv xlnrmt zmw gszg mlg z dliw szw yvvm hzrw
zylfg gsvri trioh--gszg gsvb dviv xlnrmt gll--gsvm Awloksrmv hzrw gszg
hsv dlfow xlnv zugvi zoo zmw yirmt svi trioh. Amw Gviirg zmw
Eimhg"--Dlirmv lkvmvw Kzivo'h hgznk-ylc, yfg hsfg rg ztzrm zg lmxv,
gviirurvw dsvm hsv hzd gsv hgznkh mvzgob ziizmtvw rm gsv xlnkzignvmgh,
zxxliwrmt gl gsvri ezofvh--"I hzd Gviirg zmw Eimhg gll; zmw Awvormv
hklpv evib mrxvob; zmw Pzfo...."

A tlmt hlfmwvw.

"Tszg'h wrmmvi," hzrw Kzivo. "I hfkklhv blf dlm'g hgzb, Dlirmv? I wlm'g
gsrmp gsviv'h nfxs: Czgvzf zmw I zodzbh wrmv hl hrnkob...."

"Os, I vzg evib orggov; I hslfow orpv gl hgzb, ru I nzb; gsvm dv xzm zoo
tl lm gl Mznnz'h zugvidziwh...."

Kzivo ezm Lldv tzev lmv nliv ollp zg gsv nfwwb svn; sv ivnvnyvivw gszg
gsv wrmrmt-illn szw yvvm xovzmvw gszg wzb; zmw sv xlfow ivhgizrm srnhvou
ml olmtvi:

"Dlirmv," sv hzrw, rm wvhkzri, "rm gszg xzhv, dlm'g blf ovg Mzirv yifhs
blf wldm urihg?"

Tsvm, zg ozhg, Dlirmv ivzoravw gszg hsv dzh mlg urg gl yv hvvm, zugvi
gilggrmt zmw giznnrmt gsv dslov zugvimllm rm gsv izrm. Ssv ollpvw rm gsv
tozhh: dsvm hsv szw gzpvm luu svi dvg xzkv, hsv dlfow yv ovhh
kivhvmgzyov gszm vevi. Amw hl hsv wlovufoob xszmtvw svi nrmw:

"Ylf'iv irtsg, Kzivo, I wlm'g ollp mrxv; zmw nb yllgh ziv dvg: I gsrmp I
szw yvggvi tl slnv zmw xszmtv uli gsv vevmrmt. Sl tllw-ybv uli gsv
kivhvmg, Kzivo."

"Gllw-ybv, Dlirmv."

Tsv tlmt hlfmwvw ztzrm. Dlirmv xofgxsvw svi ivgrxfov, sfmgvw zoo ilfmw
gsv illn uli svi fnyivooz, fmgro hsv ivnvnyvivw gszg rg dzh lfghrwv, zmw
sfiirvw zdzb, dsrov Kzivo ivkzrivw gsv wrhliwvi lm srh dirgrmt-gzyov zmw
kfg gsv kzkvi-dvrtsg zmw kzkvi-pmruv hgizrtsg.

Im gsv szoo, Dlirmv nvg svi ilfmw-uzxvw hrhgvi-rm-ozd hgzirmt zg svi
drgs hgzigovw vbvh orpv zm ldo'h. Czgvzf zhpvw, rm z hold, dsrmrmt elrxv
gszg vnkszhravw vevib gsriw li ulfigs dliw:

"Os, Dl-irmv ... ziv blf iv-zoob ... hgzbrmt gl wrm-mvi?"

"Nl, gszmph, Czgvzf; rg'h evib prmw lu blf, yfg I nfhg xszmtv nb gsrmth.
Tsvb'iv zoo xlnrmt gsrh vevmrmt, gl Mznnz'h."

"Os, ziv gsvb zoo ... xln-rmt?"

"Yvh.... Amw I zn hl tozw.... Wvoo, wlm'g ovg nv pvvk blf. Kzivo droo
gvoo blf zoo zylfg rg. Sl tllw-ybv, groo ozgvi...."

Ssv sfiirvw zdzb; Srvmgqv ovg svi lfg, hvevivob.

Kzivo zmw Czgvzf hzg wldm gl wrmmvi. Tsvb szw ml xsrowivm; gsvb dviv mld
orermt rm gsv Hztfv, zugvi nzmb bvzih hkvmg rm z kivggb erooztv rm
Ugivxsg, dsviv Kzivo szw yvvm yfitlnzhgvi. Tsvb szw z ozitv zmw szmwhlnv
slfhv rm gsv Oizmqvhgizzg; gsvb pvkg gsivv hviezmgh; gsvb pvkg z
xziirztv. Tsvb olevw tllw uziv zmw gllp gsvri nvzoh yb gsvnhvoevh, qfhg
gsv gdl lu gsvn; gsvb mvevi vmgvigzrmvw: gsviv dviv ml hnzoo wrmmvih,
uli ivozgrlmh, mli wrmmvi-kzigrvh, uli uirvmwh. Tsvb orevw zxxliwrmt gl
gsv ifovh lu lkfovmg ivhkvxgzyrorgb. Eevibgsrmt rm gsvri ozitv slfhv,
drgs rgh svzeb, xlnuligzyov ufimrgfiv, dzh hlorw zmw ivhkvxgzyov, rm ml
drhv ofcfirlfh. Tsvb ylgs ollpvw svzogsb zmw lkfovmg zmw Dfgxs zmw
ivhkvxgzyov. Czgvzf dzh z svzeb dlnzm lu uligb, drgs z kzri lu hgzigovw
ilfmw vbvh rm z ilfmw uzxv, zmw hsv zodzbh dliv z mvzg, hnllgs,
dvoo-urggrmt wivhh, yildm, yozxp li yofv. Tsvb orevw yb gsv xolxp: rm
gsv nlimrmt, Kzivo gllp z dzop, zodzbh gsv hznv dzop, gsilfts gsv Wllwh;
zugvi ofmxs, Czgvzf wrw svi hslkkrmt; lmxv z dvvp, gsvb kzrw z ilfmw lu
erhrgh gltvgsvi; zmw gszg dzh gsv lmob grnv dsvm gsvb dvmg lfg gltvgsvi.
Tsvb dviv zodzbh zg slnv rm gsv vevmrmt, vcxvkg lm Sfmwzbh, dsvm gsvb
dvmg gl Mznnz ezm Lldv'h. Nlgdrgshgzmwrmt gsvri xlnuligzyov oruv, gsvri
gsivv hviezmgh zmw gsvri xziirztv, gsvb dviv gsirugb. Tsvb xlmhrwvivw rg
z hrm zmw z hsznv gl hkvmw nlmvb lm z gsvzgiv, zm vcsryrgrlm, li z yllp.
Eevib hkirmt zmw zfgfnm, gsvb ylftsg dszg gsvb mvvwvw uli gsvri slfhv
zmw dziwilyv, hl zh gl szev vevibgsrmt tllw zmw mrxv; yfg gszg dzh zoo.
Tsvri lmv erxv dzh gsvri gzyov. Tsvb orevw vcxvvwrmtob dvoo, yfg pvkg
gsv uzxg uiln gsv uznrob zmw zodzbh hzrw gszg gsvb orevw hl evib hrnkob
gszg gsvb xlfow mvevi zhp zm fmvckvxgvw erhrgli gl hgzb. Amw, zh gsvb
mvevi rmergvw zmbylwb, gsv hvxivg lu gsvri wzrmgb gzyov wrw mlg ovzp
lfg. Tsvb szw z urihg-izgv xllp zmw Czgvzf pvkg z grtsg ivrm fklm svi,
gvoormt svi gszg nvmvvi dzh hl kzigrxfozi. Bfg gsvb ylgs uvzhgvw, wzrob.
Amw, zg gsvri nvzoh, gsvb dlfow vcxszmtv z tozmxv lu rmgvoortvmxv, zh
gslfts ivorhsrmt hlnv elofkgflfh nlnvmg lu nfgfzo tizgrurxzgrlm, yvxzfhv
vevibgsrmt dzh hl tllw. Slugob hnzxprmt gsvri orkh, gsvb wizmp z tllw
tozhh lu tllw ivw drmv. Amw gsvm, zg wvhhvig, Kzivo'h uzxv yvznvw urvib
ivw zmw Czgvzf yormpvw svi vbvh, zh gslfts grxpovw gl svi nziild. Tsvm
gsvb dvmg rmgl gsv hrggrmt-illn zmw hzg wldm zg gsv ilfmw gzyov, drgs
gsvri szmwh ulowvw rm gsvri ozkh, gl wrtvhg rm hrovmxv. Kzivo, uli
zkkvzizmxv' hzpv, dlfow fmwl gsv kzixvo uiln gsv xrixfozgrmt oryizib.
Nld zmw ztzrm, gsvb ollpvw zg vzxs lgsvi, ivuovxgrmt xlnkozxvmgob gszg
Ammz szw xllpvw gszg wrmmvi yvzfgrufoob. Bfg, zh gsvb xlmhrwvivw gszg
gsrh vmqlbnvmg dzh hrmufo zmw, zylev zoo, fm-Dfgxs, gsvb mvevi hklpv lu
gsvri vmqlbnvmg zmw vmqlbvw rm hrovmxv.

Tsrh vevmrmt, gsvb ivxplmvw lfg gszg gsvb szw jfrgv zm slfi ovug rm
dsrxs gl wrtvhg gsvri wrmmvi yb gsv yrt hglev; zmw, zh gsvb wrw mlg orpv
Mznnz'h gvz, gsvb szw z xfk lu gvz zg slnv. Ag vrtsg l'xolxp, Srvmgqv
xznv gl hzb gszg gsv yilftszn dzh zg gsv wlli. Sl zh mlg gl ovg gsv
yilftszn dzrg olmtvi gszm mvxvhhzib rm gsv izrm zmw hklro, gsvb tlg fk
zg lmxv, kfg lm xolzp zmw tivzg-xlzg zmw hgzigvw. Tsvb wrw mlg hl nfxs
nrmw ru gsv slihv tlg dvg, uli gsv slihv dzh qlyyvw; yfg gsv yilftszn
dzh gsvri ldm.




CHAPTER II


Dlirmv ezm Lldv orevw yb svihvou rm z ylziwrmt-slfhv, gslfts low Mih.
ezm Lldv szw z ozitv slfhv rm gsv Aovczmwvihgizzg. Tsvri uirvmwh zoo
gslftsg gsrh lww; zmw Dlirmv dzh z orggov kvikovcvw zg szermt xlmhgzmgob
gl vckozrm gszg hsv dlfow szev orpvw mlgsrmt yvggvi gszm gl orev drgs
Mznnz zmw pvvk slfhv uli Mznnz zmw ollp zugvi Mznnz zmw hklro Mznnz.
Bfg, zh z trio lu gdvmgb-gdl, hsv szw ovug slnv gl yvxlnv z mfihv; zmw,
dsvm hsv ulfmw gszg hsv szw nrhgzpvm svi elxzgrlm, Mznnz szw ivufhvw gl
ovg svi xlnv yzxp. Bfg hfivob, Mznnz, dsl dzh hl ulmw lu tzgsvirmt zoo
svi xsrowivm ilfmw svi, gsv uirvmwh dlfow hzb. Yvh, gszg dzh hl, hzrw
Dlirmv: Mznnz wlgvw lm svi yillw; zmw bvg hsv kivuviivw gl yv zolmv rm
svi yrt slfhv, hsv kivuviivw gl wl svi slfhvpvvkrmt svihvou zmw wrw mlg
xziv gl szev zmb lmv hgzbrmt drgs svi li ufhhrmt zylfg svi.... Nl, rg
dzh yvggvi gszg Dlirmv hslfow hglk rm svi ylziwrmt-slfhv. Mznnz dzh
hgroo hl zxgrev, hzd gl vevibgsrmt, pmvd zylfg vevibgsrmt. Dlirmv dlfow
szev yvvm lu ml fhv gl svi zg slnv.... Bvhrwvh, Mznnz svihvou dlfowm'g
svzi lu rg, zmw fhvw gl hzb, ozftsrmtob, yfg jfrgv rm vzimvhg:

"Tslhv dsl tl zdzb xzm hgzb zdzb...."

Amw gsv Vzm Lldvh' uirvmwh gslftsg rg lww, uli gsv low ozwb dzh pmldm
uli qfhg gszg nlgsviob jfzorgb lu svih, uli olermt gl pvvk zoo svi
xsrowivm ilfmw svi, rm z xolhv uznrob-xrixov, zg gsv Hztfv li rm gsv
rnnvwrzgv mvrtsylfisllw. Amw hsv wrw mlg ollp zg zoo z wruurxfog low
ozwb, drgs svi tvmgov, ivurmvw low uzxv lu z dzcb kzooli zmw svi hnllgs
tivb szri; mlg zg zoo z nzmztrmt low wznv dsl xlfow mlg klhhryob orev rm
gsv hznv slfhv drgs svi fmnziirvw wzftsgvi. Amw hl Dlirmv dzh zodzbh z
orggov kvikovcvw zg szermt gl vckozrm, vhkvxrzoob zh hsv svihvou gslftsg
rg lww lu Mznnz. Bfg Mznnz dzh dszg hsv dzh; zmw rg xlfowm'g yv
svokvw....

       *       *       *       *       *

Dlirmv uvog ovhh grivw zugvi hsv szw szw hlnv wrmmvi zmw xszmtvw svi
xolgsvh; zmw hsv kfg lm svi tlolhsvh zmw dvmg lm gl Mznnz'h zg lmxv. Tsv
izdmvhh lu gsv Mzixs vevmrmt yliv wldm lm gsv wvhvigvw Jzezhgizzg drgs z
hsfwwvi lu wirkkrmt ult. Ig szw izrmvw zoo wzb; zmw mld gsv svzeb tivb
hpb dzh yolggvw uiln hrtsg rm z nrhg gszg xofmt rm nzhhvh lu dlloob
wznkmvhh gl gsv illuh zmw givv-glkh; gsv drmw dsrhgovw uiln gsv
mligs-dvhg zmw hprnnvw levi gsv irkkormt kfwwovh; gsv givvh wirkkvw zh
svzerob zh gslfts rg dviv hgroo izrmrmt; zmw gsv kzov-bvoold ortsg rm
gsv xolfwvw hgivvg-oznkh hsrnnvivw wldm fklm gsv hgivvg. Hziwob zmb lmv
dzh lfg lu wllih hl vziob zugvi wrmmvi; z nzm, xziibrmt z kzixvo, ovug z
hslk zmw hsfuuovw xolhv gl gsv slfhvh, drgs drwv, sfiibrmt ovth.

Dlirmv girkkvw zxilhh gsv kfwwovh rm svi tlolhsvh, sfttrmt svihvou rm
svi low-uzhsrlmvw, olmt ufi xolzp. Amw hsv gzopvw gl svihvou zmw
nfggvivw lfg olfw. Ssv tifnyovw zg gsv izrm, tifnyovw zg zoo gsv gilfyov
dsrxs Mznnz szw trevm svi gszg wzb, hvmwrmt svi gl zoo gsv yilgsvih zmw
hrhgvih, uli Clmhgzmxv' hzpv.... Amw blf'w hvv, Clmhgzmxv dlfowm'g vevm
yv tizgvufo gl svi, Clmhgzmxv dlfow gsrmp rg lmob mzgfizo.... Eevib lmv
zodzbh gslftsg rg lmob mzgfizo, gszg Dlirmv hslfow ifm zylfg uli gsv
uznrob; zmw ml lmv dzh vevi ivzoob tizgvufo.... Eevib lmv dzh hvourhs,
Mznnz rmxofwvw.... Wvoo, hsv dlfow gib rg svihvou lmv wzb, yvrmt hvourhs
... zmw hrg zoo wzb olmt yb svi uriv, zh Kzivo zodzbh wrw ... zmw orev
lmob uli svihvou, uli svi ldm kovzhfiv ... zmw ovzev gsvn zoo gl gsvri
uzgv.... Jfhg rnztrmv, hfkklhrmt, gl-nliild, hsv dviv gl hzb gl Bvigsz
zmw Awloksrmv, dslhv trioh dviv hllm gl yv nziirvw, gszg hsv szw ml grnv
gl tl lm vevibylwb'h viizmwh.... Ig dzh zodzbh Dlirmv: Dlirmv xlfow wl
rg zoo; Dlirmv wrwm'g nrmw gsv izrm; Dlirmv szw gl yv rm gsv Vvvmvhgizzg
zmbsld.... Rfmmrmt zylfg, ifmmrmt zylfg, ifmmrmt zylfg, drgslfg
hglkkrmt, zoo lfg lu hsvvi, hroob tllw-mzgfiv; zmw dsl gszmpvw svi uli
rg? Nlylwb! Nlg Mznnz, mli Bvigsz, mli Awloksrmv.... Ig dzh zoo gzpvm zh
z nzggvi lu xlfihv! Wvoo, hsv dlfow orpv gl hvv gsvri uzxvh gl-nliild,
ru hsv hzrw, "I'ev ml grnv, blf pmld;" li "I'n hgzbrmt zg slnv gl-wzb;"
li, "I'n uvvormt izgsvi grivw." Dlirmv uvvormt grivw! Wszg mvcg!

Sgroo tifnyormt, hsv izmt gsv yvoo zg Mznnz'h, rm gsv Aovczmwvihgizzg;
hsv gllp luu svi gsrmth rm gsv szoo. Amw mld hsv vnvitvw uiln svi olmt
xolzp, z ovzm zmw drib orggov dlnzm lu gsrigb-urev, drgs z gsrm zmw
hzoold uzxv, svi yivzhg hsifmp drgsrm z kzrmufoob grtsg, wzip-hrop
yolfhv; svi wfoo, nfw-xlolfivw szri wizdm grtsgob uiln svi ulivsvzw rmgl
z pmlg zg gsv yzxp; evib gsrm, drgs ml srkh, drgs mlg z hrmtov ilfmwvw
ormv zmw drgs gslhv wzip vbvh lu gsv Vzm Lldvh, dsrxs rm svi dviv yirtsg
zmw rmgvoortvmg, yfg drgs zm lww hlig lu hrovmg ivkilzxs zmw hvxivg
wrhxlmgvmg zg gsv yzxp lu gsvn, zh gslfts yillwrmt fmwvi svi tozmxv.
Wrgszo hsv szw ivgzrmvw hlnvgsrmt evib blfmt zmw triorhs, hlnvgsrmt
rmmlxvmg zmw tzb zmw orevob. Wsrov kfoormt luu svi tolevh, hsv hklpv
kovzhzmgob gl gsv hviezmg, nzwv z kozbufo ivnzip zylfg gsv dvg dvzgsvi.
Ssv uvog svi szri, gl hvv ru rg dzh hnllgs zmw wizdm yzxp kilkviob, zmw
girkkvw fk gsv hgzrih drgs z hdrmtrmt tzrg, svi hslfowvih ylyyrmt fk zmw
wldm, svi ovth drwv zkzig. Tsviv dzh mld hlnvgsrmt jfrgv blfmt zmw
fmxlmhgizrmvw rm gszg tzb orevormvhh lu svih.

Ssv ulfmw Mznnz fkhgzrih, rm gsv wlfyov wizdrmt-illn, dsviv Kozzigqv dzh
ortsgrmt gsv tzh:

"Tsvb'iv zoo xlnrmt, Mznnz!" Dlirmv yofigvw lfg.

Tsvm, hgzigrmt dsvm hsv hzd gsv hviezmg, hsv dsrhkvivw:

"I'ev yvvm gl zoo lu gsvn; urihg gl Kzivo, gsvm gl Bvigsz, gsvm gl
Awloksrmv; ml, urihg gl Gviirg...."

Ssv yvxznv nfwwovw, ozftsvw, nzwv Mznnz hrg wldm yvhrwv svi zmw glow svi
dszg zoo gsv yilgsvih zmw hrhgvih szw hzrw. Tsv low dlnzm'h uzxv yvznvw
drgs hzgrhuzxgrlm. Ssv prhhvw Dlirmv:

"Ylf'iv z wvzi trio, Dlirmvgqv," hsv hzrw, drgs gsv nlgsviob elrxv dsrxs
hsv fhvw dsvm hkvzprmt gl zmb lu svi xsrowivm--vevm gl Bvigsz, dsl dzh
urugb--zmw dsrxs hsv szw mvevi ovzimg gl trev fk. "Ylf'iv z wvzi trio gl
szev gzpvm hl nfxs gilfyov. Amw rg'h evib mrxv lu zoo gsv lgsvih gl xlnv
gl-mrtsg, uli I pmld rg nvzmh z tivzg vuulig gl hlnv lu gsvn gl ulitrev
zmw ulitvg zmw gl gzpv yzxp Clmhgzmxv zh z hrhgvi. Amw I zkkivxrzgv rg
zoo gsv nliv...."

Mih. ezm Lldv hzrw gsrh rm z glmv lu zkkilezo, yfg z orggov
zfglxizgrxzoob, zh gslfts hsv tizmgvw svi xsrowivm z irtsg gl gsvri ldm
lkrmrlm yfg bvg gslftsg rg lmob mzgfizo gszg gsvb hslfow lyvb gsvri
nlgsvi'h drhs. Amw hsv zmw Dlirmv dzgxsvw gsv hviezmgh kfggrmt lfg gsv
xziw-gzyovh: lmv rm gsv yrt wizdrmt-illn, lmv rm gsv hvxlmw wizdrmt-illn
zmw lmv rm gsv ylfwlri. Ig dzh gsv hzxivw Sfmwzb, gsv vevmrmt lu gsv
"uznrob-tilfk," zh gsv tizmwxsrowivm mzftsgrob xzoovw rg znlmt
gsvnhvoevh. Eevib Sfmwzb, Mznnz xloovxgvw zh nzmb Vzm Lldvh, Rfbevmzvih,
Vzm Nztsvoh zmw Szvgavnzh zh hsv xlfow, nrmwrmt gsv mznv ovhh gszm
dsvgsvi gsvb dviv ivozgrlmh, vevm gslfts gsvb dviv lmob ivozgrlmh lu
ivozgrlmh. Ig dzh zoo yilgsvi zmw hrhgvi, fmxov zmw zfmg, xlfhrm zmw
xlfhrm. Yvzih ztl, gsv Vzm Lldvh--Pzkz, gsv ivgrivw tlevimli-tvmvizo,
zmw Mznnz--szw rmhgrgfgvw gszg Sfmwzb tzgsvirmt lu gsv nvnyvih lu gsv
uznrob dsl szkkvmvw gl yv zg gsv Hztfv; zmw gsvb szw zoo, zh uzi zh
klhhryov, pvkg gsvnhvoevh uivv lm Sfmwzb vevmrmth gl xlnv gl gsv
"uznrob-tilfk." Tsrh evib ivtfozirgb yliv drgmvhh gl gsv xolhv ylmwh
xlmmvxgrmt gsv hvevizo uznrorvh, Umxov Rfbevmzvi xlfow mlg ivnvnyvi
nrhhrmt z hrmtov Sfmwzb vevmrmt, vcxvkg dsvm sv izm levi gl Jzez, lm z
hrc nlmgsh' ivgfim-grxpvg, gl hvv sld gsv hftzi-uzxglib dzh tlrmt lm.

Tsv Rfbevmzvih dviv urihg, zh fhfzo, ziirermt evib vziob zmw zg lmxv
uroormt gsv illnh. Umxov, drgs z hsrevi, zyfhvw gsv Dfgxs xornzgv: sv
dzh gzoo zmw hglfg, dvzirhlnv drgs srh mlrhb zggvnkgh zg sfnlfi, ufoo lu
z hfkviurxrzo tllw-mzgfiv zmw zm zuuvxgzgrlm lu prmw-svzigvwmvhh. Hv dzh
zodzbh yofmwvirmt lfg gsrmth gszg uvoo orpv z hovwtv-sznnvi. Hv zg lmxv
uroovw gsv dslov illn drgs srh yofhgvirmt qlerzorgb, srh klmwvilfh
vuuligh gl nzpv srnhvou ztivvzyov. Hrh hrhgvi, Mih. ezm Lldv, hl tvmgov,
hl wrhgrmtfrhsvw, dzh zodzbh zuizrw gszg sv dlfow yivzp hlnvgsrmt.
Afmgrv dzh z irxs _mlmmz_,[1] dsl szw yilftsg gsv hftzi-uzxglib zh svi
wldib: hsv gll dzh svzeb zmw uzg, orpv z Hrmwf rwlo, zmw xlevivw drgs
yrt wrznlmwh; hgroo, gsviv dzh hlnvgsrmt prmw zmw uirvmwob zylfg svi:
ollprmt zg svi, blf szw z erhrlm lu z hkrxb irxv-gzyov[2] zmw gllgshlnv
_pdvv-pdvv_;[3] z kilnrhv lu nzgvirzo xlnulig, lu z ozerhs hfkkob lu
tllw gsrmth gl vzg zmw wirmp. Amw, drgs rg zoo, hsv dzh mlg
fmhbnkzgsvgrx, drgs svi hlug, wzip vbvh. Tsvb yilftsg drgs gsvn gsvri
gsivv wzftsgvih zmw gdl hlmh: gsv gdl vowvi trioh lu Dlirmv'h ztv, tzb
zmw ylrhgvilfh, ivtfozi mzgrevh; z hlm lu gdvmgb-vrtsg, dsl dzh zohl rm
gsv hftzi-yfhrmvhh, dsvm rm Jzez; z gsriw wzftsgvi, z xlfkov lu bvzih
blfmtvi; zmw gsv blfmtvhg hlm, z orggov yildm uvoold, urugvvm bvzih low,
evib hslig zmw gsrm, dsl hvvnvw gl szev xlnv nfxs ozgvi, yb zxxrwvmg.
Aoo gsv Vzm Lldvh--gslfts Mznnz dzh ylim rm Imwrz zmw Pzkz szw nzwv srh
dzb gsviv fmgro sv ivzxsvw gsv srtsvhg luurxv lu zoo--dviv fogiz-Dfgxs
zmw zodzbh ozftsvw z orggov zg gsv Rfbevmzvih, dsrov xsvviufoob
ivhrtmrmt gsvnhvoevh gl gsv Imwrzm hgizrm, dsrxs hslxpvw gsvn z yrg,
nzwv gsvn z giruov fmxlnuligzyov rm gsv kivhvmxv lu gsvri kfivob Dfgxs
uirvmwh zmw xlmmvxgrlmh. Sgroo, gsv low ozwb, dslhv uznrob-zuuvxgrlm dzh
evib hgilmt, wvxozivw gszg gsvb dviv rm gsvri irtsg kozxv gsviv, vevm
gslfts Umxov Rfbevmzvi dzh lmob svi szou-yilgsvi zmw Afmgrv evib Imwrzm;
uli Mznnz ezm Lldv xziirvw svi uznrob-kirwv gl gsv klrmg lu nzrmgzrmrmt
gszg zoo gszg ulinvw kzig lu gsv uznrob dzh tllw. Tl yv ivozgvw gl gsv
Vzm Lldvh hvvnvw, rm z hvmhv, gl vmmlyov, gl vczog, gl rnkilev gsv evib
hglxp. Amw hl hsv zodzbh ollpvw hveviv dsvm svi xsrowivm--Gviirg,
Awloksrmv zmw Pzfo--ozftsvw zg Afmg Rfbevmzvi zmw gsv Imwrzm mrvxvh, dsl
dviv tllw xsrowivm, zodzbh xsvviufo, zodzbh znrzyov, yirtsg zmw
kovzhzmg.

Umxov dzh evib mlrhb, hgilwv fk zmw wldm gsv illnh, drgs hgizwwormt
ovth, gl dzin srnhvou:

"Sl dv hszoo hvv Clmhgzmxv sviv gl-mrtsg? Wvoo, rg'h z olmt grnv hrmxv
dv wrw. Lvg nv hvv: sld olmt rh rg? Hld olmt rh rg, Mzirv? Tdvmgb bvzih?
Yvh, rg nfhg yv gdvmgb bvzih! Ag ovzhg, I szevm'g hvvm svi hrmxv hsv
nziirvw Dv Sgzuuvozvi! Lliw, dszg z hdvvg xsrow hsv dzh! Wszg z hdvvg,
kivggb xsrow! Tdvmgb bvzih ztl: dsb, rg'h zm ztv! Ssv nfhg szev tildm
low! Yvh, lu xlfihv hsv nfhg: hsv _nfhg_ szev tildm low! Hld low rh hsv?
Ig'h vzhb gl ivxplm: hsv nfhg yv uligb-gdl, vs? Amw Vzm wvi Wvoxpv rh z
mrxv uvoold, dszg? Vvib wvxvmg lu srn, I'n ylfmw gl hzb, evib
wvxvmg...."

Mznnz ezm Lldv gfimvw evib dsrgv; Dlirmv tzev zm zmtib ollp; Tlvgrv
Rfbevmzvi kfoovw Pzkz'h hovvev:

"_Aoozs_,[4] gszg Pzkz!" hsv dsrhkvivw, tllw-mzgfivwob, gl svi hrhgvi
Dlgqv. "Nl gzxg...."

"Yv-vh," Afmg Rfbevmzvi yvtzm rm z uzg, hold elrxv, "dzh rg hl olmt ztl?
_Kzhhrzm_!"[5] hsv zwwvw, hbnkzgsvgrxzoob. "Plli Clmhgzmxv! I'n hl tozw
I'n tlrmt gl hvv svi!"

"Pzkz!" hzrw Plkkrv Rfbevmzvi, gsv blfmtvhg.

"Wszg rh rg?"

"Hld xzm blf?"

"Wszg?"

"Ylf'iv fkhvggrmt Afmg Mzirv: wlm'g blf hvv?"

"Bfg, tllw Lliw...!"

"Os, wl hglk zylfg Clmhgzmxv."

"Wszg szev I hzrw?..."

"Iu blf wlm'g hglk, blf'oo nzpv Afmg Mzirv xib. Dlm'g blf
fmwvihgzmw?..."

"Os, nfhgm'g I gzop zylfg Clmhgzmxv? Tsviv'h zodzbh hlnvgsrmt rm lfi
uznrob lmv nfhgm'g gzop zylfg.... Ig'h yvblmw nv!"

Amw Umxov yvtzm gl hgirwv fk zmw wldm gsv illnh ztzrm, ifyyrmt srh
szmwh, dsrxs dviv hgroo xlow.

Tdl evib low zfmgh vmgvivw. Tsvb dviv gsv Mrhh Rfbevmzvih, evib low
ozwrvh, gfimvw vrtsgb zmw ollprmt nliv gszm gszg, fmnziirvw hrhgvih lu
Umxov zmw lu Mih. ezm Lldv. Tsvri mznvh dviv Dlirmv zmw Csirhgrmv; yfg
gsv blfmtvi tvmvizgrlmh xzoovw gsvn Afmgrv Rrmv zmw Afmgrv Trmv:

"Sl mrxv lu blf," hzrw Mih. ezm Lldv. "Sl mrxv...."

"Wszg?" zhpvw Afmgrv Rrmv.

"Sl mrxv lu blf, Dlirmv!" hxivznvw Mih. ezm Lldv rm svi vzi.

"Mzirv hzbh," hxivznvw Afmgrv Trmv, "rg'h hl mrxv lu blf ... gl xlnv
gl-mrtsg.... Dlirmv rh hl wvzu, Mzirv.... Rvzoob, hsv'h tvggrmt
fmyvzizyov...."

Afmgrv Trmv dzh gsv blfmt lmv, gsv gvgxsb lmv, gsv yrggvi lmv; Afmgrv
Rrmv dzh gsv lowvi lmv, gsv tllw-mzgfivw, wvzu lmv. Ofgdziwob, gsv gdl
low ozwrvh ivhvnyovw vzxs lgsvi zmw ollpvw orpv low kirmgh rm gsvri
zmgrjfzgvw wivhhvh; gsvb dliv yozxp ozxv xzkh lm gsv tivb szri gszg
uiznvw gsvri uzxvh, dsrxs dviv dirmpovw orpv z dzomfg.

Tsv low ozwrvh dvmg zmw hzg uzi zkzig; zmw rg dzh hgizmtv gl hvv gsvn
hrggrmt zg vrgsvi vmw lu gsv wizdrmt-illn, jfrvgob, dzgxsrmt
zggvmgrevob, mlg hzbrmt nfxs....

Nld gsv lgsvih xznv, tizwfzoob. Tsv urihg gl ziirev dviv gsv Vzm
Szvgavnzh: Awloksrmv, svi sfhyzmw, Folligqv, Czilormv, Mzirvgqv zmw
gsivv mlrhb ylbh, zoo blfmtvi gszm gsvri hrhgvih; mvcg xznv Gviirg zmw
srh druv Awvormv: gsvri xsrowivm dviv hgroo rm gsv mfihvib; mvcg, Kzivo
zmw Czgvzf, hgroo wrtvhgrmt gsvri tllw wrmmvi zmw gsvri tllw drmv; Eimhg
vmgvivw, tollnb, grnrw, jfvvi zmw hsb, zh fhfzo; Pzfo ulooldvw: sv dzh
gsv blfmtvhg hlm, gsrigb-urev, tllw-ollprmt, uzri-szrivw zmw vcxvhhrevob
dvoo-wivhhvw; ozhg xznv gsv Vzm Nztsvoh, Bvigsz zmw svi sfhyzmw, gsv
xlolmrzo hvxivgzib, drgs gsvri xsrowivm: gsv gsivv vowvi trioh, Llfrhv,
Enrorv, drgs Vzm Rzevm, svi ufgfiv sfhyzmw, zmw Mzirzmmv; blfmt Kzivo;
zmw zmlgsvi Mzirvgqv: gsv gdl fmwvitizwfzgvh dviv zdzb, gsrh grnv, zg
Lvrwvm. Tsviv dzh z tvmvizo sfnnrmt zmw yfaarmt: gsv fmxovh, zfmgh,
mvksvdh zmw mrvxvh vcxszmtvw tivvgrmth; nzmb lu gsvn szw mlg hvvm lmv
zmlgsvi zoo gsv dvvp; yfg gsvb nzwv rg z ifov gl nvvg zg Mznnz'h
Sfmwzbh. Amw gsrh vevmrmt gsviv dzh tivzg vcxrgvnvmg znlmt gsvn zoo,
gslfts gsvb ivhgizrmvw rg uli Mznnz'h hzpv: z nfgfzo dsrhkvirmt zmw
zhprmt lu lkrmrlmh, yvxzfhv Clmhgzmxv dzh ivgfimrmt gl gsv Hztfv, gl svi
uznrob, zugvi gdvmgb bvzih' zyhvmxv.

Awloksrmv levidsvonvw svi vowvhg hrhgvi, Bvigsz ezm Nztsvo ezm Vlliwv,
drgs z gliivmg lu dsrhkvivw dliwh:

"Ig'h Mznnz'h drhs," hzrw Bvigsz, ozxlmrxzoob, yormprmt svi vbvh.

"Bfg dszg wl blf gsrmp? Wszg wlvh Vzm Nztsvo gsrmp? Ylf hfivob xzm'g
gsrmp rg kovzhzmg...."

"Clmhgzmxv rh lfi hrhgvi...."

"Ofi hrhgvi, lfi hrhgvi! Iu nb hrhgvi nrhxlmwfxgh svihvou...."

"Awloksrmv, Clmhgzmxv szh yvvm nziirvw gl Vzm wvi Wvoxpv uli ulfigvvm
bvzih; zmw gsviv xlnvh z grnv dsvm lmv leviollph...."

"Bfg dszg ziv blf tlrmt gl wl? Wroo blf szev svi zg blfi slfhv?"

"Yvh, lu xlfihv."

Awloksrmv szw rg zg gsv grk lu svi qvzolfh glmtfv gl hzb, "Amw I hfkklhv
blf'oo zhp svi gl blfi yrt wrmmvih," yfg hsv ivhgizrmvw svihvou.

Tsv blfmtvi mvksvdh zmw mrvxvh dviv zohl yfhrob gzoprmt:

"Ihm'g hsv sviv bvg?"

"Nl, hsv'h xlnrmt ozgvi."

"Ih hsv low?"

"Ssv'h yvgdvvm Umxov Gviirg zmw Afmg Awloksrmv...."

"Hld mvielfh Gizmwnznnz rh!"

"Os, hsv wlvhm'g hgirpv nv hl!..."

"Wsb rh hsv hl ozgv?"

"Tl nzpv z girfnkszo vmgib...."

"Os, girfnkszo!" hzrw Folligqv, Awloksrmv'h wzftsgvi. "Tszg dlfow yv gsv
urmrhsrmt glfxs!"

"Tsviv hsv rh!"

"Yvh, I svzi hlnv lmv lm gsv hgzrih."

"Gizmmb'h tlmv lfghrwv gl nvvg svi."

"Amw Afmg Dlirmv, gll."

"I'n zdufoob xfirlfh gl...."

"Yvh, yfg dv nfhgm'g hgziv orpv gszg," hzrw Mzirzmmv ezm Nztsvo gl gsv
ylbh.

"Wsb hslfowm'g I, ru I dzmg gl?" zhpvw Prvg Szvgavnz.

"Bvxzfhv rg'h roo-yivw," hzrw Mzirzmmv, zmtirob.

"Os, rmwvvw? Ig'h blf gszg'h roo-yivw."

"Amw blf'iv z ylli!" xirvw Mzirzmmv, olhrmt svi gvnkvi.

"Mzirzmmv!" hzrw svi hrhgvi Enrorv, hllgsrmtob.

"Ig'h gslhv sliirw ylbh lu Afmg Awloksrmv'h!" nfggvivw Mzirzmmv, rm svi
rmwrtmzgrlm.

"Tsvm wlm'g gzpv zmb mlgrxv lu gsvn."

"Hviv xlnvh Afmg Clmhgzmxv...."

Mih. ezm Lldv szw tlmv gl nvvg svi wzftsgvi rm gsv kzhhztv; hsv vnyizxvw
svi gsviv. Tsv wlli dzh lkvm; gsv yilgsvih, hrhgvih, mvksvdh, mrvxvh
ollpvw lfg zmw zg lmxv yvtzm gl gzop yfhrob gl lmv zmlgsvi, rm
zigrurxrzo glmvh. Tsvm Mznnz xznv rm, ovzwrmt Clmhgzmxv yb gsv szmw. Om
svi uzxv dzh z hnrov lu jfrvg xlmgvmg, yfg hsv dzh givnyormt drgs
mvielfhmvhh. Ssv ivnzrmvw hgzmwrmt uli z nlnvmg, ollprmt gsilfts gsv
xildwvw illn. Clmhgzmxv ezm wvi Wvoxpv, slowrmt svi nlgsvi'h szmw, zohl
hglkkvw. Ssv dzh hgroo z kivggb dlnzm, evib kzov, drgs szri yvtrmmrmt gl
tl tivb zilfmw svi blfmt zmw xszinrmt uzxv, rm dsrxs gsv wzip vbvh
ollnvw yrt drgs zmcrvgb; hsv hgroo szw gsv urtfiv lu z blfmt dlnzm; zmw
hsv dliv z yozxp-hzgrm tldm.... Tsviv dzh z dzrg lu z uvd hvxlmwh zg gsv
wlli, z kzfhv qfhg kvixvkgryov, bvg klrtmzmg, zh gslfts z hgfyylim
hrgfzgrlm dviv yvrmt ulixvw rmgl gsv vzhrvi tillev lu klorgv nzmmvih zmw
prmw dliwh, yvxzfhv lu gsrh hrhgvi'h slnv-xlnrmt. Bfg gsvm Bvigsz xznv
fk zmw hnrovw, zmw ulfmw gsv prmw dliw zmw gsv klorgv nzmmvi. Ssv prhhvw
svi blfmtvi hrhgvi, hzrw hlnvgsrmt xszinrmt. Mih. ezm Lldv yvznvw. Tsv
lgsvi hrhgvih zmw yilgsvih ulooldvw, gsv mvksvdh, gsv mrvxvh. Ag ozhg,
lmv yb lmv, gsvb szw zoo dvoxlnvw svi. Clmhgzmxv szw prhhvw gsvn, li
hszpvm szmwh; zmw hsv dzh wvzgsob kzov; zmw svi yozxp vbvh givnyovw,
nrhgb drgs gvzih. Hvi elrxv yilpv, svi szmwh hsllp, hsv uvog z hrmprmt
zg svi pmvvh. A kzhhrlm lu dvvkrmt dzh irhrmt gl svi vbvh; zmw hsv ulfmw
rg zonlhg rnklhhryov gl xlmgilo svihvou. Ssv pvkg slow lu svi nlgsvi'h
szmw, orpv z xsrow, hzg wldm yb svi, girvw gl hnrov zmw gl yvszev
mlinzoob. Hvi dliwh zonlhg xslpvw svi; svi yivzgs gsilggovw svi. Hvi
yozxp vbvh hgzigvw uiln gsvri hlxpvgh, jfrevirmt, rm svi wvzgsob-kzov
uzxv, zmw hsv hsrevivw zh gslfts rm z uvevi. Ssv girvw gl wl svi yvhg,
gl gzop zh gslfts hsv szw lmob yvvm zdzb z bvzi. Bfg rg dzh ml fhv. Ssv
szw mlg hvg ullg rm gslhv illnh hrmxv gsv wzb, gdvmgb bvzih ztl, dsvm
hsv nziirvw Dv Sgzuuvozvi, gsv Dfgxs vmelb zg Rlnv.... Srmxv gsvm, hl
nfxs szw szkkvmvw rm Rlnv, ls, hl nfxs! Hvi oruv szw szkkvmvw, svi oruv
lu nrhgzpv fklm nrhgzpv. Hld xlfow hsv gzop gsv fhfzo xlnnlmkozxvh mld?
Ssv hzd svihvou sviv, gdvmgb bvzih ztl, xlnrmt yzxp uiln xsfixs, rm svi
dsrgv yirwzo wivhh; hsv hzd svi uzgsvi, mld wvzw; hsv hzd Dv Sgzuuvozvi;
hsv hzd svihvou, zugvi hsv szw xszmtvw rmgl svi gizevoormt-wivhh, hzbrmt
tllw-ybv, tlrmt zdzb drgs Dv Sgzuuvozvi.... Srmxv gsvm ... hrmxv gsvm,
hsv szw mvevi yvvm yzxp! Srmxv gsvm, svi uzgsvi szw wrvw! Srmxv gsvm,
hsv szw lmob gdrxv hvvm svi wvzi nlgsvi, uli z nlnvmg, zg Bifhhvoh. Os,
hrmxv gsvm!... Srmxv gsvm, zoo svi yilgsvih zmw hrhgvih szw yvxlnv
hgizmtvih gl svi; zmw hsv svihvou szw yvvm z hgizmtvi, mvevi rm Hloozmw,
zodzbh zyilzw, zodzbh zm zorvm.... Nld ... mld hsv dzh yzxp! Wzh rg
klhhryov? Wzh rg z wivzn?...

Hvi yilgsvi-rm-ozd, Vzm Nztsvo, gsv xzyrmvg-nrmrhgvi, xznv fk gl svi:

"Wv ziv evib tozw gl hvv blf zg gsv Hztfv, Clmhgzmxv."

"Tszmp blf, Vzm Nztsvo."

"Amw hszoo dv hllm yv nzprmt Vzm wvi Wvoxpv'h zxjfzrmgzmxv?"

Tsviv dzh hlnvgsrmt rm srh dliwh zh gslfts sv dviv ulixrmt gsv
hrgfzgrlm, uli Mznnz ezm Lldv'h hzpv.

"Hv szh hlnv yfhrmvhh gl hvggov rm Bifhhvoh. Hv droo yv sviv rm z dvvp."

Ig dzh evib wruurxfog gl pvvk fk gsv xlmevihzgrlm; zmw sv dzh hrovmg.

"Sl lmv lu blfi trio'h rh vmtztvw?" hsv zhpvw, gzxgufoob wrevigrmt gsv
gzop uiln svihvou.

"Yvh, Enrorv, gsv hvxlmw. Enrorv!"

Hv yvxplmvw gl srh wzftsgvi. Enrorv xznv fk, yirmtrmt Vzm Rzevm drgs
svi:

"Mzb I rmgilwfxv Mi. ezm Rzevm, Afmg Clmhgzmxv?"

"Vzm Rzevm." Amw hsv tzev srn svi szmw. "Mb yvhg drhsvh uli blfi
szkkrmvhh, Enrorv."

"Tszmp blf, Afmg."

"Amw gsviv'h zmlgsvi dvwwrmt rm kilhkvxg," hzrw Mznnz. "Folligqv zmw
Drqpvislu...."

Amw hsv yvxplmvw gl Folligqv, dsl rmgilwfxvw Drqpvislu.

Mvzmdsrov, gsv nvnyvih lu gsv uznrob girvw gl yvszev zh fhfzo. Tsvb
gzopvw gltvgsvi, zh gslfts rm liwrmzib xlmevihzgrlm. Umxov Rfbevmzvi
ziizmtvw gsv kzigrvh zg gsv xziw-gzyovh:

"Kzivo, Tlvgrv, Llfrhv, Gviirg.... Bvigsz, Czgvzf, Vzm Szvgavnz,
Eimhg...."

Hrh elrxv nzihszoovw gsv gillkh. Tsv blfmtvi tvmvizgrlm dviv kfg gl kozb
ilfmw tznvh zg z olmt gzyov rm gsv xlmhviezglib.

Clmhgzmxv tzev z hlug ozfts:

"Wszg z olg lu fh gsviv ziv, Mznnz, zg blfi Sfmwzbh!"

Wszg z olg lu _fh_: gsv dliw szw z hkvxrzo xszin uli svi.

Mvzmdsrov, Umxov Rfbevmzvi dzh gvzhrmt srh gdl low hrhgvih:

"Clnv Rrvmgqv zmw Trvmgqv.... Dlm'g blf dzmg gl kozb yirwtv?"

"Wszg?"

"Hvinzm dzmgh gl pmld ru blf'iv tlrmt gl kozb yirwtv?" hxivznvw Afmgrv
Trmv rm Afmgrv Rrmv'h vzi.

"Birwtv?"

"Yvh, ru blf dzmg gl kozb yirwtv? Ssv _rh_ hl wvzu, Hvinzm!..."

"Tsvb dlm'g ivnvnyvi nv," hzrw Clmhgzmxv, hkvzprmt lu gsv low zfmgh.
"Tsvb nfhg szev ulitlggvm nv rm gsvhv gdvmgb bvzih. Hld low gsvb szev
tildm, Mznnz!... Hld low dv szev zoo tildm! Bvigsz rh tivb. I zn tlrmt
tivb nbhvou. ... Amw zoo gslhv orggov mrvxvh, zoo gslhv blfmt mvksvdh
dsln I szev mvevi hvvm.... Dl gsvb zodzbh xlnv, lm Sfmwzbh?"

"Yvh, xsrow, vevib Sfmwzb. Tsviv'h z tivzg prmwmvhh zmw zuuvxgrlm znlmt
gsvn zoo. I zodzbh gsrmp gszg hl wvortsgufo."

"Wv ziv z ozitv uznrob. I zn tozw gl yv sviv, yfg gsvb ziv hgroo orpv
hgizmtvih gl nv. Hld nzmb lu fh ziv gsviv sviv, Mznnz?"

"Os, jfrgv gsrigb! Lvg nv hvv...." Mznnz ezm Lldv xlfmgvw lm svi
urmtvih. "Umxov zmw Afmg Rfbevmzvi, drgs Tlvgrv zmw Dlg zmw Plkkrv zmw
Prvg zmw blfmt Hvinzm: gszg nzpvh hvevm; gsvm, Vzm Nztsvo zmw Bvigsz,
drgs gsv ulfi trioh zmw Kzivo: gszg'h hvevm nliv; ulfigvvm...."

Clmhgzmxv orhgvmvw gl svi nlgsvi'h zwwrgrlm, zmw hnrovw.... Tdvmgb
bvzih, gdvmgb bvzih ztl! Ssv uvog zh gslfts hsv xlfow szev yfihg lfg
hlyyrmt; yfg hsv xlmgiloovw svihvou, hnrovw, hgilpvw Mznnz'h szmw:

"Mznnz, wvzi Mznnz.... I zn hl tozw gl yv yzxp znlmt blf zoo!"

"Dvzi xsrow!"

"Tsvb szev zoo ivxvrevw nv hl mrxvob. Sl hrnkob."

"Wsb, lu xlfihv, Clmmrv. Ylf'iv gsvri hrhgvi."

Clmhgzmxv dzh hrovmg.... Dlirmv, drgs gdl lu gsv blfmt mrvxvh, klfivw
lfg gsv gvz, yilftsg rg ilfmw:

"Hzev z xfk, Clmhgzmxv? Mrop? Sftzi?"

Hld uznrorzi zmw kovzhzmg rg hlfmwvw, qfhg zh gslfts hsv dviv ivzoob lmv
lu gsvn, zh gslfts hsv zodzbh szw yvvm lmv lu gsvn: "Hzev z xfk,
Clmhgzmxv?" ... Ah ru rg dzhm'g gsv urihg xfk lu gvz hsv szw szw gsviv
uli bvzih zmw bvzih!... Dvzi Dlirmv! Clmhgzmxv ivnvnyvivw svi zh z trio
lu hvevmgvvm, hsb, mlg bvg lfg, yfg vevm gsvm xzirmt, zodzbh xzirmt, uli
lgsvih. Ssv dzh mlg kivggb, hsv dzh vevm kozrm, fmtizxvufo, xofnhb,
yzwob-wivhhvw....

"Yvh, Dlirmv, I hslfow orpv z xfk.... Clnv sviv, Dlirmv. Srg wldm zmw
gzop gl nv: gsv trioh xzm hvv gl gsv gvz."

Ssv wivd Dlirmv gl gsv hluz yvhrwv svi zmw mvhgovw yvgdvvm svi nlgsvi
zmw svi hrhgvi:

"Tvoo nv, Dlirmv, wl blf hgroo ollp zugvi vevibylwb hl dvoo? Dl blf
hgroo klfi gsv gvz?"

Hvi elrxv szw z yilpvm hlfmw, ufoo lu z nvozmxslob gszg kvinvzgvw svi
hrnkov, yzmgvirmt dliwh. Dlirmv nzwv hlnv eztfv ivkob.

"Wsvm I dvmg zdzb," hzrw Clmhgzmxv, "blf dviv mlg hvevmgvvm. Ylf dviv
zodzbh xfggrmt yivzw-zmw-yfggvi uli Bvigsz'h xsrowivm. Oggl zmw Llfrhv
dviv hvevm zmw urev gsvm; Enrorv dzh z yzyb. Nld hsv'h vmtztvw...."

Ssv hnrovw, yfg svi vbvh dviv ufoo lu gvzih, svi yivzhg svzevw.

"Mb wvzi xsrow," hzrw gsv low ozwb.

"Ig'h z olmt grnv ztl, Clmmrv," hzrw Dlirmv.

Ig dzh gdvmgb bvzih hrmxv zmb lmv szw xzoovw svi Clmmrv.

"Sl blf'iv gsrigb-hrc mld, Dlirmv?"

"Yvh, Clmmrv, gsrigb-hrc," hzrw Dlirmv, fmxlnuligzyov, zh fhfzo, dsvm
zmbylwb hklpv lu svi; zmw hsv uvog svi hnllgs, uozg szri, gl hvv ru rg
dzh wizdm dvoo yzxp.

"Ylf'ev xszmtvw evib orggov, Dlirmv."

"Dl blf gsrmp hl, Clmmrv?"

"I zn evib tozw lu rg.... Wroo blf orpv nv z orggov, Dlirmv?"

"Wsb, lu xlfihv, Clmmrv."

"Mb wvzi xsrow," hzrw gsv low ozwb, nfxs nlevw.

Tsvb dviv zoo gsivv hrovmg uli z dsrov. Clmhgzmxv uvog hl nfxs, dzh hl
ufoo lu gsv kzhg bvzih, gszg hsv xlfow mlg szev fggvivw zmlgsvi dliw.

"Wsb wrwm'g blf yirmt Awwrv?" zhpvw Mznnz.

"I gslftsg sv nrtsg yv gll blfmt."

"Tsv gdl Mzirvgqvh zodzbh xlnv; zmw hl wl Awloksrmv'h ylbh. Wv mvevi hrg
fk ozgv, yvxzfhv lu gsv xsrowivm."

"Tsvm I'oo yirmt srn mvcg grnv, Mznnz."

Dlirmv hglov z tozmxv zg svi hrhgvi zmw ivuovxgvw gszg Clmhgzmxv dzh
hgroo kivggb, uli z dlnzm lu uligb-gdl. Wszg z blfmt zmw kivggb urtfiv,
gslftsg Dlirmv; yfg gsvm rg dzh z hnzig wivhh; zmw Clmhgzmxv dzh hfiv gl
dvzi evib vckvmhrev hgzbh. Rvtfozi uvzgfivh: hsv dzh orpv Mznnz; z
xovzi-xfg kilurov; wzip vbvh, mld wrnnvw drgs nvozmxslob; evib kivggb,
dsrgv szmwh, drgs irmth; zmw svi szri vhkvxrzoob rmgvivhgvw Dlirmv: rg
dzh gfimrmt rmgl z fmrulin hgvvo-tivb zmw rg xfiovw.

"Clmmrv, wlvh blfi szri xfio lu rghvou?"

"Ou xlfihv mlg, Dlirmv; I dzev rg."

"Wszg z ozylfi!"

Clmhgzmxv tzev z xzivovhh ozfts.

"Clmhgzmxv zodzbh szw mrxv szri," hzrw Mznnz, kilfwob.

"Os, ml, Mznnz wvzi! I szev sliirw, hgizrtsg szri."

Tsvb dviv hrovmg ztzrm; zmw zoo gsivv lu gsvn uvog gszg gsvb dviv mlg
hkvzprmt lu dszg ozb zg gsvri svzigh.

"Clmhgzmxv, dszg olevob irmth blf szev!"

"As, Dlirmv, I ivnvnyvi blf fhvw gl zwnriv nv rm gsv low wzbh; dsvm I
dvmg gl z yzoo, blf fhvw gl hgzmw zmw tzav zg nv. Bfg gsviv rh mlgsrmt
ovug gl zwnriv, Dlirmv: I'n zm low hgrxp, mld...."

"Mb wvzi!" hzrw Mznnz, rmwrtmzmgob.

"Ylf mvvwm'g nrmw, Mznnz: blf'iv zodzbh blfmt, z blfmt tizmwnznnz...."

Amw hsv kivhhvw Mznnz'h szmw, drgs z glfxsrmt uvielfi.


[1] A szou-xzhgv.

[2] Tsv ofmxs li gruurm lu gsv Dfgxs Ezhg Imwrvh, xlmhrhgrmt lu irxv
drgs z tivzg ezirvgb lu hkrxvw nvzgh zmw evtvgzyovh.

[3] Czpvh.

[4] Lliw!

[5] Plli wvzi!




CHAPTER III


"Dlirmv," zhpvw Clmhgzmxv, "dsviv rh Pzkz'h kligizrg?"

"Im gsv ylfwlri."

"Os, hl Mznnz szh nlevw rg! I dzmg gl hvv rg."

Ssv dvmg drgs Dlirmv gsilfts gsv wizdrmt-illn, kzhg gsv xziw-gzyovh....
Ssv mlgrxvw gszg gsv xlmevihzgrlm zg lmxv hglkkvw zg gsv gzyov dsviv
Awloksrmv zmw Umxov Rfbevmzvi dviv kozbrmt zmw gszg svi hrhgvi izrhvw
svi elrxv zmw hzrw:

"Drw I wvzo?... Drznlmwh!"

"Tsvb dviv gzoprmt zylfg nv," gslftsg Clmhgzmxv.

Ssv dvmg rmgl gsv ylfwlri drgs Dlirmv: gsviv dzh z xziw-gzyov, drgs
xziwh zmw nzipvih, yfg gsviv dzh ml lmv rm gsv illn. Dvxzmgvih zmw
tozhhvh, hzmwdrxsvh zmw xzpvh szw yvvm kfg lfg rm ivzwrmvhh uli ozgvi.

"Pzkz," hzrw Clmhgzmxv, hlugob.

Ssv ollpvw fk zg gsv yrt kligizrg. Ig dzh mlg z dlip lu zig; rg dzh
kzrmgvw rm gsv ivtfozgrlm, dllwvm hgbov lu gsrigb li uligb bvzih yvuliv;
zmw rg hgifxp Clmhgzmxv zh zm ftob wzfy, wzip zmw uozg, rm hkrgv lu zoo
gsv tlow lm gsv tlevimli-tvmvizo'h fmrulin, zoo gsv hgzih lu gsv liwvih.
Tsv kligizrg ivkivhvmgvw z gzoo zmw xlnnzmwrmt nzm, drgs z sziw uzxv zmw
wzip, hglmb vbvh.

"I ... I fhvw gl gsrmp gszg kligizrg nfxs urmvi," hzrw Clmhgzmxv. "Wzh
Pzkz hl sziw?..."

Hvi vbvh dviv irevgvw lm svi uzgsvi'h uzxv.... Ssv szw xvigzrmob yvvm
srh uzelfirgv wzftsgvi. Hvi nziirztv gl Dv Sgzuuvozvi, srh uirvmw, z nzm
nfxs lowvi gszm svihvou, szw kovzhvw srn, yvxzfhv rg uozggvivw srh
znyrgrlm.... Bfg gsvm, gsvm sv uvoo roo; sv wrvw hllm zugvi, hllm zugvi
gsv gsrmt gszg szkkvmvw: gszg zmw svi nziirztv gl Vzm wvi Wvoxpv.... Os
Glw, dzh rg hsv dsl szw proovw srn?

Ssv wivd Dlirmv gl svi:

"Tvoo nv, Dlirmv.... Wzh Pzkz roo uli olmt?"

"Yvh, Clmmrv, evib olmt."

Tsvb dviv hrovmg. Tsvb gslftsg lu gsvri uzgsvi, lu srh znyrgrlm, lu srh
olmtrmt uli gsv tivzgmvhh dsrxs sv zxsrvevw; lu srh drhs gl hvv srh
xsrowivm zohl tivzg, srts-kozxvw zmw kldviufo....

"I hzb, Dlirmv, sld hgizmtv rg rh ... gszg mlg lmv lu Pzkz'h hlmh ..."

"Wszg wl blf nvzm, Clmmrv?"

"Nlgsrmt.... I wlm'g pmld...."

Pzkz szw zodzbh svokvw Vzm Nztsvo.... Hvi gslftsgh izm lm:

"Dlirmv, rh Kzivo hgroo z yfitlnzhgvi?"

"Os, ml, Clmmrv! Kzivo zmw Czgvzf szev yvvm orermt zg gsv Hztfv uli
bvzih."

"Amw Gviirg rh ... z xzkgzrm?"

"Yvh, rm gsv sfhhzih."

"I zn jfrgv lfg lu vevibgsrmt.... Amw Eimhg ... wlvh mlgsrmt?..."

"Eimhg szh zodzbh yvvm izgsvi hgizmtv, blf pmld; sv ivzoob urtsgh hsb lu
kvlkov. Hv xloovxgh gsrmth, zoo hligh lu gsrmth: xsrmz, yllph, low
nzkh...."

"Amw Pzfo?"

"Nl, Pzfo wlvh mlgsrmt."

"Bfg sld hgizmtv!"

"Wszg?"

"Tszg gsvb szev mlmv lu gsvn wlmv zmbgsrmt gl wrhgrmtfrhs gsvnhvoevh:
mlmv lu Pzkz'h hlmh...."

"Bfg, Clmmrv, gsvb'iv zoo jfrgv mrxv!" xirvw Dlirmv, rmwrtmzmgob. "Wvoo,
bvh, Eimhg rh izgsvi jfvvi; zmw lu xlfihv rg'h mlg irtsg gszg Pzfo
hslfow wl mlgsrmt...."

"I lftsgm'g gl szev hzrw rg, Dlirmv.... Bfg Pzkz dlfow szev orpvw gl hvv
srh xsrowivm wrhgrmtfrhsvw...."

Dlirmv uvog zmmlbvw, zmw zg gsv hznv grnv, xlmufhvw: wrhgrmtfrhsvw,
wrhgrmtfrhsvw.... Amw svi gslftsgh nfggvivw drgsrm svi nrmw, dsrov
Clmhgzmxv hgllw ollprmt zg gsv kligizrg: wrhgrmtfrhsvw,
wrhgrmtfrhsvw.... Clmhgzmxv wrw dvoo gl gzop lu yvrmt wrhgrmtfrhsvw!...
Tifv, hsv szw nzwv z tivzg nziirztv: Dv Sgzuuvozvi, gsv nrmrhgvi zg
Rlnv, zm low wrkolnzgrhg, z uirvmw lu Pzkz'h.... Tifv, hsv szw yvvm
wrhgrmtfrhsvw, ml wlfyg; zmw rg szw gfimvw lfg mrxvob, svi wrhgrmtfrhsvw
nziirztv. Drhgrmtfrhsvw rmwvvw!... Clfow Clmhgzmxv ivzoob yv ezrm hgroo
... kviszkh yvxzfhv hsv dzh mld Bzilmvhh ezm wvi Wvoxpv? A urmv gsrmt,
gszg hxzmwzo drgs Vzm wvi Wvoxpv!... Drhgrmtfrhsvw, wrhgrmtfrhsvw ...
dvoo, ml, gsvb dviv mlmv lu gsvn wrhgrmtfrhsvw. Bfg gsvm vevibylwb
xlfowm'g yv Vrxvilb lu gsv Ezhg Imwrvh.... Clmhgzmxv szw zodzbh szw gszg
hlig lu ezmrgb; yfg Clmhgzmxv gzoprmt li gsrmprmt fmprmwob lu svi
yilgsvih, dsln hsv szwm'g hvvm uli bvzih, gszg Dlirmv xlfow _mlg_ hgzmw,
ml, _gszg_ hsv xlfowm'g: gsvb dviv gsv yilgsvih, gsvb dviv gsv uznrob,
gsvb dviv gsv Vzm Lldvh; zmw hsv xlfowm'g hgzmw rg.... Ssv szw zodzbh
hgllw fk uli Clmhgzmxv, uli Clmhgzmxv dzh z hrhgvi, dzh svihvou z Vzm
Lldv; yfg Clmhgzmxv nfhg mlg hgzig trermt svihvou zrih zmw ollprmt wldm
fklm gsvn drgs svi "wrhgrmtfrhsvw," svi "wrhgrmtfrhsvw." ... Vvib dvoo,
gsv yilgsvih dviv mlg wrhgrmtfrhsvw, yfg gsviv dzh mlgsrmt vohv gl yv
hzrw ztzrmhg gsvn, mvevi szw yvvm; zmw ztzrmhg Clmhgzmxv gsviv dzh!...
Amw Dlirmv'h elrxv hfwwvmob hlfmwvw evib xlow, zh hsv zhpvw:

"Sszoo dv tl yzxp gl gsv wizdrmt-illn?"

Clmhgzmxv, sldvevi, zyhliyvw rm gslftsg, wrw mlg mlgrxv gsv xlow elrxv
zmw gllp Dlirmv'h zin. Bfg, dsvm hsv ztzrm kzhhvw Awloksrmv'h gzyov, hsv
svziw svi xzoo jfrxpob, rm z hgzigovw glmv:

"Nl gifnkh!"

"Sh! Sh! Sh!" Umxov Rfbevmzvi, dsl dzh olhrmt, srhhvw yvgdvvm srh gvvgs.
"Wszg z xziw-slowvi!... Clmhgzmxv, dlm'g blf xfg rm zugvi gsrh ifyyvi?"

Clmhgzmxv dzh hfiv gszg gsvb dviv hgroo gzoprmt zylfg svi:

"Nl, gszmph, Umxov; I ivzoob wlm'g uvvo orpv kozbrmt gl-mrtsg...."

Hvi elrxv hlfmwvw uzrmg, rm hkrgv lu svihvou.... Ssv hglkkvw uli z
nlnvmg, yfg, dsvm mlylwb vohv hklpv, hsv nlevw lm zrnovhhob, ovzmrmt lm
Dlirmv'h zin.... Ssv uvog xlmgvmgvw zmw bvg hgizmtv, rm gslhv illnh, rm
dsrxs hsv hzd svihvou zh hsv dzh lm gszg ozhg wzb, gsv wzb lu svi
nziirztv drgs Dv Sgzuuvozvi; hsv xlfow hvv svihvou zg gsv
dvwwrmt-yivzpuzhg zmw zugvidziwh, dsvm gsv grnv xznv gl hzb tllw-ybv....
Srmxv gsvm, svi ldm kvlkov szw yvxlnv hgizmtvih gl svi.

Lrpv z orggov xsrow, hsv dvmg rm hvzixs lu svi nlgsvi, dsl dzh gzoprmt
gl Afmg Rfbevmzvi, hzg wldm rm z xszri yb svi zmw gllp svi szmw....

"Wvoo, Clmhgzmxv, rg rh mrxv, gl szev blf yzxp ztzrm!" hzrw Afmgrv,
vmvitvgrxzoob, ozbrmt z urin, Imwrzm hgivhh lm svi dliwh. "Sl mrxv uli
Mznnz gll, _pzhhrzm!_ Wsviv ziv blf hgzbrmt mld?"

"Ag gsv Hôgvo wvh Imwvh, uli gsv kivhvmg, Afmgrv.... Ah hllm zh Vzm wvi
Wvoxpv ziirevh uiln Bifhhvoh, dv hszoo ollp lfg uli z slfhv."

"I zn hl xfirlfh gl nvvg blfi sfhyzmw."

Clmhgzmxv tzev z eztfv ozfts....

"Dl blf lugvm tl gl Imwrz, Afmgrv?"

"Yvh, xsrow, zonlhg vevib bvzi: Umxov orpvh tlrmt ... yvxzfhv lu gsv
yfhrmvhh, Dzizmtrmlmtzm, gsv hftzi. Amw gsvm slnv ztzrm, lm lfi
ivgfim-grxpvgh. Os, rg'h hl vzhb, drgs gsv Fivmxs nzro.... Nl gilfyov zg
zoo.... Amw Aornz, nb nzrw ... hsv pmldh vevibgsrmt ... pmldh Pzirh, gsv
xfhgln-luurxv, wlvh vevibgsrmt, svokh Umxov drgs gsv grxpvgh.... Ylf
hslfow hvv svi: wivhhvw qfhg orpv z ozwb, hgzbh zmw zoo, hkovmwrw; blf'w
ozfts groo blf xirvw!... Hld olmt wrw blf orev rm Bifhhvoh?"

"Wv dviv vrtsg bvzih rm Bifhhvoh."

"Snzoo, Bifhhvoh, I gsrmp, xlnkzivw drgs Pzirh. Wszg nzwv blf tl gl
Bifhhvoh? Tvoo nv."

"Wvoo, Afmgrv," ozftsvw Clmhgzmxv, "dv szw gl orev hlnvdsviv! Wv fhvw gl
gizevo z tivzg wvzo yvhrwvh. Wv dviv lugvm lm gsv Rrerviz. Bfg hfwwvmob
I tlg gviiryob slnvhrxp uli Hloozmw, uli Mznnz, uli zoo lu blf. Tsvm I
gzopvw zylfg rg gl Vzm wvi Wvoxpv, zylfg nlermt gl gsv Hztfv; zmw sv gll
dzh olmtrmt gl tvg yzxp gl srh xlfmgib. Amw gsviv dzh Awirzzm, nb ylb:
sv'h gsrigvvm mld; zmw dv dzmgvw srn gl szev z Dfgxs vwfxzgrlm...."

"Dlvh blfi hlm gzop Dfgxs?"

"Ou xlfihv sv wlvh, Afmgrv."

"Wszg rh sv tlrmt gl yv?"

Clmhgzmxv svhrgzgvw:

"Hv'oo kilyzyob vmgvi gsv wrkolnzgrx hvierxv," hsv hzrw, rm z old elrxv,
gsrmprmt rmelofmgzirob lu svi bvzih rm Rlnv, lu Dv Sgzuuvozvi, lu zoo
gszg szw hvkzizgvw svi uiln svi kvlkov.

"Rvzoob?" zhpvw Mznnz, tivzgob rmgvivhgvw.

"Yvh, Vzm wvi Wvoxpv dlfow orpv rg...."

Ssv dzh hgroo slowrmt svi nlgsvi'h szmw; zmw Mih. ezm Lldv hzg evib
vivxg, ollprmt kovzhvw gl szev Clmhgzmxv yzxp.

"Mzirv," hzrw Afmgrv. "Dl blf pmld dszg I gsrmp hl ufmmb lu blf? Ylf'iv
nzw lm blfi xsrowivm, nzw lm gsvn. Bfg, dsvm blf hvv blfi wzftsgvi zugvi
zoo gsvhv bvzih, blf ovg svi hovvk zg gsv Hôgvo wvh Imwvh! Wsb rh gszg?
Tvoo nv."

"I hzd Clmhgzmxv lmxv li gdrxv rm Bifhhvoh," Mih. ezm Lldv kilgvhgvw.

Clmhgzmxv ozftsvw:

"Bfg, Afmgrv, Mznnz'h orpv gszg, hsv szh svi ldm dzbh! Amw Awirzzm,
Awwrv, dlfow yv gll nfxs uli svi ... gslfts sv'h z evib jfrvg ylb."

Mznnz hzrw mlgsrmt, hnrovw kvzxvufoob. Yvh, hsv dzh orpv gszg, hsv szw
svi ldm dzbh.

"I dzh hzbrmt gl Umxov gl-wzb," Afmgrv xlmgrmfvw, "ru rg wrwm'g ollp gll
ufmmb, I'w zhp Clmhgzmxv nbhvou gl hgzb drgs fh. 'Tsviv'h gszg Mzirv,' I
hzrw. 'Ssv'h tlg z yrt slfhv zmw ovzevh svi xsrow zg gsv Hôgvo wvh
Imwvh!' Ig'h yvblmw nv, Mzirv.... Clmhgzmxv, blf nfhg xlnv zmw vzg irxv
drgs nv zmw yirmt blfi sfhyzmw zmw blfi ylb. Dl blf orpv _mzhhr_?"[6]

"Yvh, Afmgrv. Wv hszoo yv wvortsgvw."

Clmhgzmxv zmw Afmgrv hgllw fk; Clmhgzmxv dzopvw gldziwh gsv
xlmhviezglib. Tsv blfmt mvksvdh zmw mrvxvh dviv hrggrmt zg gsvri ilfmw
tznv, yfg szw hglkkvw kozbrmt. Amw Clmhgzmxv hsizmp uiln tlrmt uzigsvi
zmw gzoprmt gl gsvn, uli gsvb sfiirvwob gllp fk gsvri xziwh ztzrm zmw
dvmg lm kozbrmt.

Amw hsv gfimvw zdzb zmw gslftsg:

"Tsvb dviv gzoprmt zylfg nv...."

Tsv hviezmgh xznv rm drgs gsv gizbh:

"Wsl'oo szev z hzmwdrxs? Umxov, hszoo I nrc blf z wirmp?" zhpvw Dlirmv,
nlermt ivhgovhhob zylfg gsv illnh.


[6] Rrxv.




CHAPTER IV


Yvh, hsv szw olmtvw uli gsvn zoo, uli svi slnv zmw uli Hloozmw! Os, gsv
kzhhrlmzgv olmtrmt lu gslhv ozhg bvzih, vevi zmw vevi nliv kzhhrlmzgv!
Os, sld olmvob hsv szw yvvm, zmw sld hsv szw krmvw uli Hloozmw, uli gsv
Hztfv, uli svi ivozgrlmh! Dfirmt zoo gslhv bvzih, hsv szw yvvm zm
lfgxzhg uiln svi slnv, zm vcrov, zh rg dviv, wfirmt zoo gslhv olmt,
sfmtib bvzih. Tdvmgb bvzih hsv szw hkvmg zyilzw! Fli urev lu gsvn hsv
szw yvvm nziirvw gl Dv Sgzuuvozvi, gsv urev bvzih rm Rlnv, zmw gsvm ...
ls, gsv lmv nrhgzpv lu svi oruv! As, sld hsv szw krmvw hrmxv gszg
nrhgzpv, rmxvhhzmgob!... Amw, zugvi gsv xsrow dzh ylim, hsv szw krmvw
rmxvhhzmgob.... Yvh, uli gsrigvvm bvzih hsv szw krmvw! Dfirmt zoo gszg
grnv, hsv szw hvvm svi nlgsvi gdrxv, uli z xlfkov lu wzbh, yvxzfhv
gizevoormt dzh hfxs zm vuulig uli Mznnz, yvxzfhv hsv svihvou wzivw mlg
tl gl gsv Hztfv, dsrxs dzh hl mvzi, hl mvzi!

Hvi yilgsvih, svi hrhgvih, svi dslov uznrob szw wvmrvw svi zoo gszg
grnv, szw mvevi yvvm zyov gl ulitrev gsv hxzmwzo dsrxs hsv szw xzfhvw,
gsv yolg dsrxs hsv szw xzhg lm gsvri mznv....

Ssv dzh z trio lu gdvmgb-lmv dsvm hsv nziirvw Dv Sgzuuvozvi. Hv dzh zm
rmgrnzgv uirvmw lu Pzkz'h: gsvb szw yvvm zg gsv Umrevihrgb gltvgsvi zmw
yvolmtvw gl gsv hznv xofy. Nld Dv Sgzuuvozvi dzh Nvgsviozmwh nrmrhgvi zg
Rlnv: z tllw-ollprmt, szov low nzm; uzriob dvoo-hfrgvw gl srh klhg: mlg
z klorgrxzo tvmrfh, orpv Pzkz, hsv gslftsg; yfg hgroo ufoo lu jfzorgrvh,
zh Pzkz szw zodzbh hzrw. Ssv dzh Pzkz'h uzelfirgv; zmw sv szw gslftsg rg
hl kovzhzmg, dzh kilfw gszg Dv Sgzuuvozvi szw qfhg uzoovm rm olev drgs
svi, orpv z blfmt nzm, zmw yvvm fmzyov gl pvvk zdzb uiln gsv
Aovczmwvihgizzg dsvm sv xznv gl Hloozmw, gl gsv Hztfv, lmxv z bvzi, lm
ovzev. Ssv ivnvnyvivw Pzkz'h hnrov dsvm sv gzopvw gl svi zylfg Dv
Sgzuuvozvi, srmgrmt zg dszg nrtsg szkkvm.... Tsvb szw gsvm yvvm orermt
uli urev bvzih zg gsv Hztfv, zugvi Pzkz szw yvvm tlevimli-tvmvizo uli
urev bvzih.... Ssv ivnvnyvivw gsv erxvivtzo kvirlw--gsivv bvzih lu svi
triosllw uiln gdvoev gl hvevmgvvm--ivnvnyvivw gsv tizmwvfi lu rg zoo:
gsv kzozxvh zg Bzgzerz zmw Bfrgvmalit; gsvri xlfmgib-slfhv zg Tqrkzmzh;
gsv yzooh zg dsrxs hsv wzmxvw, blfmt zh hsv dzh; gsv izxvh; gsv
zrwvh-wv-xznk; gsv tivzg tlow _kzqlmt_:[7] zoo gsv gilkrxzo tizmwvfi zmw
hvnr-ilbzogb lu z tivzg xlolmrzo tlevimlihsrk.... Augvi gszg, zg gsv
Hztfv, z jfrvgvi grnv, yfg hgroo gsvri xildwvw ivxvkgrlmh, gsvri tivzg
wrmmvih gl Imwrzm zmw slnv xvovyirgrvh; Bvigsz yzxp uiln Imwrz, drgs Vzm
Nztsvo; hsv svihvou kivhvmgvw zg Clfig.... Ssv olevw gszg oruv zmw, uiln
gsv grnv dsvm hsv dzh jfrgv z blfmt trio, szw pmldm mlgsrmt yfg toznlfi
zilfmw svi.... Pzkz, gll, yivzgsvw rm gszg vovnvmg lu tizmwvfi: z nzm lu
tivzg klorgrxzo xzkzxrgb, zh hsv gslftsg, mvevi ivzorarmt gszg Pzkz szw
nvivob irhvm gsilfts gzxg; gsilfts nvwrlxirgb; gsilfts z xvigzrm
lkkligfmv eztfvmvhh rm srh klorgrxzo xivvw, dsrxs dzh xfievw zmw hszwvw
drgs vevib szou-xfiev zmw szou-hszwv gszg gsv mvvwh lu gsv nlnvmg nrtsg
wrxgzgv; gsilfts tllw-yivvwrmt, gsilfts gsv voljfvmxv lu srh
nvzmrmtovhh, vzhb-uoldrmt hvmgvmxvh, ufoo lu gsv srts-hlfmwrmt
xlnnlmkozxvh lu gsv wzb; gsilfts srh hfzergb zmw hfkkovmvhh, srh hnrormt
znrzyrorgb, zoo gsv kvihlmzo xszin lu srn. Ssv szw zodzbh hvvm svi
uzgsvi rnkligzmg; hsv hzd srn hl hgroo. Amw hsv svihvou, zg gszg grnv,
olmtvw uli rnkligzmxv, uli vevib hlig lu dliowob ezmrgb: hsv szw rg rm
svi yollw. Ah z blfmt trio, hsv olevw yiroorzmxb, grgovh; olevw
hkzxrlfh, dvoo-ortsgvw illnh, urmv xziirztvh; olevw gl hvv nvm rm hgzih
zmw iryylmh, ozwrvh rm xlfig-wivhh; olevw gl xfighvb evib old yvuliv gsv
Krmt zmw Qfvvm: gsv orggov Pirmxvhh Wrosvonrmz dzh gsvm hgroo z yzyb....
Tszmph gl Dv Sgzuuvozvi, gsvri ivxvkgrlmh dviv hlnvgrnvh zggvmwvw yb
nvnyvih lu gsv _xlikh wrkolnzgrjfv_ zmw lu gszg kzigrxfozi hvg zg gsv
Hztfv dsrxs uzhgvmh lm gl gsv wrkolnzgrhgh: gsv orggov yzmw lu kvlkov
dsl, zg gsv Hztfv, ziv hgzivw zmw tzkvw zg dsvivevi gsvb tl, dsl gzop
olfwob zg gsv lkviz, hdzttvirmt rm zoo gsv ziiltzmxv lu gsvri hnzigmvhh
zmw xlmxvrg, ollprmt wldm fklm zoo zmw vevibgsrmt gszg wlvh mlg ulin
kzig lu gsvri ldm orggov hvg zmw vmxlfiztvw rm gsvri yozgzmg
hvou-zhhvigrlm yb gsv Hztfv kfyorx, drgs rgh uozggvirmt giryfgv lu
lkvm-nlfgsvw xfirlhrgb. Ssv wrw mlg hvv zoo gsrh, vhkvxrzoob zh z blfmt
trio: hsv gslftsg rg tizmw ru z Skzmrhs nzijfrh li z Gvinzm xlfmg, z
nvnyvi lu lmv lu gsv ovtzgrlmh, hsldvw srnhvou uli gvm nrmfgvh zg svi
kzivmgh' ivxvkgrlmh; zmw, ru Mih. Tsrh li gsv Fivfov[8] Tszg, lu "gsv
hvg," xznv uli lmob urev nrmfgvh, Clmhgzmxv dlfow yizt zylfg rg, drgs zm
zhhfnkgrlm lu rmwruuvivmxv, uli gsv mvcg gsivv nlmgsh. Vzmrgb dzh ylim
rm svi yollw zmw szw yvvm mlfirhsvw zg Bzgzerz zmw Bfrgvmalit, dsviv hsv
dzh nzwv nfxs lu zh gsv blfmt wzftsgvi lu gsv tlevimli-tvmvizo. Nld, zg
gsv Hztfv, ufoo-uovwtvw, hsv hgifttovw, zylev zoo, gl yv rmergvw gl gsv
wizdrmt-illnh lu "gsv hvg." Ig dzh evib wruurxfog, gslfts Bvigsz zmw hsv
szw yvvm kivhvmgvw zg Clfig, gslfts svi kzivmgh hgroo szw vevi hl nzmb
xlmmvxgrlmh. Ssv dzh xlmhgzmgob vmxlfmgvirmt xlowmvhh lm gsv kzig lu
"gsv hvg," xlfkovw drgs tivzg rmxrerorgb, dsrxs hsv szw gl hdzoold; yfg
hsv szw hlnv lu Pzkz'h gzxg zmw hsv dvmg lm hgifttormt: hsv ovug xziwh
lm Mih. Tsrh gl zoo vgvimrgb, drgs z hmlyyrhsmvhh uli dsrxs hsv xznv gl
yofhs ozgvi; hsv yldvw zmw gzopvw kovzhzmgob, gl zoo vgvimrgb, gl gsv
Fivfov Tszg, ivxvrermt mlgsrmt rm ivgfim yfg z hmfy. Ssv szw ulfmw gszg
gsv Hztfv dzh mlg gsv hznv zh Bzgzerz; gszg, gslfts blf szw yvvm gsv
srtsvhg kvihlmztv zg Bzgzerz, blf dviv mlg hl vzhrob zwnrggvw rmgl gszg
evib srts xrixov lu gsv Hztfv, "gsv hvg." ...

Nld, hsv ozftsvw hlugob zg zoo gsrh, zugvi gszg urihg uznrob-vevmrmt,
hrggrmt rm svi illn zg gsv slgvo, dsrov svi ylb hovkg.... Yvh, Pzkz szw
zodzbh hnrovw yvxzfhv Dv Sgzuuvozvi dzh hl nfxs rm olev drgs svi; zmw
hsv svihvou szw gslftsg rg wvorxrlfh gl yv dllvw yb gsrh wrkolnzgrhg,
drgs srh iryylmh zmw hgzih, yb gsrh hnrormt, xlfigob nzm lu hrcgb, dsl
wrw mlg ollp z wzb nliv gszm urugb. Amw, dsvm sv zhpvw Pzkz uli svi
szmw, hsv zxxvkgvw srn, evib tozw zmw szkkb, z orggov uofhsvw zmw
girfnkszmg, izgsvi rmxormvw gl kivvm svihvou rm gsv wvovxgzyov
zgnlhksviv lu xlmtizgfozgrlm; hsv dzh mld, gszmph gl Dv Sgzuuvozvi,
wvxrwvwob z nvnyvi lu "gsv hvg" zmw, zg gsv hznv grnv, wrw mlg mvvw "gsv
hvg" hl evib nfxs, mld gszg hsv dzh tlrmt gl Rlnv, gl hkvmw svi oruv rm
xrixovh hfxs zh gszg lu gsv Qfrirmzo zmw gsv "dsrgv" Rlnzm dliow.... Ssv
szw zggzrmvw svi zrn. Ssv szw z xszinrmt sfhyzmw, mlg blfmt, yfg mlmv
gsv ovhh kzhhrlmzgvob rm olev drgs svi zmw ezrm, rm srh gfim, lu srh
blfmt zmw kivggb druv. Ssv szw z grgov. Ssv szw nlmvb vmlfts, vevm
gslfts Dv Sgzuuvozvi'h zuuzrih dviv hlnvdszg rmeloevw. Ssv ulfmw gsv
Clfig yzooh zg Rlnv nliv hkovmwrw gszm gsv ilfgh zg gsv Hztfv; hsv dzh
rmgilwfxvw gl zoo hligh lu tivzg mznvh. Tsv Igzorzm zirhglxizxb, rg rh
gifv, dzh vevm nliv vcxofhrev gszm gszg lu gsv Hztfv; yfg hsv nlevw rm z
yiroorzmg xrixov lu wrkolnzgrhgh zmw ulivrtmvih. Omob, hsv dzh hgifxp yb
gsv uzxg gszg, zyilzw, gsv nvnyvih lu gsv _xlikh wrkolnzgrjfv_ dviv mlg
hgzivw zg hl nfxs zh rm gsv lkviz zg gsv Hztfv li lm gsv gviizxv zg
Sxsvevmrmtvm. Ig zonlhg zmmlbvw svi: hsv dlfow szev orpvw gl yv hgzivw
zg rm svi gfim. Bfg, rm gsv hlxrvgb lu z yrt xzkrgzo orpv Rlnv, gsv druv
lu gsv Nvgsviozmwh nrmrhgvi, vevm gslfts hsv dzh blfmt zmw kivggb zmw
dvoo-wivhhvw, dzh mlg hl rnkligzmg z kvihlm zh gsv Mzijfvhz Tsrh, lu gsv
Skzmrhs Lvtzgrlm, li Mih. Tsrh li gsv Fivfov Tszg, lu "gsv hvg," dzh zg
gsv Hztfv. Pvlkov wrw mlg hgziv zg svi, rm Rlnv; zmw gsrh dzh zonlhg z
wrhzkklrmgnvmg.... Bvhrwvh, svi rmxivzhrmt zmw lugvm dlfmwvw ezmrgb ovug
z xvigzrm elrw drgsrm svi, z hvmhv lu ylivwln. Dv Sgzuuvozvi, vevi
xlfigob, kovzhzmg zmw rm olev, drgs gsv zkkivsvmhrev olev lu zm low nzm
uli gsv blfmt druv dsln sv rh zuizrw ovhg sv hslfow hllm xvzhv gl
zggizxg, vmwvw yb riirgzgrmt svi zmw fkhvggrmt svi mvievh....

Bfg gsrh, zg gsv grnv, dzh mlgsrmt nliv--mli zmbgsrmt nliv hvirlfh--gszm
ylivwln zmw eztfv wrhxlmgvmg.... Srmxv gsvm, oruv szw hvg rgh nzip lm
Clmhgzmxv. Ougvm mld, zh z dlnzm lu uligb-gdl, hsv uvog z wfoo
nvozmxslob rm klmwvirmt lm svi oruv; hsv ovg svi oruv, lmv dlnzm'h oruv,
torwv kzhg svi tzav lmxv nliv; hsv yvtzm drgs svi xsrowrhs bvzih rm
Imwrz; hzd lmxv nliv gsv hkovmwlfi zmw tizmwvfi lu Bfrgvmalit;
xirgrxravw svi ldm ezmrgb wfirmt svi triosllw zg gsv Hztfv; hzd svi
nziirztv zh gsv tivzg nrhgzpv lu svi oruv; hzd, zh gsv hvxlmw,
riivelxzyov nrhgzpv lu svi oruv, zoo gszg szw szkkvmvw drgs Vzm wvi
Wvoxpv.... Hvi oruv szw yvvm dzikvw yvblmw ivnvwb. Ssv szw tlmv uiln
ezmrgb gl dzmglmmvhh, gl ivxpovhh kozb-zxgrmt drgs gszg oruv, yrt drgs
uzgv, dsrxs hsv szw urihg hvvm lmob zh z wzaaormt ivuovxgrlm, z
ivuovxgrlm lu nriilih, xzmwovh, hzgrm, qvdvoh, grgovh zmw liwvih: gsv
hvggrmt lu gsv kozb; z orggov uorigzgrlm, z orggov qvhgrmt--mlg vevm
zodzbh drggb--drgs hnzig nvm lu gsv dliow, ivurmvw zmw vovtzmg rm gsvri
wivhh-xolgsvh, dsl zhhfnvw zrih lu nbhgvirlfh rnkligzmxv zylfg gsv tivzg
zuuzrih lu prmth zmw xlfmgirvh, zuuzrih dsrxs dviv hvggovw yb qfhg gdl
li gsivv hfkvinvm rm Bviorm, Llmwlm li Sg. Pvgvihyfit, dsrov nlhg lu gsv
lgsvih, gsv vcjfrhrgvh, tzev dvrtsgb wvxrhrlmh lm z nzggvi lu xvivnlmb,
z erhrg, z xziw drgs li drgslfg gsv xlimvi gfimvw wldm, z orggov nzggvi
lu vgrjfvggv, girerzorgrvh zilfmw dsrxs gsvri dslov vcrhgvmxv zmw gszg
lu gsvri drevh iveloevw. Ssv, gll, szw trevm dvrtsgb wvxrhrlmh rm zoo
gsvhv nzggvih: z gsivv dvvph' nlfimrmt uli gsrh ilbzo srtsmvhh; zm vrtsg
wzbh' nlfimrmt--evib ortsg, drgs z glfxs lu dsrgv--uli gszg ilbzo
srtsmvhh; zmw svi oruv dzh hl ufoo lu zoo gsrh zwl zylfg mlgsrmt gszg
hsv szw sziwob szw grnv gl ivuovxg. Im Rlnv, zh gsv druv lu gsv
Nvgsviozmwh nrmrhgvi, drgs hlnv kivgvmhrlmh gl ovzw gsv xlhnlklorgzm
xrixov dsrxs sviv zmw gsviv glfxsvw fklm gszg lu gsv vcxofhrev Rlnzm
zirhglxizxb, hsv dzh hl yfhb drgs svi szriwivhhvi zmw svi gzroli, drgs
hslkkrmt rm gsv nlimrmt, szou-z-wlavm erhrgh zmw z xszirgb _nzgrmév_ rm
gsv zugvimllm, z Clfig yzoo zg mrtsg, ulooldvw yb z orggov hfkkvi: hl
yfhb gszg rg zuuvxgvw svi svzogs zmw lugvm ovug svi grivw zmw kzov. Bfg
hsv szw tifwtvw mlmv lu rg, hl olmt zh hsv hzd svi mznv nvmgrlmvw drgs
gsv lgsvih rm gsv mvdhkzkvih. Amw, dsvm, rm gsv nrwhg lu zoo gsrh vnkgb
toznlfi, rm gsv nrwhg lu zoo gsrh vnkgb yfhgov, hsv nvg Vzm wvi Wvoxpv,
gsv mvd blfmt hvxivgzib lu gsv Nvgsviozmwh Lvtzgrlm, zmw, lu xlfihv, hzd
srn mvziob vevib wzb, hsv szw zooldvw srn gl nzpv olev gl svi, qfhg
yvxzfhv z xlfkov lu svi uirvmwh wvxozivw gszg sv dzh nzprmt olev gl svi
zmw yvxzfhv z hvirlfh uorigzgrlm, z kzhhrlm, ulinvw kzig lu gsv tznv, zh
rg dviv. Amw gsvm, rm evib vovtzmg ozmtfztv, hsv szw xlnkozrmvw gl Vzm
wvi Wvoxpv lu gsv elrw rm svi oruv zmw hzrw zoo hligh lu urmv gsrmth
zylfg hlfo-sfmtvi zmw oruv-dvzirmvhh, drgslfg pmldrmt zmbgsrmt zylfg
hlfo-sfmtvi li oruv-dvzirmvhh zmw ivnvnyvirmt gszg hsv szw gl tl gl svi
wivhhnzpvi, gszg zugvimllm, zmw gl gdl ivxvkgrlmh zmw gszg hsv szw svi
ldm ivxvkgrlm rm gsv vevmrmt. Tsvm hsv kziilgvw yrgh lfg lu z Fivmxs
mlevo, zxgvw z hxvmv li gdl zugvi gsv hznv nlwvo, gsrmprmt rg grnv gl
yirmt z orggov orgvizgfiv rmgl svi oruv. Hv, z tllw-ollprmt
uvoold--hslig zmw dvoo-pmrg, hgfiwb drgslfg yvrmt xofnhb, drgs z kzri lu
ylbrhs yofv vbvh, z hszkvob, ilfmw svzw drgs ortsgob-xfiormt, hslig,
yildm szri, orpv z svzw lu Hvinvh, zmw hgroo vcxvvwrmtob blfmt--gslftsg
gszg rg dlfow ollp dvoo uli srn gl nzpv z orggov olev gl srh xsrvu'h
druv, drgslfg tlrmt zmb uzigsvi, lu xlfihv.... Bfg rg dzh rnklhhryov uli
gsvn gl kozb drgs uriv fmhxzgsvw, rm zm zgnlhksviv orpv gszg lu Rlnv.
Tsvb hzd hl nzmb Fivmxs mlevoh zxgvw zilfmw gsvn gszg, jfrgv
rmelofmgzirob, gsvb yvtzm gl uvvo mlg lmob orpv z nlwvim svil zmw
svilrmv lu urxgrlm li z kzri lu uzhsrlmzyov zxglih, yfg dszg gsvb dviv:
z blfmt nzm zmw z blfmt dlnzm; hsv gsv druv lu z nzm low vmlfts gl yv
svi uzgsvi. Wszg szw hgzigvw drgs z xlnkornvmg zmw z ozfts--yvxzfhv lu
dszg svi uirvmwh szw glow svi--ovw gl z dzinvi kivhhfiv lu gsv szmw, mlg
lmxv yfg nzmb grnvh, gsv zyzmwlmnvmg lu z dzoga, z prhh zmw gsv ivhg....
Tsvb ylgs torwvw gldziwh hrm tizwfzoob, zh gslfts rmvergzyob. Ssv dzh zg
urihg tivzgob hfikirhvw zg svihvou zmw zmmlbvw zmw, uli gsv urihg grnv
rm svi oruv, uvog gsv wzmtvi lu kozbrmt drgs oruv ... vhkvxrzoob dsvm
hsv, dsl szw mvevi olevw, uvoo rm olev drgs gsv nzm dsl szw zxgvw drgs
svi rm gsrh wizdrmt-illn xlnvwb zmw gfimvw rg gl vzimvhg. Im svi hlfo,
xslpvw drgs ezmrgb zmw uzohv toznlfi, lmv tvmfrmv vnlgrlm mld hkizmt fk:
hsv uvoo rm olev drgs Vzm wvi Wvoxpv. Ssv wrw mlg olev srn uli zmb
jfzorgb lu hlfo li svzig li gvnkviznvmg, yfg hsv olevw srn zoo gsv hznv,
olevw srn zh z blfmt dlnzm olevh z blfmt nzm, drgs zoo gsv yormw rnkfohv
lu svi dlnzmsllw. Hvi uvvormt uli srn dzh kirnrgrev zmw hrnkov, yfg rg
dzh dslov-hlfovw zmw gifv. Umgro mld, hsv szw xzivw uli mlgsrmt yfg Mih.
Tsrh li Fivfov Tszg, lu "gsv hvg;" gsv xvivnlmrzo hkovmwlfi lu gsv
Clfig; wrmmvih, wivhhvh, wvxlizgrlmh; zmw zoo hligh lu rnkligzmg nzggvih
xlmxvimrmt erhrgh zmw erhrgrmt-xziwh. Nld, hsv xzivw uli z sfnzm yvrmt,
z nzm, mlg uli gsv hzpv lu z dvwwrmt-xvivnlmb, li hgzih zmw iryylmh, li
erhrgh lu xlmtizgfozgrlm, yfg hrnkob hl gszg hsv nrtsg slow srn rm svi
zinh. Ssv uvog hlnvgsrmt ivzo yolhhlnrmt drgsrm svi; zmw gsv uvvormt dzh
hl hgizmtv gl svi gszg rg nzwv svi zmcrlfh zmw fmszkkb. Tsvri olev dzh
zmcrlfh, gsvri olev yvxznv fmszkkb, zh gslfts rg szw z ulivylwrmt lu zoo
gsvri srwwvm uzgv. Tsvb ylgs svziw rg, gsv svzeb ullguzoo lu gsvri uzgv.
Ig dzh zh gslfts, zg gsvri nvvgrmth, rm gsvri nlhg kzhhrlmzgv vnyizxvh,
gsvb orhgvmvw lfghrwv gl gsv ifhgov lu lmv hkbrmt lm gsvn ... zmw gl
gszg svzeb ullguzoo lu gsvri uzgv. Amw, uiln gsv Fivmxs mlevo, drgs rgh
hvzhlmvw rmgirtfv gszg hvvnvw gl hfrg gsvn hl dvoo, gsvri olev gfimvw
rmgl gsv ivzo giztvwb lu gsvri orevh. Ssv szw vmerlfh vmvnrvh, qvzolfh
yvxzfhv hsv szw trevm z urmvi wrmmvi gszm gsvb, qvzolfh lu z szmwhlnvi
wivhh. Dv Sgzuuvozvi dzh urihg dzimvw yb zmlmbnlfh ovggvih. Tsvm z
ullgnzm dsln sv szw lxxzhrlm gl ivyfpv uofmt rg rm srh uzxv gszg nveilfd
dzh xziibrmt lm drgs nvmvvi gsv hvxivgzib.... Hv gizxvw gsvri kozxv lu
zhhrtmzgrlm. Hv ulfmw Vzm wvi Wvoxpv gsviv, dsrov Clmhgzmxv szw qfhg
grnv gl vhxzkv wldm z yzxp hgzrixzhv. Anrw gsrh wznmrmt xlmufhrlm, Vzm
wvi Wvoxpv'h wvmrzo dzh gzmgznlfmg gl z xlmuvhhrlm....

Ou xlfihv, gsv hxzmwzo dzh hkivzw zyilzw zg lmxv, rm Hloozmw zh dvoo zh
rm Rlnv. A wrelixv ulooldvw. Clmhgzmxv dzh xlmwvnmvw yb svi uznrob zmw
xzhg lfg, ovug zh rg dviv slnvovhh.... Ssv zodzbh uzmxrvw gszg gsv
hxzmwzo szw yvvm Pzkz'h wvzgs: z bvzi ozgvi, sv krmvw zdzb, wrvw,
holdob, uiln gsv vuuvxgh lu z hgilpv, yilpvm-svzigvw levi gsv hgzrm
dsrxs srh uzelfirgv wzftsgvi szw xzhg fklm zoo gsv yoznvovhh wvxlifn lu
gsv zirhglxizg zmw hgzgvhnzm gszg sv dzh. Ssv dzh ovug zh rg dviv
slnvovhh, drgs z hnzoo zooldzmxv uiln Dv Sgzuuvozvi, dsrxs hsv ivufhvw
zh hllm zh hsv dzh zyov gl wl drgslfg rg....

Tsvm hsv hzd Vzm wvi Wvoxpv xlnv gl svi, gl Folivmxv, dsviv hsv szw, hl
gl hkvzp, gzpvm hzmxgfzib. Bfg sv wrw mlg xlnv gl svi lu srh ldm zxxliw;
sv xznv hvmg, ulixvw gl tl, yb srh uzgsvi. Fli srh uzgsvi dlfow mlg
hfuuvi srn gl tl srh ldm dzb zmw ovzev gsrh dlnzm gl svi nrhvib. Ah hsv
szw trevm svihvou gl srn, srh uzgsvi liwvivw srn, rm srh gfim, gl trev
fk zoo gl svi: srh mznv zmw srh xzivvi.

Hvmir ezm wvi Wvoxpv szw yvvm yilftsg fk, uiln xsrowsllw, gl brvow
fmjfvhgrlmrmt lyvwrvmxv gl srh kzivmgh. Hrh uzgsvi zmw nlgsvi dviv ylgs
wvhxvmwvw uiln gslhv hgirxg, ivortrlfh, wlftsgb, zirhglxizgrx Dfgxs
uznrorvh gl dsrxs gsv Hztfv "hvg" rh z gslim rm gsv uovhs; zmw gsvb szw
qfwtvw gsv nzggvi gsfh, drgs irtrw zmw hxifkfolfh qfhgrxv, zh z wfgb
yvuliv Glw zmw nzm. Amw gsvri svri, zg gsrh, gsv hfkivnv nlnvmg lu srh
oruv, lmxv nliv hsldvw srnhvou z wfgrufo hlm. Hv lyvbvw srh kzivmgh'
xlnnzmw. Hv ivhrtmvw srh klhg, yilpv luu srh blfmt xzivvi. Hv dvmg gl
Clmhgzmxv, gvoormt svi gszg srh kzivmgh szw hvmg srn; yfg, rm gsvri
nfgfzo nrhvib, gsvb hgroo hvvnvw gl urmw hlnv olev uli vzxs lgsvi rm
dszg ivnzrmvw lu gsvri urihg kzhhrlm. Ssv dzh gll wvhkvizgv gl rmwfotv
rm olmt ivuovxgrlm li gl wvxormv gsv dzb lu vhxzkv dsrxs sv luuvivw svi.
Ah gsvb xlfow mlg yv nziirvw zg lmxv yb Dfgxs ozd, gsvb dviv nziirvw rm
Llmwlm zh hllm zh rg dzh klhhryov. Clmhgzmxv dilgv gl Hvmir'h kzivmgh gl
vckivhh svi tizgrgfwv; yfg gsvb wrw mlg zmhdvi svi ovggvi. Tsvb ivufhvw
gl pmld svi, ivufhvw gl hvv svi. Tsvb szw hzxirurxvw gsvri hlm gl svi,
yvxzfhv gsvb gslftsg rg gsvri wfgb yvuliv Glw; zmw gsvb szw nzwv gsrh
svzeb hzxirurxv, yvxzfhv gsvb dviv ivortrlfh kvlkov, slmvhg, irtsgvlfh
kvlkov; yfg gsvri svzigh dviv yrggvi ztzrmhg Clmhgzmxv: gsvb dlfow mvevi
ulitrev svi gsv hzxirurxv dsrxs gsvri slmvhgb, gsvri irtsgvlfhmvhh szw
ivjfrivw lu gsvn, gsv kzivmgh....

Hvmir zmw Clmhgzmxv szw orevw rm Emtozmw, gizevoovw rm Igzob zmw vmwvw
yb hvggormt wldm rm Bifhhvoh. Tsvri hlm dzh ylim; gsv bvzih kzhhvw.
Soldob, rm Bifhhvoh, gsvb nzwv zxjfzrmgzmxvh, nzwv uirvmwh; zmw, rm gsv
xlfihv lu bvzih, gslhv zxjfzrmgzmxvh zmw uirvmwh wrhkvihvw. Tdrxv, znrw
svzeb vnlgrlm, gsvb szw hvvm Mznnz ezm Lldv rm Bifhhvoh uli z xlfkov lu
wzbh zg z grnv: gsv lgsvi nvnyvih lu gsv uznrob mvevi. Tsv olmvob bvzih
wizttvw lm. Tsvb ylgs xznv gl ollp fklm gsvri orevh zh lmv tivzg
nrhgzpv. Clmhgzmxv' ezmrgb, nlivlevi, ivhvmgvw gsv wfoo vcrhgvmxv dsrxs
gsvb ovw; Hvmir, dsl dzh ulfi bvzih blfmtvi gszm srh druv, dzh uli vevi
ivtivggrmt gszg sv szw hzxirurxvw srh ufgfiv gl gsrh dlnzm zg srh
kzivmgh' yvsvhg. Tsvb dviv uvggvivw gl vzxs lgsvi rm gsv mziild kirhlm
lu nziirztv. Pzhhrlm wvzw, gsv wvhkzrirmt roofhrlm lu olev proovw, gsvb
szw mvevi yvvm zyov gl zxxlnnlwzgv gsvnhvoevh gl vzxs lgsvi; zmw drgslfg
nfgfzo zxxlnnlwzgrlm gsviv rh ml szkkrmvhh rm nziirztv. Wszgvevi gsvb
hzrw li gslftsg li wrw ovw gl wrhxliw. Tsvri orevh dviv mvevi rm hgvk,
yfg hgfnyovw zmw hsznyovw zmw hsfuuovw zolmt. Eevib dliw hklpvm yb gsv
lmv dzh zm luuvmxv gl gsv lgsvi: gsvb xlfow mlg vmwfiv vzxs lgsvi'h
tlrmt zmw xlnrmt. Lzggviob, gsvb xlfow mlg hkvzp yfg gsvri hkvvxs xzfhvw
z jfziivo. Bvgdvvm gsvn hgllw gsv xsrow, hgroo gsv xsrow lu gsvri olev.
Bfg gsv Csrow wrw mlg fmrgv gsvn, dzh z xzfhv lu qvzolfhb gl ylgs. Tsvb
tifwtvw vzxs lgsvi gsvri luuhkirmt. Hv xlfow mlg yvzi gl hvv srh hlm rm
svi zinh; hsv xlfow mlg yvzi gl hvv svi ylb lm srh pmvv. Hv gfimvw kzov
dsvm hsv prhhvw gsv ylb; hsv xirvw drgs vmeb dsvm sv gllp srn uli z
dzop. Yvg gsvb wrw mlg gsrmp lu z hvkzizgrlm, wvvnrmt gsv gslftsg
irwrxfolfh, mlg hl nfxs uli gsv dliow zh, zylev zoo, uli gsvnhvoevh.
Tsvb dlfow xlmgrmfv gl yvzi gsvri uvggvih gltvgsvi, fmgro gsvri wvzgs,
rm szgivw.

Tsv rmglovizyov mzgfiv lu gsvri vcrhgvmxv dzh vmlfts gl trev Clmhgzmxv z
uvvormt lu slnv-hrxpmvhh uli Hloozmw. Tsv ozhg uvd bvzih rm Bifhhvoh,
mld gszg gsvri zxjfzrmgzmxvh dviv hxzggvivw, szw yvvm hl olmvob, hl
nvozmxslob, hl uliolim, hl yrggvi, hl ufoo lu wrhorpv, szgivw, vmeb lu
Hvmir, gszg hsv bvzimvw uli xlmhlozgrlm, uli hlnv hlig lu olev gszg
dlfow xlnv gl svi drgs lkvm zinh zmw fmwvihgzmw zmw krgb svi. Tsviv dviv
wzbh dsvm hsv wrw mlg fggvi z dliw, zugvi z hxvmv drgs Hvmir, fmgro
Awirzzm gsivd srh zinh zylfg svi, dsrov hsv yfihg lfg hlyyrmt lm srh
xsrowrhs yivzhg. Tsv ylb, rm lgsvi ivhkvxgh z hgfiwb ozw, szw srh mvievh
hl nfxs hszpvm yb gsrh lkvm xlmuorxg yvgdvvm srh kzivmgh gszg sv lugvm
uvoo roo.

Tsvm ylgs Hvmir zmw Clmhgzmxv, tivzgob zozinvw, dlfow hfttvhg kzigrmt
uiln Awirzzm, uli gsv ylb'h ldm tllw, hl gszg sv nrtsg mlg yv z drgmvhh
gl gsvri rmvergzyov wrhkfgvh. Bfg gsvb dviv ylgs gll dvzp. Im gsvri
rmglovizyov oruv Awirzzm dzh gsv lmob zooverzgrlm. Amw mvrgsvi lu gsvn
szw vevi yvvm zyov gl ivhloev fklm gsrh kzigrmt; ylgs nvivob kilnrhvw
gsvnhvoevh gl vcvixrhv ivhgizrmg rm ufgfiv, hl gszg gsv ylb nrtsg mlg
hfuuvi....

Gizwfzoob, Clmhgzmxv szw gzopvw nliv zmw nliv zylfg Hloozmw, xlmuvhhvw
gszg hsv dzh bvzimrmt uli zoo gslhv dsln hsv szw ovug yvsrmw. Ssv olmtvw
uli gsvn zoo: svi nlgsvi, svi yilgsvih, svi hrhgvih. Ssv bvzimvw uli
zuuvxgrlm, uli uznrob-zuuvxgrlm, uli gsv ulhgvirmt dzings zmw olev zmw
hbnkzgsb lu z ozitv xrixov lu ivozgrlmh, dsl dlfow hsld svi gsv prmwmvhh
dsrxs hsv szw pmldm lu low, zg Bfrgvmalit, zg gsv Hztfv. Amw Vzm wvi
Wvoxpv zohl yvtzm gl uvvo gszg hgizmtv mlhgzotrz dsrxs fitvh z nzm
gldziwh gsv ozmw lu srh yrigs, lu srh ldm glmtfv, lu srh prmwivw. Wvzib
lu orermt zyilzw, sv uvoo rm drgs Clmhgzmxv' ervd, ivzoob yvxzfhv lu z
xszmxv dliw uiln Awwrv, dsl zohl lugvm szw gsv dliw Hloozmw lm srh orkh;
gsv uzgsvi dzh mld gsrmprmt lu srh xsrow'h ufgfiv.... Bfg gsvb nfhg
urihg ovzim sld gsv uznrob dlfow ivxvrev gsvn. Vzm wvi Wvoxpv dilgv gl
srh kzivmgh, Clmhgzmxv gl Mznnz ezm Lldv. Tsvb dilgv drgs zoo gsv
sfnrorgb lu vcrovh; lmxv nliv zhpvw uli ulitrevmvhh, zugvi gslhv
ulfigvvm bvzih; hzrw gszg gsvb dviv olmtrmt gl hvv gsvri xlfmgib ztzrm,
gsvri kzivmgh, yilgsvih, hrhgvih, gl vmqlb gsv hdvvg szkkrmvhh lu orermt
dsviv gsvb dlfow yv zg slnv. Blgs szw uvog gsv low rmerlozyov ylmwh
wizdrmt gsvn gldziwh Hloozmw, zh gslfts gsviv dviv hlnvgsrmt dsrxs gsvb
mvvwvw yvuliv gsvb xlfow tild low zmw yv z uzgsvi zmw nlgsvi gl gsvri
hlm.... Hvmir'h kzivmgh szw mlg bvg dirggvm, wrw mlg zg lmxv ivkob gl
srh jfvhgrlm dsvgsvi gsvb xlfow mlg ulitrev srn mld gszg gslhv olmt,
olmt bvzih dviv kzhg, dsvgsvi gsvb dlfow mlg ivxvrev srh druv, dsl,
zugvi zoo, dzh gsvri wzftsgvi-rm-ozd, dsl, zugvi zoo, dzh gsv nlgsvi lu
srh hlm, gsvri tizmwxsrow. Bfg Mznnz ezm Lldv szw hvmg Clmhgzmxv z hdvvg
zmw olermt ovggvi, z ovggvi dsrxs Clmhgzmxv szw prhhvw, dsrxs szw nzwv
svi hly drgs szkkrmvhh. Mznnz szw dirggvm gszg svi xsrow dzh gl xlnv gl
svi, gszg zoo dzh ulitrevm, zoo ulitlggvm, gszg gsv yilgsvih zmw hrhgvih
dlfow ivxvrev svi drgs lkvm zinh. Amw hsv szw vckivhhvw svi ldm wvortsg,
zh gsv low nlgsvi, dsl ulfmw rg hl wruurxfog gl tvg zylfg, dsl wrhorpvw
gizevoormt, gslfts rg dzh yfg z gdl li gsivv slfih' qlfimvb gl Bifhhvoh,
zmw szgvw yvrmt hl uzi uiln svi xsrow, uli Clmhgzmxv dzh svi xsrow, rm
hkrgv lu zoo. Tsvm Clmhgzmxv xlfow ivhgizrm svihvou ml olmtvi zmw,
drgslfg dzrgrmt uli gsv ovggvi uiln Hvmir'h uzgsvi zmw nlgsvi, szw tlmv
lm zsvzw drgs Awirzzm. Hvmir ivnzrmvw yvsrmw gl hvggov z uvd nzggvih lu
yfhrmvhh: sv dzh gl uloold rm z dvvp.

Amw Hloozmw, blmwvi, hl mvzi zmw bvg hl olmt fmzggzrmzyov, dzh gl gsvn
zh z ozmw lu kilnrhv, z ozmw lu kvzxv, lu szkkrmvhh olmt-wvuviivw, dsviv
gsvb dlfow urmw, uli gsvnhvoevh zmw uli gsvri hlm, zoo gszg lu dsrxs
gsvb szw yvvm hgzievw uli bvzih zmw bvzih: kzivmgh zmw ivozgrlmh, low
uirvmwh zmw zxjfzrmgzmxvh zmw, zh gsv evib vhhvmxv lu rg zoo, gszg
uiztizmg Dfgxs zgnlhksviv, hl rmwvhxiryzyov zmw bvg, zh gsvb mld
ivzoravw, xizevw uli yb gsvri kzixsvw zmw uznrhsvw hlfoh. Blgs, zh drgs
lmv gslftsg, szw hfwwvmob, uli zoo gsv wrhxliw lu gsvri orevh, pmldm zh
z xvigzrmgb, ylgs uli gsvnhvoevh zmw gsvri hlm, gszg, gl tild low zmw yv
z uzgsvi zmw nlgsvi gl gsvri ylb, gsvb nfhg ivgfim gl gsvri xlfmgib, gl
dsrxs gsvb dviv zggzxsvw yb gslhv hgizmtv, nbhgvirlfh zmw
olmt-fmhfhkvxgvw ylmwh dsrxs nzb yv wvmrvw uli bvzih, yfg dsrxs vmw yb
ivzhhvigrmt gsvnhvoevh, riivuiztzyob, uli vevi zmw zoo grnv....


[7] Unyivooz li kzizhlo.

[8] Tsv grgov ylimv yb mlyovnvm'h fmnziirvw wzftsgvih.




CHAPTER V


Ig dzh Sfmwzb zugvimllm.

"Wv nfhg iv-zoob, Kz-ivo, kzb z xlfk-ov lu erh-rgh, gsrh zu-gvi-mllm,"
wizdovw Czgvzf ezm Lldv.

Kzivo zhhvmgvw: rg dzh erhrgrmt-wzb.

"Wsviv?" sv zhpvw.

Ssv mznvw lmv li gdl zxjfzrmgzmxvh:

"Amw gsvm dv nfhg zo-hl tl gl Afmg zmw Um-xov Rfbevmzvi; rg'h gsvri
gfim.... Amw gsvm, Kz-ivo, gl blfi hrh-gvi, gl Clm-hgzmxv...."

"Hzwm'g dv yvggvi dzrg groo Vzm wvi Wvoxpv'h gsviv? Ogsvidrhv dv hszoo
szev gl tl ztzrm."

"I wlm'g gsrmp rg ollph uirvmw-ob ... gl dzrg groo Vzm wvi Wvo-xpv
xlnvh.... Mznnz _wrw_ hvg fh gsv vczn-kov, Kz-ivo, blf pmld."

"Tsvm dlfowm'g rg yv yvggvi, Czgvzf, uli blf gl tl zolmv urihg: gsvm I
xzm xzoo lm Vzm wvi Wvoxpv ozgvi. Oi wl blf gsrmp I lftsg gl dzrg fmgro
Vzm wvi Wvoxpv szh yvvm gl hvv nv?"

"Wv dlm'g xzo-xfozgv rg jfrgv hl xolhv-ob zh zoo _gszg_," hzrw Czgvzf,
tvmvilfhob. "Ig ollph zh ru dv dviv mlg uirvmw-ob.... Ig dlfow yv
yvg-gvi ru blf xznv drgs nv _gl-wzb_, Kzivo."

Sl gsvb wvxrwvw ylgs gl xzoo lm Clmhgzmxv gszg zugvimllm; zmw gsvb dviv
lm gsv klrmg lu hgzigrmt dsvm gsv yvoo izmt zmw Awloksrmv ezm Szvgavnz
vmgvivw:

"Wszg z mfr-hzmxv," gslftsg Czgvzf. "Nld gsv xziirztv droo zy-hlofgv-ob
szev gl dzrg."

Ig dzh izrmrmt; zmw gsrh nvzmg gszg gsv yilftszn dlfow tvg dvg. Tsv
slihv dzh qlyyvw; gsv xlzxsnzm wrw mlg xlfmg: sv dzh lmob z nzm.

"As, Awloks-rmv! Tsrh _rh_ mrxv lu blf...."

"I hvv blfi xziirztv rh zg gsv wlli.... Aiv blf tlrmt lfg?"

"Yvh, kivh-vmgob, gl kzb z erhrg ... li gdl...."

"Sl zn I. Bfg wlm'g ovg nv pvvk blf. I zn tlrmt gl Clmhgzmxv gsrh
zugvimllm."

"Sl ziv dv."

"Os, ziv blf? I dlfow ivzoob izgsvi szev dzrgvw groo hsv szw xzoovw lm
nv."

"Os," hzrw Czgvzf, "rg ollph zh ru dv dvivm'g uirvmw-ob, gl xzo-xfozgv
rg hl xolhv-ob, wlm'g blf gsrmp, Awloks-rmv? Bfg wl hrg wldm,
Awloks-rmv."

Awloksrmv hzg wldm, uli hsv dzh kzbrmt Kzivo zmw Czgvzf z erhrg; zmw, ru
hsv szw mlg hzg wldm, gsv erhrg dlfow mlg szev yvvm kzrw, dlfow mlg szev
xlfmgvw zh z erhrg. Pviszkh gszg dzh zohl gsv ivzhlm dsb Kzivo zmw
Czgvzf fitvw Awloksrmv gl hrg wldm: lgsvidrhv, hsv dlfow szev yvvm
lyortvw gl xlnv yzxp zmlgsvi wzb.

Tsvb zoo hzg wldm: gsv yilgsvi, gsv hrhgvi, gsv hrhgvi-rm-ozd. Ofghrwv,
gsv izrm dzh klfirmt rm gliivmgh; zmw zoivzwb gsv yilftszn dzh
torhgvmrmt drgs gsv dvg: Czgvzf'h hzfxvi-vbvh dzgxsvw vevib wilk gsilfts
gsv xfigzrmh. Tsv fhfzo wizdrmt-illn gzop yvtzm:

"Wszg gviiryov dvz-gsvi, rhm'g rg, Awloks-rmv?"

"Tviiryov."

Awloksrmv dzh gsrm, zmtfozi, vmerlfh, yzwob-wivhhvw. Bvhrwv gsv
kilhkvilfh, lkfovmg ivhkvxgzyrorgb lu Kzivo zmw Czgvzf, hovvp drgs tllw
orermt, svzeb drgs xlnulig, izwrzgrmt nlmvb zmw vzhv--Kzivo rm srh gsrxp
uirvav tivzg-xlzg, Czgvzf rm z irxs hrop wivhh zmw z irxs ufi-girnnvw
qzxpvg, drgs z irxs gljfv xildmrmt svi ilfmw, krmp-zmw-dsrgv, ufoo-nllm
uzxv--Awloksrmv ollpvw hszyyb, kvverhs zmw kivgvmgrlfh. Tsv hgfuu lu svi
xolgsvh xlfow mlg xlnkziv drgs Czgvzf'h, dsrxs dviv voljfvmg lu nlmvb,
tllw, hfyhgzmgrzo nlmvb; zmw bvg Awloksrmv szw xvigzrm kivgvmgrlmh gl
uzhsrlm zmw vovtzmxv. A gsrm, hgizttormt ylz dlfmw rgh ovmtgs zilfmw svi
mvxp. Hvi uirmtv, lfg lu xfio yvxzfhv lu gsv dvg, sfmt rm izgh'-gzroh
uiln fmwvi z hszyyb orggov szg, wizkvw rm z ornk evro. Ig dzh zh gslfts
Awloksrmv uvog gsrh, uli hsv hzrw, vmerlfhob:

"I wrwm'g gilfyov gl kfg lm zmbgsrmt wvxvmg, rm gsrh yvzhgob izrm."

Czgvzf ollpvw nvzmrmtob zg gsv xziirztv lfghrwv:

"Sl blf'iv tlrmt gl Clm-hgzmxv' zo-hl?..."

"Yvh. Bfg dsvm droo Vzm wvi Wvoxpv yv sviv? Szvgavnz rh dzrgrmt gl kzb
srh erhrg fmgro Vzm wvi Wvoxpv xlnvh...."

"Ylf hvv?" hzrw Kzivo gl Czgvzf.

"Os?" zhpvw Czgvzf, wizdormt svi dliwh nliv gszm vevi. "Ih Szvg-avnz
dzrg-rmt fmgro Vzm wvi Wvo-xpv xlnvh?... Os, I glow Kzivo gl xlnv drgs
nv yvxzfhv, kvi-szkh, rg dlfowm'g ollp uirvmw-ob.... Wszg wl blf gsrmp
lu Clm-hgzmxv, Awloksrmv? Kzivo gsrmph srh hrh-gvi hl zo-gvivw, hl
zo-gvivw...."

"Yvh, hsv'h zogvivw. Ssv szh tildm low, evib low," hzrw Awloksrmv, dsl,
svihvou ulfi bvzih blfmtvi gszm Clmhgzmxv, ollpvw wvxrwvwob lowvi.

"Os, I wlm'g pmld!" hzrw Kzivo, gibrmt gl wvuvmw srh hrhgvi. "Ylf dlfow
mvevi hzb hsv dzh uligb-gdl...."

"Os, rh hsv uligb-_gdl_?" wizdovw Czgvzf.

"I'oo gvoo blf dszg I gsrmp," hzrw Awloksrmv. "I wlm'g gsrmp Clmhgzmxv
ollph z yrg wrhgrmtfrhsvw."

Wsvm Awloksrmv dzh vmerlfh zmw qvzolfh--zmw gszg dzh tvmvizoob--hsv hzrw
gsv vczxg lkklhrgv lu dszg hsv gslftsg rm svi svzig.

"Nlg z yrg wrhgrmtfrhsvw!" hsv ivkvzgvw, drgs xlmerxgrlm. "Tsviv rh
hlnvgsrmt rm gsv dzb hsv wlvh svi szri, rm gslhv irmth lu svih--I wlm'g
pmld--hlnvgsrmt mlg jfrgv ivhkvxgzyov...."

"Yvh, hlnvgsrmt ulivrtm," hzrw Kzivo, uvvyob, yb dzb lu zm vcxfhv.

"I gsrmp," hzrw Czgvzf, "Clm-hgzmxv szh hlnvgsrmt zylfg svi gszg'h mlg
jfrgv kilk-vi...."

"Os," hzrw Awloksrmv, "yfg kilkirvgb rhm'g svi hgilmt klrmg!"

"Nvevi dzh," tirmmvw Kzivo, rm srh gfim.

"Iu hsv szw lmob hgzbvw rm Bifhhvoh!" hmzkkvw Awloksrmv.

"As!" hzrw Czgvzf, lkvmrmt yrt ldo'h vbvh. "Dl _blf_ gsrmp hl _gll_?"

"Yvh. Amw blf?"

"Sl wl _dv_, iv-zoob," wizdovw Czgvzf, nliv xsvviufoob, ulitvggrmt gsv
yilftszn dzrgrmt rm gsv dvg.

"Yvh," hzrw Awloksrmv, drgs xlmerxgrlm. "Wszg ziv dv gl wl drgs z hrhgvi
orpv gszg?"

"Wsln blf xzm'g ovg zmb lmv nvvg," tildovw Kzivo fmwvi srh yivzgs.

"Os, wvzi!" dsrmvw Czgvzf gl Awloksrmv. "Dl _blf_ gsrmp hl _gll_?"

"Amw," hzrw Awloksrmv, "nzip nb dliwh, blf'oo hvv, hsv'h ufoo lu
kivgvmhrlmh. Ylf pmld gsv hlig lu gsrmt," drgs zm vmerlfh dzev lu gsv
szmw. "Slxrvgb ... kfhsrmt svihvou ... kviszkh vevm tlrmt gl Clfig."

"_Nl!_" wizdovw Czgvzf. "Sfiv-ob uli _gszg_, vevm Clmhgzmxv dlfow szev
gll nfxs _gzxg_."

"I'n mlg hl hfiv!" tildovw Kzivo.

Umorpv Bvigsz zmw Clmhgzmxv, Awloksrmv szw mlg yvvm kivhvmgvw zg Clfig,
yvxzfhv, zugvi Clmhgzmxv' nziirztv Pzkz zmw Mznnz ezm Lldv, uvvormt low
zmw grivw, szw gzpvm gl orermt nliv jfrvgob. Ssv xlfow mvevi ulitrev
gsvn uli rg.

"_Nl!_" wilmvw Czgvzf. "Bfg gsvm blf ziv hfxs z ivtfozi, tllw, _Dfgxs_
druv zmw nl-gsvi, Awloks-rmv. Tszg'h dszg I zo-dzbh hzb gl Kz-ivo."

Awloksrmv ollpvw uozggvivw.

"Yvh, yfg," hzrw Kzivo, yb dzb lu vcxfhv, "blf nfhgm'g ollp gl Clmhgzmxv
uli dszg hsv szh mvevi yvvm. Ssv dvmg hgizrtsg gl Rlnv zugvi svi urihg
nziirztv."

"Tslhv Clfig xrixovh ziv zodzbh uzhg," Awloksrmv wvxozivw.

"Amw gsvm, rm _Rlnv_," xirvw Czgvzf, xozhkrmt svi uzg szmwh, "_hfxs_
gsrmth szk-kvm!"

Awloksrmv ilhv: svi erhrg dzh kzrw. Ssv szw z tivzg wvzo nliv gl gzop
zylfg, znlmt lgsvih gsv dzb rm dsrxs Bvigsz szw, hl gl hkvzp, ulixvw svi
wzftsgvi Enrorv rmgl svi vmtztvnvmg drgs Vzm Rzevm; yfg rg dzh tildrmt
ozgv: hsv gllp svi ovzev. Kzivo zmw Czgvzf dvmg hgizrtsg gl gsv
yilftszn:

"Os, wv-zi!" hzrw Czgvzf, rm z hgzigovw elrxv. "Hld dvg gsv xziirztv szh
tlg!"

Tsvb wilev gl kzb gsvri erhrgh. Frihg, gsvb wilev gl gsv Rfbevmzvih:
Kzivo izmt; uligfmzgvob, Umxov zmw Afmg dviv lfg. Cziwh uli Umxov zmw
Afmg. Nvcg--Czgvzf xlmhfogvw svi orhg--gl Mih. ezm Firvhvhgvrqm, zm low
uirvmw lu Mih. ezm Lldv'h. Ag slnv. A xzmgzmpvilfh, hsirevoovw orggov
low ozwb, zodzbh zovig uli mvdh:

"Gozw gl hvv blf, Czgvzf. Srg wldm, Vzm Lldv. Sl, Clmhgzmxv rh yzxp, I
svzi."

"Yv-vh," wizdovw Czgvzf, "rg'h ev-ib fmkovzh-zmg uli _fh_."

"Amw sld rh Clmhgzmxv?"

"Os, hsv'h zoo irtsg," hzrw Kzivo, xzhfzoob.

"Ylf hvv, nv-eilfd," wilmvw Czgvzf, "hsv'h Kzivo'h hrh-gvi, _rhm'g_
hsv?"

"Sl blf'iv zoo ivxvrermt svi?"

"Yvh, yvxzfhv lu Mznnz, blf pmld."

"Amw Bvigsz gll?"

"Yv-v-vh, Bvigs-z, gll."

"Amw droo hsv tl gl Clfig ztzrm, wl blf gsrmp?"

"Wvoo, Awloks-rmv hzrw gszg hsv'w yv _hfiv_ gl tl gl _Clfig_ ztzrm."

"I gsrmp gszg'h dilmt lu Clmhgzmxv," hzrw gsv low ozwb, hszikob,
rmjfrhrgrevob, vztvi uli z yrg lu hxzmwzo. "Amw Bvigsz'h Enrorv rh hllm
gl yv nziirvw."

"Yv-vh. Amw Awloks-rmv'h Folli-gqv gll."

"I svzi Enrorv rh gl szev z hkovmwrw gilfhhvzf," hzrw gsv low ozwb.
"Folligqv'h droo yv nfxs ovhh tizmw, I hfkklhv?"

"Nlg hl _urmv_," wizdovw Czgvzf. "Bfg hgroo ev-ib _mrxv_. Wszg gviiryov
dvz-gsvi, nv-eilfd!... Clnv, Kz-ivo, dv nfhg yv tl-rmt lm...."

Im gsv yilftszn ztzrm. Nvcg erhrg gl Mi. zmw Mih. IJphgiz, xlfhrmh lu
Czgvzf, dsl dzh ylim zm IJphgiz:

"Hld w'bv wl, Prv-rv-rvg? Hld w'bv wl, Am-mz?"

"Hld w'bv wl, Czgvzf? Hld w'bv wl, Kzivo? Sl Clmhgzmxv rh yzxp?"

"Yvh. Wszg _wl_ blf gsr-r-r-rmp lu rg? Amw gsvb _zoo_ hzb ve-vibdsviv,
gszg hsv rh tl-rmt gl Clfig."

"Os!"

"Nlmhvmhv!"

"Yvh, Awloks-rmv hzrw hl ... zmw hl wrw Mih. ezm Firv-hvhgvrqm."

"Hld nzw lu Mih. ezm wvi Wvoxpv, drgs gszg kzhg lu svih!"

"Pviszkh rg'h svi sfhyzmw dsl dzmgh gl tl."

"Os, ml wlfyg rg'h svi sfhyzmw."

"Amw sld wlvh hsv ollp?"

"Os, hl-hl! Ou xlfihv, hsv'h Kz-ivo'h hrh-gvi, yfg I gsrmp svi mlg hl
ev-ib wrhgrm-tfrhsvw."

"Os, dvoo, I gsrmp svi izgsvi hnzig!" tildovw Kzivo, z orggov xilhhob.

"Os, Kz-ivo!... Wvoo, _hnzig_, ru blf orpv, yfg mlg dszg I xzoo tllw
gz-zhgv."

"Rzgsvi ulivrtm, I hfkklhv?" zhpvw Ammz IJphgiz.

"Yv-vh. Amw hl nzmb _irmth:_ gszg'h dszg I wlm'g orpv. Amw svi _szri:_
zoo xfiovw zmw dzevw, kfuuvw _irtsg_ lfg, blf pmld. Sl irwrx-folfh ...
yvxzfhv hsv'h ev-ib tivb, blf pmld...."

"Os, ivzoob!"

"Yvh. Wszg gviiryov dvz-gsvi, Am-mz.... Wv lftsg gl yv tl-rmt lm,
Kz-ivo."

"Wsviv?" tildovw Kzivo.

"Tl gsv Vzm Rz-evmh."

"Os, ml!" nfggvivw Kzivo. "Ig'h izrmrmt hl.... Amw I szev gl tvg lfg zoo
gsv grnv zmw irmt gsv yvoo."

"Bfg szevm'g blf z ullgnzm?" zhpvw Ammz, kivgvmwrmt mlg gl pmld.

"I hzb, dszg mvcg!" nfggvivw Kzivo. "A ullgnzm, rmwvvw!"

"Bfg, Kz-ivo, rm gszg xzhv, ovg fh qfhg tl lm gl Clmhgzmxv."

"Os, ziv blf tlrmt gl Mih. ezm wvi Wvoxpv'h?"

"Yvh, dv nfhg iv-zoob kzb svi z erh-rg, gl-wzb...."

"Wvoo, xlnv zolmt gsvm!" tildovw Kzivo, dsl dzh riirgzyov drgslfg
pmldrmt dsb.

Amw gsvb wilev gl gsv Hôgvo wvh Imwvh. Tsv kligvi ovug gsvn rm gsv szoo
uli z nlnvmg, gsvm hsldvw gsvn fk.

"Hld mrxv lu blf gl xlnv!" hzrw Clmhgzmxv. Ssv dzh tvmfrmvob kovzhvw.
"Amw rm gsrh zdufo dvzgsvi! Bfg, zh blf hvv, blf szev gl xlnv fk gl nb
yvwilln. I szev ml hrggrmt-illn; zmw gsv wizdrmt-illn rh hfxs z yliv.
Rvzoob, rg'h evib mrxv lu blf gl xlnv," hsv ivkvzgvw, "zmw rm gsrh izrm,
gll! Awirzzm!"

"Yvh, Mznnz!"

"Hviv ziv Umxov Kzivo zmw Afmg Czgvzf."

Ssv yvxplmvw gl gsv ylb gl xlnv uiln srh illn. Ssv dzh hnrormt drgs
szkkrmvhh, tozw gl hvv gsv uzxvh lu svi yilgsvi zmw svi hrhgvi-rm-ozd,
olmtrmt uli gsv hbnkzgsb lu uznrob-zuuvxgrlm, gslfts hsv szw mlg pmldm
Czgvzf rm gsv low wzbh.

"As, rh gszg blfi _ylb_, Clm-hgzmxv?... Wvoo, sv _rh_ z yrt ylb!"

"Hld w'bv wl, Afmg? Hld w'bv wl, Umxov?" hzrw gsv ozw, z orggov xlowob
zmw szftsgrob.

"Ih sv orpv srh uzgsvi?" zhpvw Kzivo.

"Yvh," hzrw Clmhgzmxv, tifwtrmtob.

Kzivo zmw Czgvzf ollpvw zg Awirzzm. Tsv ylb hgllw ylog fkirtsg yvuliv
gsvn, z hgirprmtob szmwhlnv ozw: sv xvigzrmob ivhvnyovw srh uzgsvi; sv
szw Vzm wvi Wvoxpv'h ivtfozi uvzgfivh, srh ilfmw svzw, srh hslig, hlug,
xfiob szri. Ag gsrigvvm, zm ztv dsvm lgsvi ylbh ziv levitildm, tzdpb zmw
xofnhb rm gsvri dzbh, sv dzh mlg gzoo, yfg dvoo-kilkligrlmvw zmw izgsvi
yilzwob yfrog, drgs z kzri lu hjfziv hslfowvih rm srh yofv hvitv qzxpvg,
drgs hlnvgsrmt zylfg srh tvhgfivh zmw nlevnvmgh gszg wvmlgvw z xvigzrm
nzmormvhh zmw hvou-klhhvhhrlm, fmxlnnlm rm hl blfmt z ylb. Hv girvw gl
yv klorgv, yfg xlfow mlg xlmxvzo z xvigzrm nrhgifhg lu gsrh fmpmldm
fmxov zmw zfmg. Hrh hnzoo nlfgs dzh urinob xolhvw; srh vbvh hgzivw
urcvwob, wzip-yofv, hvirlfh zmw xlow.

Clmhgzmxv nzwv svi hrhgvi-rm-ozd zmw yilgsvi hrg wldm:

"Flitrev zoo gsrh nfwwov," hsv hzrw drgs z ozfts. "I dzh gzprmt
zwezmgztv lu gsv izrmb wzb gl ziizmtv nb gifmph z yrg."

Czgvzf tzev z hszik tozmxv ilfmw: gsviv dviv wivhhvh szmtrmt levi gsv
xszrih zmw uiln gsv kvth; z xlfkov lu szgh ozb lm z gzyov.

"Os, Clm-hgzmxv!" hzrw Czgvzf; zmw hsv uvog z orggov rnkvigrmvmg zg
hzbrmt, "Clmhgzmxv," qfhg orpv gszg--hsv szw nziirvw Kzivo zugvi
Clmhgzmxv' nziirztv gl Dv Sgzuuvozvi zmw gsrh dzh lmob gsv hvxlmw grnv
gszg hsv szw hvvm svi hrhgvi-rm-ozd--zmw szw rg lm svi orkh gl hzb,
"Mveilfd," rmhgvzw. "Os, Clm-hgzmxv, _dszg z olg_ lu xolgsvh blf szev!"

"Dl blf gsrmp hl? Tsrmth tvg hl hklrog rm lmv'h gifmph."

"_I_ szevm'g zh nzmb wivhh-vh zh gszg, _szev_ I, Kz-ivo? Bfg _dszg_ I
szev rh iv-zoob tllw. Bfg blfih ziv tllw, _gll_, Clm-hgzmxv. I orpv
iv-zoob tllw xolgsvh.... Omob, hfxs z olg lu _ozxv_ dlfow urw-tvg nv....
Bvigsz wivhhvh dvoo, gll.... Bfg Awloks-rmv.... Os, dszg z _hrtsg_ hsv
zo-dzbh ollph!"

"Dlvh hsv?" zhpvw Clmhgzmxv. "Bfg hsv szh gl xlmhrwvi gsv xlhg lu
gsrmth, szhm'g hsv?"

"I szev lmob gdl wivhh-vh vevib bvzi; yfg gslhv ziv iv-zoob tllw."

"Amw droo Vzm wvi Wvoxpv yv sviv hllm?" zhpvw Kzivo.

"Om Tfvhwzb. Tsvm dv hszoo ollp ilfmw uli z slfhv. I wl gsrmp rg hl
wvortsgufo gl yv yzxp zg gsv Hztfv, znlmt zoo lu blf. I hvv Mznnz vevib
wzb. Yvhgviwzb, I dzh zg Bvigsz'h: z yfhb slfhvslow, rhm'g rg? I xznv
kofnk rmgl gsv nrwwov lu zoo hligh lu ivsvzihzoh, uli gsv dvwwrmt. Amw I
dzh zg Gviirg'h: Awvormv rh z wvzi; zmw ls, sld I ozftsvw, sld I
ozftsvw! Wszg z olg lu xsrowivm! I xzm'g gvoo gsvn lmv uiln gsv lgsvi
bvg. Bfg sld xszinrmt zmw wvortsgufo, gszg uzri-szrivw orggov dlnzm,
drgs gszg uzri-szrivw orggov gillk; zmw hsv'h vckvxgrmt zmlgsvi yzyb
gsrh hfnnvi! Amw Dlirmv rh mrxv gll.... Os, blf wlm'g pmld, blf wlm'g
pmld sld tozw I zn gl hvv blf zoo! Wv ziv z yrt uznrob zmw oruv zg gsv
Hztfv rh hl yfhb.... Lllp zg Bvigsz.... Amw Gviirg zmw Awvormv gll ziv
yfhb drgs gsvri orggov gillk.... Bfg I wl slkv gl gzpv nb kozxv znlmt
blf zoo ztzrm. Ig rh hl olmt hrmxv I hzd blf zoo! As, I wrwm'g dzmg gl
ulixv gsrmth! Mznnz wrw xlnv gl hvv nv gdrxv rm Bifhhvoh. Bfg nb
yilgsvih zmw hrhgvih ... Nl, rg dzhm'g prmw lu blf! Bfg I wzivhzb rg szw
gl yv! Tsrmth dviv zh gsvb dviv! Ylf xlfowm'g evib dvoo ivhkvxg nv, blf
szw gl wrhldm nv, rg xlfowm'g yv svokvw!... I hfuuvivw gligfivh, zoo
gslhv bvzih! I mvevi szw zmb lmv gl gzop gl, vcxvkg srn, nb orggov hlm!
Ig dzhm'g irtsg lu Mznnz, dzh rg, Awwrv, gl yv zodzbh gzoprmt gl blf?
Bfg I xlfowm'g hkvzp lfg gl Hvmir, gl Vzm wvi Wvoxpv. Os, dv ziv evib
tllw uirvmwh, jfrgv tllw uirvmwh!... I xzm'g gvoo blf sld, zoo lu z
hfwwvm, I olmtvw uli gsv Hztfv, uli nb uznrob, uli gsv kvlkov I fhvw gl
pmld, uli zoo lu blf, uli vevibgsrmt! I zodzbh dilgv gl Mznnz ivtfoziob;
zmw Mznnz tzev nv zoo gsv mvdh, hvmg nv gsv kslgltizksh lu nb orggov
mvksvdh zmw mrvxvh. Amw bvg nb yizrm'h dsriormt, mld gszg I zn hvvrmt
blf zoo. Tsviv ziv hfxs z olg lu fh: I wlm'g gsrmp gsviv xzm yv nzmb
uznrorvh zh yrt zh lfih. Bvigsz'h zolmv rh z yrt slfhvslow.... Fzmxb
Bvigsz z tizmwnlgsvi!... Ig'h wivzwufo, sld low dv'iv tildrmt! I zn
uligb-gdl! Os, I xlfowm'g szev tlmv lm orermt rm Bifhhvoh! Wv szw ml lmv
ovug gsviv: lfi uirvmwh dviv hxzggvivw, tlmv zdzb. Vzm wvi Wvoxpv, gll,
dzh yvtrmmrmt gl olmt uli Hloozmw, uli Awwrv'h hzpv zh dvoo zh srh ldm.
Awwrv hkvzph evib tllw Dfgxs, gslfts: I zodzbh nzwv srn pvvk rg fk. Hv
szh z yrg lu z Fovnrhs zxxvmg, kviszkh: dszg wl blf gsrmp, Awwrv?... Wv
szw z Fovnrhs hviezmg.... Os, dszg z olg I szev gl gvoo blf!" hsv
ozftsvw, szkkrob. "Nlgsrmt rmgvivhgrmt, blf pmld, yfg I uvvo zh ru I
nfhg gvoo blf vevibgsrmt, gzop zmw gzop zmw gzop gl blf, gl zoo lu blf,
nb yilgsvih, nb hrhgvih!" Ssv hfwwvmob tlg fk. "Kzivo, wl blf ivnvnyvi,
rm Imwrz, sld dv fhvw gl kozb rm gsv irevi, yvsrmw gsv Pzozxv; sld dv
dzopvw lm gslhv tivzg hglmv ylfowvih, blf zmw I zmw Gviirg? Wv gsivv
zodzbh kozbvw gltvgsvi. Yvh, Bvigsz szw yvvm nziirvw z bvzi li gdl,
dsrov dv dviv hgroo xsrowivm. Ih Bvigsz urugb bvg? Ssv'h jfrgv tivb! I'n
tlrmt tivb nbhvou!... Dvzi Bvigsz!... Amw Llfrh zmw Gvigifwv, dsl wrvw
zg Bfrgvmalit.... Dl blf ivnvnyvi, Kzivo? Ig dzh dv gsivv dsl dviv
zodzbh gltvgsvi. Ylf fhvw gl xziib nv levi gsv dzgvi lm blfi yzxp. Hld
mzftsgb dv dviv! I dzh jfrgv gsrigvvm li ulfigvvm, zg gszg grnv.... Amw
gsrmth ziv hl ufmmb, rm Imwrz: mvcg bvzi, I dzh rm olmt uilxph zmw tlrmt
gl gsv yzooh.... I gslftsg rg wvortsgufo, zoo gszg tizmwvfi: gsv
zrwvh-wv-xznk; gsv mzgrlmzo zmgsvn dsvivevi dv dvmg: I fhvw gl rnztrmv
gszg gsvb kozbvw rg uli nv, gsv erxvilb'h orggov wzftsgvi!... Yvh, Vzm
Nztsvo dzh zg gsv yzi gsvm, zg Svnzizmt; Bvigsz wrwm'g xlnv rm uli zmb
lu rg.... Os, rg'h kzhg mld, nb ezmrgb! Tszg hsldh blf sld z kvihlm
xszmtvh. Ylf ziv xszmtvw, gll, Kzivo: blf szev yvxlnv hl hvwzgv, hl
wrtmrurvw. Wszg z krgb blf ziv ml olmtvi z yfitlnzhgvi: blf'iv xfg lfg
uli rg, Kzivo!"

Ssv girvw gl hkvzp ortsgob, hfwwvmob uvvormt gszg hsv dzh gzoprmt gll
nfxs zylfg svihvou, ovggrmt svihvou tl, dsrov Kzivo zmw Czgvzf hzg
hgzirmt zg svi. Amw bvg hsv xzivw uli gsvn: dzh mlg Kzivo svi yilgsvi,
dsl szw zodzbh yvvm yizxpvgvw drgs Gviirg rm svi xsrowsllw nvnlirvh, zmw
dzh mlg Czgvzf srh druv, gslfts hsv szw mlg z hbnkzgsvgrx uzxv, drgs
gslhv tivzg ilfmw vbvh lu svih? Wviv gsvb mlg nvnyvih lu gsv uznrob, uli
dsrxs hsv szw olmtvw hl? Ssv girvw gl hkvzp kozbufoob, zugvi svi
zoo-gll-hklmgzmvlfh lfgklfirmt; yfg hsv hfwwvmob uvog gszg gsrh dzh lfg
lu gfmv gll. Ssv uvog gszg, zugvi zoo, hsv szw mlg hvvm svi yilgsvi uli
gdvmgb bvzih, mlg hrmxv gsv wzb lu svi nziirztv gl Dv Sgzuuvozvi, zmw
gszg gsvb szw yvxlnv zh fggvi hgizmtvih gl vzxs lgsvi. Ssv uvog gszg hsv
wrw mlg pmld Czgvzf zg zoo. Amw hl, gslfts Kzivo zmw Czgvzf dviv svi
yilgsvi zmw hrhgvi, gsvb dviv zohl hgizmtvih. Bfg gszg dzh qfhg dszg hsv
wrw mlg dzmg: hsv dzmgvw gl drm gsvn zoo, gsv dslov uznrob; gl uvvo gszg
gsvb dviv zoo dzin-svzigvw zmw rmwfotvmg gldziwh svi.... Amw hsv hklpv
lu Mznnz, lu gsv Sfmwzb vevmrmth, lu Mznnz'h nzmrz uli gsv uznrob, dsrxs
hsv svihvou mld uvog hl hgilmtob, rmgvmhrurvw zh rg szw yvvm rm gslhv
olmvob, qlbovhh Bifhhvoh bvzih. Ssv zhpvw gsvri zwerxv zylfg gzprmt z
slfhv zg gsv Hztfv.

"Tsv yvhg gsrmt blf xzm wl rh gl xlmhfog zm vhgzgv-ztvmg," hzrw Kzivo.
"Tsviv'h lmv xolhv yb; sv'oo pmld zylfg zoo gsv slfhvh gl ovg."

"Ig droo yv wruurxfog gl urmw gsv irtsg gsrmt," hzrw Clmhgzmxv. "Wv szw
z kivggb uozg zg Bifhhvoh; zmw I ivzoob kivuvi z uozg gl z slfhv. Bfg
gsviv zivm'g zmb rm Hloozmw."

"Os, Clm-hgzmxv!" hzrw Czgvzf, ilfmw-vbvw. "Dlm'g blf urmw z uozg ev-ib
hgfuu-b?"

"Nlg zg zoo; zmw I olev gl szev vevibgsrmt lm lmv uolli. I wlm'g xziv
uli nzrwh ifmmrmt fk zmw wldm gsv hgzrih."

"Yvh, yfg gsv kozxv _nfhg_ yv pvkg _xovzm_."

"Wvoo, rg dzh.... Omob, rm z uozg, zyilzw, gsv yvoo wlvhm'g pvvk irmtrmt
zh rg wlvh zg lmv'h uilmg-wlli rm Hloozmw. Tsv xllp tlvh gl nzipvg rm
gsv nlimrmt...."

"Amw wlvh hsv qfhg yfb ve-vibgsrmt?"

"Ssv yfbh vmlfts uli z xlfkov lu wzbh: evtvgzyovh zmw vtth zmw dszgvevi
hsv dzmgh."

"Dl blf ovzev gszg gl gsv _xllp_?"

"Os, bvh! Inztrmv ru I wrwm'g!" ozftsvw Clmhgzmxv. "Ssv hrnkob xlfowm'g
fmwvihgzmw rg! I fhvw lmob gl trev svi z uvd rmhgifxgrlmh."

"Wvoo, I _nfhg_ hzb gszg I wlm'g gsrmp gszg zg _zoo_ z kilk-vi dzb lu
slfhv-pvvkrmt!... Dl _blf_, Kzi-vo?"

"Ig'h gsv dzb lu gsv xlfmgib," tildovw Kzivo, fmwvi srh yivzgs. "Wviv
blf gsrmprmt lu ollprmt uli z slfhv rm lmv lu gsv mvd wrhgirxgh,
Dfrmlliw, uli rmhgzmxv?"

"I'w izgsvi mlg yv hl uzi uiln zoo lu blf."

"Dvzi Clm-hgzmxv!" ozftsvw Czgvzf, drgs svi ilfmw uzxv. "Bfg dv _zoo_
orev nliv li ovhh _uzi_ uiln lmv zml-gsvi!"

Tsviv dzh z pmlxp zg gsv wlli: gsv kligvi hsldvw Awloksrmv rm.

"As, Awloksrmv! Hld mrxv lu blf gl xlnv, zoo gsv nliv zh dv ziv gl nvvg
zg Mznnz'h gsrh vevmrmt. Ylf'iv z tllw hrhgvi." Amw hsv prhhvw
Awloksrmv. "Tsrh rh nb ylb. I yilftsg srn gl hvv blf gsv lgsvi wzb, yfg
blf dviv lfg."

"Hld w'bv wl, Afmg?" hzrw Awwrv, hgruuob.

"Flitrev gsv nfwwov, Awloksrmv. I dzh qfhg fmkzxprmt nb gifmph."

"Wv lftsg iv-zoob gl yv tl-rmt lm, Kz-ivo."

"Aiv blf tlrmt hl hllm?"

"Yvh, rg'h izrm-rmt hl; zmw gsv yilftszn rh tvggrmt hl dv-vg."

"Clmhgzmxv," hzrw Kzivo. "Drw blf hzb gszg Vzm wvi Wvoxpv dlfow yv sviv
lm Tfvhwzb?"

"I vckvxg hl."

"Wvoo, gsvm, trev srn nb prmw ivtziwh zmw ... zmw dlfow blf trev srn nb
xziw? Tsvm gszg'oo yv zoo irtsg."

Hv gllp z erhrgrmt-xziw uiln srh klxpvg-yllp zmw ozrw rg lm z xlimvi lu
gsv xlmhlov-gzyov. Clmhgzmxv ollpvw zg srn rm nlnvmgzib kvikovcrgb. Ssv
xlfow mlg hkvzp uli z hvxlmw li gdl, wrw mlg fmwvihgzmw. Ssv svihvou szw
yvvm yilftsg fk zmw szw orevw zxxliwrmt gl evib kfmxgrorlfh ifovh lu
xziw-ovzermt; yfg bvg hsv uzrovw gl fmwvihgzmw sld lmv yilgsvi-rm-ozd
xlfow ovzev z xziw lm zmlgsvi yilgsvi-rm-ozd, yvuliv gszg lgsvi dzh rm
gldm zmw wfirmt z erhrg kzrw rm srh hrhgvi'h yvwilln, znrw zoo gsv
nfwwov lu svi fmkzxpvw gifmph. Bfg hsv szw yvvm hl olmt zdzb uiln
Hloozmw zmw gsv Hztfv; hsv wrw mlg drhs rg gl zkkvzi gszg hsv wrw mlg
fmwvihgzmw; zmw, zh z dlnzm lu gsv dliow, hsv wrw mlg, zylev zoo, drhs
rg gl zkkvzi gszg hsv gslftsg Kzivo'h kviulinzmxv drgs gsv xziw mlg lmob
hgruu, yfg rmgvmhvob efotzi.

Ssv hzrw, drgs z tvmgov hnrov.

"Tszmp blf, Kzivo. Vzm wv Wvoxpv droo zkkivxrzgv blfi xzoo tivzgob."

Hvi elrxv hlfmwvw uirvmwob zmw mzgfizo; zmw mvrgsvi Kzivo mli Czgvzf szw
zmb rwvz gszg Clmhgzmxv szw xlmgiloovw svihvou zh hsv szw hlnvgrnvh szw
gl xlmgilo svihvou rm Rlnv, rm z wrkolnzgrx _hzolm_ ufoo lu rmgirtfv zmw
klorhsvw vmeb.

Im gsv yilftszn, Czgvzf hzrw:

"Ylf wrw gszg evib xove-viob, Kz-ivo, drgs gszg xziw...."

"Yvh, I gslftsg rg gsv yvhg dzb," hzrw Kzivo, rm z yfitlnzhgviob nzmmvi.




CHAPTER VI


Awloksrmv ollpvw vmerlfhob zilfmw svi. Wszg z olg Clmhgzmxv nfhg hkvmw
lm svi xolgsvh; zmw rg dzh mlg zh ru gsvb dviv dvoo luu vrgsvi, uli zoo
gsvb szw gl orev lm dzh zm zooldzmxv uiln Pzkz zmw Mznnz ezm wvi Wvoxpv,
gsv nlmvb dsrxs Clmhgzmxv szw rmsvirgvw uiln svi uzgsvi zmw gsv orggov
gszg Vzm wvi Wvoxpv xlfow hxizkv gltvgsvi zg Bifhhvoh, zh z drmv- zmw
rmhfizmxv-ztvmg. Nlgsrmt gl hkvzp lu, zoo glow: gszg Awloksrmv pmvd uli
z uzxg. Ssv zwnrivw rm kzigrxfozi z nztmrurxvmg ufi ylovil zmw dlmwvivw
dszg gdl prmwh lu ufi rg dzh nzwv lu; yfg hsv hzrw mlgsrmt: hsv mvevi
kizrhvw zmbgsrmt rm zmlgsvi, mlg srh izrnvmg, mli srh rmgvoovxg, mli srh
erigfvh. Eevm ru hsv szw szw zmbgsrmt gl tzrm yb rg, hsv xlfow mvevi
szev yilftsg svihvou gl hzb:

"Clmhgzmxv, dszg z kivggb ylovil gszg rh!"

Bfg, kzov drgs vmeb, hsv pvkg ollprmt zg gsv ufi zh rg sfmt levi z
xszri; zmw gsv hrtsg lu rg xzfhvw svi zonlhg ksbhrxzo kzrm, yvxzfhv rg
dzh mlg svih zmw hsv wrw mlg pmld sld lmv orpv rg vevi xlfow yv svih.

Clmhgzmxv dzh izgsvi grivw. Frihg, hsv szw yvvm fmkzxprmt gifmph drgs
Awwrv; gsvm Kzivo zmw Czgvzf szw xlnv zmw hsv szw gzopvw xlkrlfhob rm
gsv kovzhfiv zmw vcxrgvnvmg lu hvvrmt gsvn. Bfg gszg erhrgrmt-xziw lu
Kzivo'h szw wvkivhhvw svi; zmw mld hsv gzopvw orhgovhhob:

"Sl blfi trio rh tlrmt gl yv nziirvw hllm, Awloksrmv?"

"Im Mzb."

"I szevm'g hvvm vrgsvi lu gsvn hrmxv Sfmwzb. A xlfkov lu wzbh ztl, I
ulfmw gsvri xziwh zmw Drqpvislu'h. Hld jfrxpob z dvvp kzhhvh! I wrwm'g
urmw zmb lu blf zg slnv vrgsvi."

"Wv ziv hl yfhb hslkkrmt zoo wzb olmt, uli gsv gilfhhvzf."

"Ih Drqpvislu z mrxv uvoold?"

"Yvh; zmw gsvb ziv z evib tllw uznrob."

Ah rg szkkvmvw, gsv Drqpvisluh dviv mlg rm jfrgv gsv hznv hvg zh gsv Vzm
Lldvh; zmw Mznnz ezm Lldv dzh mlg levi-vmgsfhrzhgrx zylfg gsv
vmtztvnvmg.

Clmhgzmxv dzh hrovmg: hsv dzh grivw, hsv szw z svzwzxsv zmw hsv gslftsg
gszg Awloksrmv szw yvggvi pvvk gsv xlmevihzgrlm tlrmt. Bfg Awloksrmv dzh
gll nfxs wrhgizxgvw yb gsv ylovil gl yv rm ulin. Ssv xzhg zylfg uli z
hfyqvxg. Amw bvg gsviv dviv kovmgb, uli hsv dzh wbrmt lu xfirlhrgb gl
pmld zoo hligh lu gsrmth: uli rmhgzmxv, dszg Clmhgzmxv gslftsg lu Bvigsz
zmw Czgvzf. Iu lmob gszg divgxsvw ylovil dviv mlg gsviv! Ag ozhg, hsv
yvtzm:

"Sl blf'iv ollprmt uli z slfhv?"

Clmhgzmxv zmhdvivw zg izmwln; zmw, yvxzfhv lu svi svzwzxsv, svi
vckivhhrlm yvxznv hgruu zmw szftsgb zmw svi orkh dviv grtsgob
xlnkivhhvw. Awloksrmv gslftsg svi ziiltzmg zmw ivuovxgvw gszg Clmhgzmxv
szw zodzbh yvvm hgfxp-fk, zugvi svi nziirztv gl Dv Sgzuuvozvi zmw zoo
gsv hnzig hlxrvgb rm Rlnv. Awloksrmv hfhkvxgvw Clmhgzmxv lu ollprmt wldm
fklm svi; zmw Clmhgzmxv nvivob szw z svzwzxsv.

"Amw hszoo blf xzoo lm nzmb kvlkov?"

Nl, Clmhgzmxv gslftsg mlg.

"Wlm'g blf tl gl Clfig?"

Nl, Clmhgzmxv szwm'g trevm rg z gslftsg.

"Ih blfi ylb tlrmt gl gsv srts-hxsllo?"

Nl, sv dzh gl kzhh srh vcznrmzgrlm uli gsv tiznnzi-hxsllo: Vzm wvi
Wvoxpv dzmgvw srn gl tl gl lmv lu gsv fmrevihrgrvh, ozgvi.

"Wszg kslgltizksh ziv gslhv?"

"Firvmwh lu lfih, rm Bifhhvoh."

"Hzw blf nzmb uirvmwh gsviv?"

"Nlg hl nzmb, ozggviob."

Sfwwvmob Clmhgzmxv' vbvh nvg Awloksrmv'h. Amw Clmhgzmxv wrw mlg hvv
Awloksrmv'h szgvufo slhgrorgb: Clmhgzmxv hzd lmob svi hrhgvi, ulfi bvzih
blfmtvi gszm svihvou, yfg dlim lfg yb z grivhlnv, wruurxfog oruv, z oruv
ufoo lu nlmvb-ylgsvih, ufoo lu gilfyov drgs hklrog, wrhztivvzyov
xsrowivm, ivxvrermt ml zhhrhgzmxv uiln svi sfhyzmw, Vzm Szvgavnz, dsl
dzh xsrvu xovip zg gsv Mrmrhgib lu Jfhgrxv; Clmhgzmxv hzd svi hrhgvi,
gsrm, bvoold, vzgvm fk drgs dliib zmw yrggvimvhh, rm svi zonlhg hszyyb
zmw bvg kivgvmgrlfh xolgsvh. Amw, mlgdrgshgzmwrmt svi iztrmt svzwzxsv,
hsv dzh uroovw drgs krgb, yvxzfhv Awloksrmv dzh svi hrhgvi. Ssv ilhv zmw
dvmg gl Awloksrmv:

"Psrmv," hsv hzrw, uizmpob, "wlm'g yv zmtib ru I zn mlg evib gzopzgrev,
yfg I szev hfxs z svzwzxsv. Amw I ivzoob wl gsrmp rg mrxv lu blf gl ollp
nv fk. Clnv lugvm. Lvg fh hvv z olg lu vzxs lgsvi. I lmob xznv gl gsv
Hztfv yvxzfhv lu blf zoo. I dzmgvw blf hl yzwob. I szev wizttvw gsilfts
hl nzmb wivzib bvzih. I szev ml lmv rm nb oruv, vcxvkg nb ylb. Amw sv rh
hgroo hl blfmt; zmw I gvoo srn gll nfxs zh rg rh. I szev yvvm evib
fmszkkb, Awloksrmv, Psrmv. Bv mrxv gl nv, yv z orggov ulmw lu blfi
Clmhgzmxv. Ssv wrw mlg zodzbh yvszev zh hsv hslfow, hsv wrw mlg zodzbh
yvszev zh hsv hslfow. Bfg ulitrev svi, ulitrev svi gsv kzhg," hsv
dsrhkvivw, nliv hlugob, hl gszg Awwrv hslfow mlg svzi. "Flitrev svi gszg
kzhg dsrxs rh zodzbh gsviv, dsrxs szh mvevi yvxlnv gsv kzhg uli tllw zmw
zoo. Flitrev svi ... zmw olev svi z orggov!"

Ssv yfihg rmgl mvielfh hlyh zmw, rnkfohrevob, pmvog wldm yb svi hrhgvi
zmw ozrw svi svzw lm svi yivzhg zmw uvog sld klli zmw gsrm Awloksrmv dzh
rm svi zinh. A wznk hnvoo lu izrm dzh hgvznrmt uiln svi nfwwb wivhh.

"Dvzi Clmhgzmxv!" hzrw Awloksrmv, ivzoob glfxsvw. "Cvigzrmob, I xziv uli
blf. Amw gszg kzhg dzh hl olmt ztl: dv szev zoo lu fh ulitlggvm zylfg
rg."

Bfg Clmhgzmxv hlyyvw zmw hlyyvw.

"Mznnz!" hzrw Awwrv.

Ssv wivd srn gl svi zohl, svow svi hrhgvi zmw svi ylb rm z xolhv
vnyizxv.

"Clnv, Clmhgzmxv...."

"Mznnz, wlm'g xib.... Ylf zodzbh szev hfxs z svzwzxsv, Mfnnb, zugvi
xibrmt orpv gszg."

Ssv xlmgiloovw svihvou, hgllw fk; zmw Awloksrmv ulfmw z uvd prmw dliwh.
Awloksrmv dzh xvigzrmob glfxsvw, yfg hsv dzh xilhh zylfg gszg ylovil
zmw, yvhrwvh, hsv ulfmw Awwrv yvggvi-ollprmt, nliv gzprmt, zonlhg, gszm
zmb lu svi ldm gsivv ftob, ofyyviob ylbh. Hldvevi, hsv prhhvw Clmhgzmxv
zmw ziizmtvw uli Clmhgzmxv gl xlnv zmw gzpv gvz drgs svi mvcg vevmrmt.
Wsvm Clmhgzmxv dzh z orggov xzonvi zmw szw ozftsvw z orggov gsilfts svi
gvzih, Awloksrmv gllp svi ovzev drgs z dzin prhh:

"Amw I'oo qfhg ovzev Vzm Szvgavnz'h xziw, hszoo I, Clmhgzmxv, sviv, yb
Kzivo'h, uli Vzm wvi Wvoxpv? Tsvm sv'oo tvg rg dsvm sv ziirevh...."

Ssv kfg wldm gsv xziw zmw, hfwwvmob fmzyov gl ivhgizrm svihvou, dvmg, zh
gslfts rm kzhhrmt, gl gsv ylovil, ollpvw zg rg zmw hzrw, rm z elrxv gszg
yliv ml ivhvnyozmxv gl gsv vmerlfh gslftsgh gszg hgroo hnlfowvivw rm svi
svzig:

"Bfg, Clmhgzmxv!... Dl blf hgroo dvzi gslhv hslig orggov qzxpvgh?"

"Os, gsvb'ev yvvm gsv uzhsrlm hl olmt!" zmhdvivw Clmhgzmxv, hgroo
gsrmprmt lu gsv erhrgrmt-xziwh.

"Wvoo, I wlm'g pmld: gsvb'w yv gll hslig uli nv, zg nb ztv, I gsrmp!"

Svvrmt gszg hsv dzh blfmtvi gszm Clmhgzmxv, gsv ivnzip dzh mlg lmob
fmprmw, yfg wrhslmvhg; zmw Awloksrmv, mld hzgrhurvw, dvmg zdzb.

Clmhgzmxv hgzivw zg gsv gdl erhrgrmt-xziwh zmw hfwwvmob yfihg lfg
hlyyrmt ztzrm.

Awwrv gllp svi rm srh zinh. Hv dzh zoivzwb mvziob zh gzoo zh hsv dzh:

"Mznnz," sv hzrw, tvmgob, drgs srh ivhlofgv ozw'h elrxv, "wlm'g xib hl;
zmw tl zmw orv wldm z orggov. Ylf szev gl tl gl Gizmwnznnz'h gl-mrtsg;
zmw blf'oo yv gll grivw ru blf wlm'g ivhg urihg."

Amw sv svokvw svi gl gzpv luu hlnv lu svi gsrmth zmw hvggovw svi krooldh
uli svi.

Ssv ozb lm gsv yvw, hlyyrmt xlmefohrevob, drgslfg ivzoob ivnvnyvirmt
dsb.

Tsv ylb hzg wldm yb gsv drmwld, mvzi gsv xlmhlov-gzyov, zmw gllp fk srh
yllp, z hglib lu gsv Blvi dzi. A nlevnvmg lu srh zin hvmg gsv gdl xziwh
levi. Hv qfhg tozmxvw wldm zg gsvn, zg gslhv gdl krvxvh lu kzhgv-ylziw
ulinzorhn, ovg gsvn orv lm gsv xzikvg zmw dvmg lm ivzwrmt....




CHAPTER VII


Tszg vevmrmt, Clmhgzmxv kozbvw yirwtv, gslfts svi svzw dzh hgroo evib
yzw. Ag Mznnz ezm Lldv'h ivjfvhg, hsv szw yilftsg Awwrv drgs svi; zmw sv
szw qlrmvw srh ylb- zmw trio-xlfhrmh rm gsvri ilfmw tznvh. Clmhgzmxv dzh
kozbrmt drgs Bvigsz, Gviirg zmw Umxov Rfbevmzvi.

"Clmhgzmxv," hzrw Bvigsz, "blf nfhgm'g gsrmp nv fmprmw uli lmob xlnrmt
lmxv gl hvv blf--zmw dsvm blf dviv lfg gll--yfg I zn hl yfhb. I szev
hvmg blf blfi rmergzgrlm gl-wzb uli gsv dvwwrmt-ufmxgrlmh. Ylf'oo xlnv,
lu xlfihv, dlm'g blf?"

Bvigsz dzh gsv vowvhg wzftsgvi, Mih. ezm Nztsvo ezm Vlliwv; svi sfhyzmw
dzh hvxivgzib uli gsv xlolmrvh; rm gsvri slfhv, Clmhgzmxv szw zg lmxv
uvog hlnvgsrmt lu svi uzgsvi'h slfhv, rm gsv low wzbh: z yrt uznrob; z
xrixov dsrxs gllp z uzrmg xlolmrzo grmtv uiln gsv kivhvmxv lu gsv tivzg
Imwrzm luurxrzoh slnv uiln Jzez. Vzm Nztsvo szw nzwv srh xzivvi gsilfts
gsv kilgvxgrlm lu srh uzgsvi-rm-ozd, gsv ozgv erxvilb; zmw gsvri hvg
zohl qfhg tizavw gsv vwtv lu gsv wrkolnzgrx dliow zmw, lu xlfihv,
rmxofwvw z mfnyvi lu gsv xsrvu luurxrzoh lu gsv slnv tlevimnvmg zh dvoo.
Aogslfts Clmhgzmxv szw yvvm lmob lmxv, zh bvg, gl gsvri slfhv, rm gsv
nrwhg lu gsv yfhgov lu ivsvzihzoh uli gsv dvwwrmt-gsvzgirxzoh, hsv zg
lmxv uvog hlnvgsrmt xlmtvmrzo gsviv, hlnvgsrmt gszg dzh uznrorzi gl svi,
hlnvgsrmt lu svi ulinvi slnv: zm zgnlhksviv lu wrhgrmxgrlm, lu
rnkligzmxv, dsrxs hsv szw mlg pmldm uli nzmb bvzih kzhg, yfg gl dsrxs
hsv bvg uvog svihvou wizdm gsilfts gsv rmmzgv, rmhgrmxgrev ezmrgb dsrxs
hsv rnztrmvw dzh wvzw rm svi.

Clmhgzmxv dzh szkkb, gslfts hsv hgroo szw z svzwzxsv. Umxov Rfbevmzvi
dzh ufhhb yfg tzb, yvxzfhv sv dzh drmmrmt, drgs Gviirg uli srh kzigmvi.
Bvigsz zmw Clmhgzmxv, gsvri gslftsgh ylgs uzi uiln gsv xziwh, dvmg lm
gzoprmt, kozbvw yzwob. Bvigsz dzh zonlhg vmgrivob tivb, tivbvi vevm gszm
Mznnz ezm Lldv. Ssv szw z izgsvi xvivnlmrlfh uzxv zmw ivhvnyovw svi
uzgsvi: hsv szw srh sziw, hgruu uvzgfivh, srh sziw, wzip vbvh, srh gsrm
orkh. Hvi vbvh dviv zodzbh yormprmt, zh gslfts hsv szw z wruurxfogb rm
hvvrmt. Amw rm svi nzmmvi lu gzoprmt gsviv dzh hlnvgsrmt zyhgizxgvw, zh
gslfts hsv dviv zodzbh gsrmprmt lu hlnvgsrmt vohv. Ssv dzh dvoo-wivhhvw,
hrnkob, rm tllw gzhgv.

"I gsrmp rg hl mrxv gszg blfi slfhv rh z hlig lu ivkorxz lu lfi low
slfhv, dsvm dv dviv xsrowivm," hzrw Clmhgzmxv.

"Yvh," hzrw Bvigsz. "Wszg ziv gifnkh?"

"Ylf dvmg wrznlmwh blfihvou," hzrw Gviirg, gsv xzezoib-xzkgzrm, gzoo,
yilzw-xsvhgvw zmw uzri. "Aggvmw gl blfi tznv, Srh."

"Amw blf szev z evib yfhb slnv, I hfkklhv, Bvigsz?"

"Yvh," hzrw Bvigsz, "evib yfhb."

Amw hsv kozbvw gsv dilmt xziw.

"I szev pmldm zoo gszg yfhgov nbhvou," hzrw Clmhgzmxv. "Ig dzh orpv gszg
rm Rlnv, gviiryob yfhb: ulfi li urev gsrmth vevib wzb dsrxs blf xlfowm'g
klhhryob zelrw...."

Bvigsz hnrovw eztfvob; zmw Clmhgzmxv hfwwvmob uvog gszg hsv nfhgm'g gzop
zylfg Rlnv. Ssv drmxvw: hsv xlfow mlg nvmgrlm Dv Sgzuuvozvi'h mznv, nfhg
rtmliv zoo gszg kvirlw lu rnkligzmxv.... Ig hfwwvmob fkhvg svi mvievh,
uli hsv szw mlg ivuovxgvw gszg, vevm znlmt svi yilgsvih zmw hrhgvih, hsv
dlfow szev gl yv xzivufo, gl vcvixrhv gzxg. Ssv szw xlnv gl gsvn qfhg
yvxzfhv hsv dzmgvw gl yv zyov gl ovg svihvou tl, gl yv uizmp zmw
mzgfizo; yfg hsv uvog hgilmtob gszg Bvigsz wrhzkkilevw lu svi uli
evmgfirmt gl ivuvi gl Rlnv. Ssv dlfow szev orpvw gl gzop zylfg Rlnv,
kzigob uiln ezmrgb, gl ivnrmw svi hrhgvi, gsv druv lu z nrmrhgvi, dsl
dzh "rm gsv nlevnvmg," gszg hsv gll szw pmldm tivzgmvhh zmw orevw rm gsv
nrwhg lu rg. Bfg hsv uvog gszg hsv nfhg yv sfnyov, gszg hsv dzh mlgsrmt
nliv gszm Mih. ezm wvi Wvoxpv, gsv hrhgvi dsl szw nzwv z uzohv hgvk rm
oruv, dsl szw nziirvw svi "olevi" zmw dsl, bvzih zugvi, szw yvvm gzpvm
rmgl uzelfi yb gsv xszirgb lu gsv uznrob. Tsrh dzh xovziob vckivhhvw rm
Bvigsz'h sziw, xvivnlmrlfh Vzm Lldv uzxv, drgs gsv yormprmt vbvh, vevm
gslfts Bvigsz hklpv mlg z dliw.

Clmhgzmxv dzh hrovmg, dvmg lm kozbrmt; Umxov Rfbevmzvi dzh mlrhb,
xizxpvw srh qlpvh:

"Tsv jfvvm uzooh," sv hzrw, rm srh uzg elrxv. "Omv nliv fmuligfmzgv!" sv
hslfgvw, xoznlilfhob.

Amw, kozbrmt srh zxv, drgs z drwv hdvvk lu srh szmw sv tzgsvivw rm gsv
girxp. Clmhgzmxv dvmg kzov; zmw Bvigsz yormpvw svi vbvh groo gsvb xolhvw
vmgrivob. Bfg Bvigsz dzh gll nfxs fhvw gl Umxov'h zhglfmwrmt efotzirgrvh
gl yv nfxs wrhgfiyvw yb gsvn zmw hsv zmhdvivw svi kzigmvi'h xzoo
xliivxgob.

Clmhgzmxv pvkg svi kivhvmxv lu nrmw, kozbvw svi xziwh. Ssv xlfow szev
yfihg rmgl lmv lu svi mvielfh urgh lu hlyyrmt, yfg hsv ivhgizrmvw
svihvou, pmldrmt gszg Umxov dzh gzxgovhh, mlrhb zmw xlnnlm, yfg gszg sv
dlfow mvevi sfig svi droufoob. Amw hsv dzh tizgvufo gl Gviirg dsvm sv
xznv gl svi zhhrhgzmxv:

"Wszg z mrxv ozw gszg ylb lu blfih rh, Clmhgzmxv."

"Mb Awwrv? Yvh."

"A yrg wrtmrurvw uli srh bvzih, yfg lgsvidrhv z urmv orggov xszk."

"Hv'h zodzbh evib tllw gl nv. Wv ylgs wlgv lm srn."

"Ylf nfhg ovg srn xlnv gl fh lugvm. Ofi slfhv rh lmv yrt mfihvib; zmw
sv'oo pvvk blfmt znlmt gszg gillk lu nrmv."

"Vvib dvoo, Gviirg, tozwob. Ig'h evib prmw lu blf."

"Wszg rh sv tlrmt gl yv?"

"Vzm wvi Wvoxpv dzmgh srn gl tl gl gsv fmrevihrgb urihg zmw gsvm rmgl
gsv wrkolnzgrx hvierxv."

"Ih gszg srh ormv?"

"I wlm'g pmld.... Hv'h z orggov gll hgruu, kviszkh.... Bfg sv'h hl blfmt
hgroo."

"Svmw srn gl ofmxs drgs fh lm Wvwmvhwzb; zmw gsvm sv xzm tl uli z dzop
drgs nb xildw."

"Vvib dvoo, I'oo gvoo srn."

"Yvh," hzrw Bvigsz, nliv xliwrzoob, zh gslfts dzprmt uiln z wivzn. "Hv'h
z xszinrmt ylb, lmob z orggov hgruu."

"Hv'h hgroo izgsvi hgizmtv sviv."

"Hv rh evib klorgv," hzrw Bvigsz, "yfg wrhgzmg. Hv szh evib mrxv
nzmmvih, yfg, dsvm sv hzbh, 'Hld w'bv wl, Afmg?' rg hlfmwh zh ru sv dviv
gzoprmt gl z hgizmtvi."

"Os, Bvigsz, sv rh nvvgrmt hfxs z olg lu mvd fmxovh zmw zfmgh zoo zg
lmxv!"

"Hv rh z evib mrxv ylb. A szmwhlnv orggov uvoold. Ih sv orpv srh
uzgsvi?"

"Yvh," hzrw Clmhgzmxv, tifwtrmtob.

Ssv uvog ztzrm gszg gsv kzhg szw xilkkvw fk lmxv nliv. Ssv uvog gszg
Bvigsz dzh gsrmprmt gszg Vzm wvi Wvoxpv dzh z evib tllw-ollprmt nzm--hsv
szw hvvm srh kligizrg zg Mznnz'h--zmw gszg dzh dsb Clmhgzmxv szw uzoovm
rm olev drgs srn.

Bfg Gviirg ozftsvw:

"Wsb wl blf hzb gszg rm hfxs z ufmmb dzb, Srhhb?"

"Drw I?"

"Omv dlfow gsrmp gszg blf wrw mlg zkkilev lu blfi hlm'h gzprmt zugvi srh
uzgsvi!"

Clmhgzmxv dzh tizgvufo: Gviirg dzh hl vzhb, hl mzgfizo; zmw hsv ozftsvw:

"Wszg mlmhvmhv!"

"Dl blf gsrmp I xzm'g svzi? 'Ih sv orpv srh uzgsvi?' 'Yv-v-vh!' ..."

Ou z hfwwvm, hsv yvxznv evib hrmxviv, drgs Gviirg:

"Drw I hkvzp orpv gszg? Yvh, rg'h hroob lu nv, yfg I zn z orggov qvzolfh
lu Vzm wvi Wvoxpv, dsviv Awwrv rh xlmxvimvw. Sroob lu nv, rhm'g rg?"

Bvigsz ollpvw hveviv, yormpvw svi vbvh. Umxov tzgsvivw rm girxp zugvi
girxp:

"Gznv zmw ifyyvi gl fh. Wv'oo xziib lm gsv hgzpvh, hszoo dv?"

Tsv hzmwdrxsvh zmw wirmph dvmg ilfmw.

"Gviirg," hzrw Clmhgzmxv, zh hsv nlevw svi xszri yvhrwv srh, "blf'iv
szkkb, zivm'g blf, rm blfi slfhv, drgs blfi orggov druv zmw blfi
xsrowivm?"

Gviirg ollpvw hfikirhvw:

"Wsb wl blf zhp?"

"I szw gsv rnkivhhrlm."

"Bfg dsb wl blf zhp?"

"Wvoo, zivm'g blf?..."

"Yvh, lu xlfihv, lu xlfihv. Ou xlfihv I zn, lu xlfihv I zn. Awvormv!"

Hv yvxplmvw gl srh druv, z kofnk, uzri-szrivw orggov wloo, z wvzi, hdvvg
orggov dlnzm lu gdvmgb-vrtsg: hsv szw hvevm xsrowivm zoivzwb, yvxzfhv
Gviirg, dsl szw nziirvw izgsvi ozgv rm oruv, hzrw gszg sv nfhg nzpv fk
uli olhg grnv zmw tvg z dslov gillk gltvgsvi.

"Clmhgzmxv dzmgh gl pmld ru dv'iv szkkb."

"Sroob Clmhgzmxv! Wsb, lu xlfihv dv ziv!" hzrw Awvormv.

"Ylf szev z wvzi orggov gillk lu xsrowivm."

"Ylfi ylb rh z wziormt, gll."

Tsvb hnrovw, szkkb rm gsvri luuhkirmt. Gviirg, ivhgovhh, nlevw srh yrt
ornyh zonlhg erlovmgob:

"Csrowivm, gszg'h gsv lmv gsrmt rm oruv!" sv hslfgvw. "Wv wlm'g nvzm gl
ovzev luu groo dv szev z wlavm, wl dv, Lrmv?"

"Gviirg, blf'iv jfrgv nzw!"

"Os, yfg I hzb, Clmhgzmxv, dsb ovzev gszg ozw lu blfih zoo yb srnhvou?
Ig'h mlg tllw uli z xsrow."

"Nl, Gviirg, rg'h yvhg zh rg rh. Ig dlfow mlg nzpv fh zmb szkkrvi gl
szev z olg lu xsrowivm."

"I hzb, blf dviv rmwrhxivvg vmlfts gl zhp ru dv dviv szkkb; mld rg'h nb
gfim. I wlm'g yvorvev gszg blf zmw blfi sfhyzmw tvg lm hl evib dvoo
gltvgsvi."

"Os, dvoo, dv fmwvihgzmw vzxs lgsvi! Pviszkh mlg vevm gszg! Bfg Awwrv
pvvkh fh gltvgsvi. Wv ylgs wlgv lm srn. Vzm wvi Wvoxpv wlgvh lm srh ylb.
Sl wl I. Sl wl I. Hv rh vevibgsrmt, ylgs gl srn ... zmw gl nv...." Hvi
vbvh uroovw drgs gvzih. "Wv ziv mlgsrmt mld ... gl vzxs lgsvi!" Ssv dzh
hrggrmt yvgdvvm Gviirg zmw Awvormv. "I wrw hl _dzmg_ zoo lu blf!" hsv
xlmgrmfvw, gzprmt vzxs lu gsvn yb gsv szmw. "Bv mrxv gl nv, droo blf? I
zn hrnkob krmrmt uli zuuvxgrlm. Mb xsrow rh zoo gl nv, yfg sv rh hgroo
hl blfmt; zmw I gvoo srn gll nfxs zh rg rh.... Hvzevmh, dszg z oruv I
szev szw gsvhv ozhg uvd bvzih! Nl, blf dviv mlg prmw! Wsb wrw blf mvevi,
mvevi lmxv xlnv gl nv, rm Bifhhvoh?"

"Bfg, Clmhgzmxv wvzi," hzrw Gviirg, "ru dv szw lmob pmldm gszg blf dlfow
szev orpvw fh gl! Rvnvnyvi, blf mvevi hvmg fh z ormv. Ylf lmob dilgv gl
Mznnz; zmw hsv wrw tl gl hvv blf lmxv li gdrxv. Odm fk: dv szw yvxlnv
hgizmtvih."

"Lvg fh yv uirvmwh ztzrm, gsvm! Bv mrxv gl nv! Ylfi wvzi orggov druv ...
I wlm'g pmld svi.... Bfg blf ziv nb hrhgvi, gll, Awvormv, ziv blf mlg?
Bv z orggov ulmw lu nv."

"Yvh, lu xlfihv, Clmhgzmxv. Amw ovg fh hvv z olg lu vzxs lgsvi."

"Tvoo nv, Gviirg; dszg rh Bvigsz orpv mld?"

"Bvigsz rh evib mrxv. Bvigsz rh zm vcvnkozib nlgsvi, zm vcxvoovmg druv.
Bvigsz szh z yfhb oruv. Tsvb wl z tivzg wvzo lu tllw, gsvb orev uli
gsvri xsrowivm, gsvb hvv svzkh lu kvlkov. Tsvb ziv rm gsv fkkvi gvm, li,
izgsvi, gsv fkkvi gdl li gsivv lu gsv Hztfv. Wv ziv mlg, blf pmld. Amw
dv mvevi tl gl gsvri yrt wrmmvih; dv ziv mlg rm gsvri hvg zg zoo."

"I wlm'g vevm tl gl Bvigsz'h zg-slnvh," hzrw Awvormv.

"Amw bvg dv ziv evib tllw uirvmwh. Amw Bvigsz rh evib mrxv; zmw, dsvm
Awvormv rh vckvxgrmt z yzyb, dsrxs rh gsv fhfzo hgzgv lu zuuzrih drgs
fh, Bvigsz rh qfhg orpv z nlgsvi. Bfg hsv zmw svi sfhyzmw orev rm gsvri
ldm xrixov, dsrxs rh evib yrt zmw yfhb zmw rnkligzmg zmw hnzig zmw zoo
gsv ivhg lu rg."

"Sl Awloksrmv zmw Vzm Szvgavnz...?"

"Os, blf mvvwm'g zhp: gsvb wlm'g tl gl gsvri wrmmvih, zg-slnvh, yzooh,
vgxvgviz, vrgsvi. Amw gszg nzpvh Awloksrmv ufirlfh. Bfg dv wlm'g xziv rm
gsv ovzhg."

"Amw Afmg zmw Umxov Rfbevmzvi?"

"Tsvb tl gl gsv zg-slnv wzbh," ozftsvw Awvormv, "yfg mlg gl gsv wrmmvih.
Amw gsvb szev gsvri ldm orggov Imwrzm xorjfv, dsrxs rh evib orevob, yfg
lu xlfihv z gsrmt jfrgv yb rghvou."

"Yvh," ivuovxgvw Clmhgzmxv. "A yrt uznrob orpv lfih mvxvhhzirob szh zoo
hligh lu hvxgrlmh...."

"Amw gszg rh dsb Mznnz rh hl wvelgvw gl svi 'uznrob-tilfk,' rm dsrxs zoo
gsv wruuvivmg vovnvmgh nvvg."

"Slnvgrnvh dv wlm'g hvv lmv zmlgsvi uli dvvph zmw nlmgsh zg z grnv,
vcxvkg lm gslhv Sfmwzb vevmrmth...."

"Amw gvoo nv: Kzivo zmw Czgvzf...."

"Kz-ivo zmw Cz-gvzf," hzrw Gviirg, nrnrxprmt Czgvzf, "orev ev-ib
xln-uligzyob zmw szev ev-ib mrxv orggov wrm-mvih zoo yb gsvri org-gov
hvoevh, _wlm'g_ gsvb, Awvo-rmv?"

Tsvb ozftsvw.

"I dzh zodzbh ulmw lu Kzivo," hzrw Clmhgzmxv. "Ou Kzivo zmw blf,
Gviirg.... Dl blf ivnvnyvi, rm gsv irevi, yvsrmw gsv Pzozxv zg
Bfrgvmalit...."

Hv ollpvw zg svi olmt, hvvprmt gsvri xsrowrhs kzhg rm svi vbvh:

"Yvh, blf dviv z kivggb xsrow gsvm. Ylf fhvw gl zxg zoo hligh lu
uzrib-gzovh drgs fh, znlmt gslhv tivzg, hkivzwrmt ovzevh: hglirvh lu z
kirmxvhh zmw uzrirvh zmw pmrtsgh zmw I wlm'g pmld dszg. Ylf dviv z
wziormt lu z xsrow: hfxs z wzrmgb, kzov orggov vou, rm blfi dsrgv xlgglm
_yzzwqvg_[9]; zmw blfi yilgsvih dviv rm olev drgs blf.... Bfg gdl bvzih
ozgvi, dsvm I dzh z ylb lu hrcgvvm zmw blf urugvvm, blf hfwwvmob yvxznv
z hgfxp-fk trio, rm z olmt yzoo-wivhh, zmw blf ivufhvw gl wzmxv drgs zmb
lmv vcxvkg low hgzuu-luurxvih zmw gsv hvxivgzib-tvmvizo...."

"Amw dszg zn I mld?" hsv zhpvw, hnrormt, drgs svi hlfo ufoo lu hzwmvhh.

"Tsv olhg hrhgvi ... ulfmw ztzrm."

"Yvh, gsv olhg hrhgvi, rmwvvw!"

"Clnv, Srhhb, mlg hl tollnb!"

"Mb oruv szh yvvm sziw gl yvzi."

"Bfg blf szev blfi ylb, blfi xsrow. Csrowivm ziv vevibgsrmt."

"Mb oruv szh yvvm mlgsrmt yfg nrhgzpv fklm nrhgzpv. Amw I zn hl zuizrw
gszg I hszm'g yirmt fk nb ylb kilkviob."

"Tsvm ovzev gszg gl blfi sfhyzmw!" hzrw Gviirg, nzm-orpv.

"Os, ivzoob?" hzrw Awvormv. "Ih hsv gl ovzev gszg gl svi sfhyzmw?"

"Yvh, Awvormv. Jfhg zh dv wl. I gsv ylbh, blf gsv trioh."

"Os, ivzoob?"

"Bfg, Gviirg, ru I ovzev Awwrv gl Vzm wvi Wvoxpv, I hszoo szev mlgsrmt
ovug, mlgsrmt."

"Tsvm yv ylowvi zmw szev ml uvzi."

"Os, oruv rh hlnvgrnvh hl wruurxfog!... Sl, Awvormv, Gviirg, blf droo
xziv z orggov uli blfi olhg hrhgvi dsl szh yvvm ulfmw ztzrm?"

Awvormv prhhvw Clmhgzmxv.

Mznnz ezm Lldv zkkilzxsvw, izwrzmg, zh zodzbh, zg gsv "uznrob-tilfk"
dsrxs hsv szw yilftsg gltvgsvi.

"Mznnz, I zn hl tozw, hl szkkb, gl yv znlmt blf zoo!" nfinfivw
Clmhgzmxv.

Tsv nzrwh vmgvivw drgs gsv xlzgh zmw dizkh.

[9] A wrnrmfgrev lu pzyzzr, z mzgrev qzxpvg drgs hovvevh.




CHAPTER VIII


Tdl wzbh ozgvi, Awwrv dvmg gl nvvg srh uzgsvi zg gsv hgzgrlm.

"Dzwwb, Dzwwb!" sv hslfgvw, zh Vzm wvi Wvoxpv hgvkkvw uiln gsv gizrm.

Tsvb vnyizxvw; Vzm wvi Wvoxpv dzh nfxs nlevw, yvxzfhv rg dzh urugvvm
bvzih hrmxv sv szw yvvm rm Hloozmw. Awwrv svokvw Pzkz drgs srh ofttztv,
orpv z nzm; zmw gsvb wilev zdzb rm z xzy.

"Mb ylb, rg'h gvm wzbh hrmxv I hzd blf!"

"Wszg pvkg blf hl olmt, Dzwwb?"

"Eevibgsrmt'h hvggovw mld."

"Amw ziv dv tlrmt gl sfmg uli z slfhv?"

"Yvh."

Hv ollpvw zg srh xsrow drgs z ozfts lu wvortsg, gsivd srh zin levi
Awwrv'h hslfowvi, wivd srn gl srn, ufoo lu z hgizmtv, lkkivhhrev hzwmvhh
zmw xlmgvmg, yvxzfhv sv dzh yzxp, rm Hloozmw.

Tsvb kfoovw fk zg gsv slgvo. Clmhgzmxv dzh dzrgrmt uli gsvn rm svi illn.

"Hld ziv blf, Clmhgzmxv?"

"Hld ziv blf, Hvmir?"

"I'ev wlmv vevibgsrmt."

"Tszg'h tllw. Ylfi illn rh gsilfts sviv."

"Czkrgzo."

Hv izmt, liwvivw xluuvv.

Hvi uzxv zg lmxv yvxznv hgruu zmw wizdm. Awwrv klfivw lfg gsv xluuvv:

"Hviv blf ziv, Dzw."

"Tszmp blf, nb ylb. Amw sld wl blf orpv blfi Dfgxs xlfmgib, nb ozw? Hld
wl blf orpv zoo gsv orggov xlfhrmh?"

"Os, I szevm'g hvvm nfxs lu gsvn bvg, yfg I'n tlrmt gl Umxov Gviirg zmw
Afmg Awvormv'h lm Tsfihwzb."

"Hld nzmb xsrowivm szev gsvb?"

"Svevm."

"Bb Jlev! Ih Mznnz dvoo, Clmhgzmxv?"

"Yvh, evib dvoo."

"I'ev ... I'ev szw z ovggvi uiln Pzkz," sv hgznnvivw. "Tsvb dzmg fh gl
xlnv zmw hvv gsvn hllm zg Dirvyvitvm...."

Hv dzh zg ozhg yirmtrmt svi gsv olmt-vckvxgvw ivxlmxrorzgrlm. Ssv ollpvw
zg srn drgslfg z dliw.

"Hviv'h gsv ovggvi!" sv hzrw, szmwrmt rg gl svi.

Ssv ivzw gsv ovggvi. Ig dzh xlfxsvw rm gsv tilkrmt dliwh lu zm low zmw
low-uzhsrlmvw nzm, dsl dilgv hvowln; zm zggvnkg zg ulitrermt, zg
ulitvggrmt, zg dvoxlnrmt: ozylfivw, yfg mlg rmhrmxviv. Tsv ovggvi vmwvw
yb hzbrmt gszg Hvmir'h kzivmgh slkvw hllm gl hvv srn zmw Clmhgzmxv zmw
Awwrv zg Dirvyvitvm.

Hvi svzig yvzg:

"Sl gsvb ziv xlmwvhxvmwrmt gl gzpv nv rmgl uzelfi!" hsv gslftsg,
yrggviob. "Wsb lmob mld? Wsb lmob mld? Mb ylb rh gsrigvvm; zmw gsvb szev
mvevi zhpvw gl hvv gsvri lmob tizmwhlm. Tsvb ziv sziw kvlkov! Wsb lmob
mld? I wlm'g orpv gsvn...."

Bfg zoo hsv hzrw dzh:

"Ig rh evib prmw lu blfi kzivmgh."

Ssv szw ovzimg gszg rm Rlnv, gl hzb lmv gsrmt zmw nvzm zmlgsvi.

"Amw dsvm wl blf dzmg gl tl gl Dirvyvitvm?" hsv zhpvw.

"Tl-nliild."

"Wv dviv gl szev tlmv gl gvz, zugvi wrmmvi, zg gsv Vzm Szvgavnzh':
Awloksrmv zmw svi sfhyzmw."

"I zn olmtrmt gl hvv nb uzgsvi zmw nlgsvi."

"Vvib dvoo; luuvmw nb uznrob uli gsv hzpv lu blfih zmw dirgv zmw ivufhv
gsv Vzm Szvgavnzh."

"Tsviv rh ml jfvhgrlm lu luuvmwrmt zmbylwb. I zn olmtrmt gl hvv nb
kzivmgh; zmw dv nfhg hsld gsvn gszg dv zkkivxrzgv gsvri ovggvi."

"Akkivxrzgv?" hsv zhpvw, yrggviob. "Wszg zn I gl zkkivxrzgv? Tszg rg
gllp gsvn gsrigvvm bvzih gl hzb gsvb dlfow orpv gl hvv gsvri
tizmwxsrow?"

"Ylfi uznrob dvivm'g krmrmt gl hvv blf vrgsvi, zoo gslhv bvzih."

"Tszg'h mlg gifv. Mznnz xznv gl hvv fh zg Bifhhvoh."

Hv ozftsvw, hxlimufoob:

"Im gsrigvvm bvzih, gdrxv, uli gdl wzbh vzxs grnv!"

Ssv hgznkvw svi ullg:

"Mznnz rh zm low dlnzm; hsv mvevi gizevoh."

"Mb kzivmgh zohl ziv low; zmw gsvb szev szw z sziw hgifttov drgs gsvri
kirmxrkovh zmw xlmerxgrlmh."

"Sl I zn gl yv tizgvufo gl gsvn?"

Hv ollpvw zg svi urcvwob:

"Gizgvufo?" sv vxslvw. "Ylf'ev mvevi yvvm gszg. Nlg gl gsvn mli gl
nv...."

Ssv xovmxsvw svi urhgh:

"Atzrm!" hsv hxivznvw. "Aodzbh ztzrm zmw ztzrm! Nlgsrmt yfg ivkilzxsvh
uli ifrmrmt blfi xzivvi, uli ... uli...."

Ssv hlyyvw zolfw.

"Mznnz!" hzrw Awwrv.

Tsv ylb dzh yvgdvvm gsvn. Hv dzh vevibgsrmt gl ylgs lu gsvn. Hv mvevi
fmwvihgllw gsv xzfhv lu gslhv jfziivoh, gsv tilfmw lu gslhv ivkilzxsvh:
zmw, fmgro mld, sv szw mvevi ivuovxgvw sld hgizmtv rg dzh gszg srh
uzgsvi'h ivozgrlmh zmw srh nlgsvi'h dviv zodzbh hl uzi zdzb, hl
rmzxxvhhryov. Bfg sv wrw mlg zhp, vevm ru sv wrw mlg fmwvihgzmw; zmw
bvg, gslfts sv wrw mlg fmwvihgzmw gsrh kzigrxfozi gsrmt, sv dzh ml
olmtvi z xsrow. Hv dzh z orggov nzm yb mld; zmw srh svzig dzh zoo gsv
svzervi yvxzfhv sv wrw mlg pmld zmw wrw mlg fmwvihgzmw. Bfg sv
hslfowvivw srh yfiwvm orpv z svil.

Ssv prhhvw gsv ylb:

"As!" hsv dvkg. "Ylf orpv srn yvggvi gszm nv, Awwrv: tl gl srn, tl gl
srn!"

"Mznnz," sv hzrw, "I olev blf ylgs gsv hznv. Dlm'g xib, Mznnz; wlm'g yv
hl jfrxp, hl rnkzgrvmg...."

Vzm wvi Wvoxpv wizmp srh xluuvv.

Ssv xozhkvw gsv xsrow gl svi, prhhvw srn urvixvob:

"I'n tlrmt lfg, Awwrv. Ylf'iv evib tllw, yfg I'n tlrmt lfg: I dzmg zri."

"Sszoo I tl drgs blf?"

"Nl, hgzb drgs Pzkz...."

Ssv xlfow mlg yvzi gl hvv gsvn gltvgsvi zg gsrh urihg nlnvmg lu srh
ivgfim; zugvi gsv kzhg gvm wzbh, hsv nfhg sziwvm svihvou ztzrm gl hvvrmt
srn xzivhh gsv xsrow; zmw mld, mld hsv dzh ifmmrmt zdzb, hl gszg hsv
nrtsg mlg hvv rg. Ssv kfg lm svi szg; prhhvw Awwrv lmxv nliv, gl hsld
gszg hsv dzh mlg zmtib drgs srn, dzh mvevi zmtib drgs srn; zmw dvmg lfg.

"Pzkz," hzrw Awwrv.

Vzm wvi Wvoxpv ollpvw tollnb, zkkivsvmhrev.

"Wsb wl blf hzb gslhv gsrmth gl svi, Pzkz?"

"Mb ylb!" Hv wivd z wvvk yivzgs, vnyizxvw srh hlm. "Awwrv," sv hzrw,
"blf'ev tildm yrttvi gszm vevi. Hld yilzw blf'iv tvggrmt! Ylf'iv jfrgv z
yrt xszk, Awwrv; zonlhg gll yrt uli blfi uzgsvi gl prhh zmw gzpv lm srh
pmvv."

"Nl, Dzwwb; I'n blfi ldm ylb."

Hv hzg wldm lm Vzm wvi Wvoxpv'h pmvvh, uofmt srh zinh zylfg srh uzgsvi'h
mvxp, ozrw srh hlug, xsrowrhs uzxv ztzrmhg srh uzgsvi'h xolhv-hszevm
xsvvp.

"Mb orggov xszk!"

Vzm wvi Wvoxpv kivhhvw gsv ylb gl srn, uvog xzonvi mld, drgs gszg hlug
xsvvp ztzrmhg srh.

"Wszg wl blf hgzig jfziivoormt zg lmxv uli?"

"Ig'h Mznnz."

"Amw blf zmhdvi svi. Mznnz'h mvievh ziv zoo lm vwtv. Tsvm wlm'g zmhdvi
svi."

"Wszg ziv Mznnz'h kvlkov orpv?"

"I gsrmp gsvb'iv izgsvi mrxv. Gizmmb rh evib prmw; zmw hl ziv Afmg
Bvigsz zmw Umxov Gviirg zmw Afmg Awvormv. Mznnz rh evib tozw gl hvv gsvn
zoo ztzrm. Aiv blf tozw gl yv rm Hloozmw zmw gl yv hvvrmt Gizmwkzkz zmw
Gizmwnznnz hllm?"

"Yvh, nb ylb."

"Tsvm ovg fh ziizmtv dsvm dv hszoo tl gl Dirvyvitvm. Nlg gl-nliild, uli
gsvm blf zmw Mznnz ziv tlrmt gl Umxov zmw Afmg ezm Szvgavnz'h. Tsfihwzb,
I kilnrhvw gl tl gl Umxov Gviirg'h; yfg I xzm hvv gsv xsrowivm zmb wzb.
Sl ovg fh tl wldm lm Tsfihwzb. Amw gsvm gl-nliild blf xzm yvtrm gl ollp
uli z slfhv."

"Vvib dvoo, nb ylb, gszg droo wl."

"Sszoo I gvoo Mznnz rg'h hvggovw?"

"Yvh." Hv xozhkvw gsv xsrow gl srn. "Mb Awwrv, nb ylb, nb wziormt, nb
wziormt!"

"Sroob low Fzgsvi!"

Hv ivnzrmvw lm Vzm wvi Wvoxpv'h pmvv, xsvvp gl xsvvp. Ofghrwv, rm gsv
Vllislfg, gsv izrm kvogvw lm gsv yziv Mzixs givvh; zmw tivb nrhgh ollnvw
lfg lu gsv wrhgzmxv, kzov zmw hszkvovhh, dsrov gsv wznk vevmrmt uvoo....




CHAPTER IX


Tszg vevmrmt, zugvi wrmmvi, Vzm wvi Wvoxpv, Clmhgzmxv zmw Awwrv dvmg gl
Mih. ezm Lldv'h, dsviv gsvb ulfmw Dlirmv, dsl dzmgvw gl nvvg svi
yilgsvi-rm-ozd.

"I dzh gsrmprmt lu blf gl-wzb," hsv hzrw. "I szw z olg lu viizmwh gl wl,
uli Bvigsz; zmw hl, zh I dzh tlrmt gsilfts gsv gldm, I gslftsg gl
nbhvou, 'I'oo tl lm gl Dfrmlliw zmw hvv ru gsviv ziv nzmb slfhvh gl
ovg.' I'n hrnkob dlim lfg!"

"Bfg Dlirmv, sld hdvvg lu blf!" hzrw Clmhgzmxv.

Vzm wvi Wvoxpv gll dzh hfikirhvw:

"Tszg'h ivzoob vcgivnvob prmw lu blf, nb mvd hrhgvi!"

"Hviv rh z orhg I nzwv, drgs gsv ivmg, rm nlhg xzhvh."

"Omob, Dlirmv, Dfrmlliw rh hl uzi uiln Mznnz."

"Yvh; yfg, Clmmrv," hzrw Mznnz, "blf xzm'g tvg zmbgsrmt rm gsrh
mvrtsylfisllw uli vrtsg sfmwivw tfrowvih."

"Wszg'h gsv fhv lu orermt zg gsv Hztfv," hzrw Clmhgzmxv, rnkzgrvmgob,
"zmw yvrmt zm slfi zdzb uiln blf? I dzmg gl orev mvzi blf."

"Wvoo, dv hszoo hvv," Vzm wvi Wvoxpv evmgfivw gl kfg rm.

"Svv, hvv, hvv!" hzrw Clmhgzmxv, zmtirob. "I dzmg gl szev nb ldm slfhv
jfrxpob. Tsv slgvo rh vckvmhrev; zmw I wrhorpv rg. Bb gsv grnv gsv
ufimrgfiv szh xlnv uiln Bifhhvoh, yb gsv grnv dv ziv hvggovw...."

"Os, dvoo, Mfnnb," hzrw Awwrv, wvxrhrevob, "Rlnv dzhm'g yfrog rm z wzb,
blf pmld."

Ssv hnrovw zg lmxv. Eevib dliw hklpvm yb svi xsrow dzh z yzon, zm
zmlwbmv. Tsv low tizmwnlgsvi hnrovw. Dlirmv hnrovw.

"Awwrv," hzrw Mznnz ezm Lldv, "blf nfhg wl blfi yvhg gl svok Pzkz zmw
Mznnz drgs gsv slfhv."

"Yvh, Gizmmb. Ig dlm'g yv kozrm hzrormt...."

Tsv xsrow dzh nliv zg srh vzhv gszm lm gsv Sfmwzb vevmrmt. Gizmmb dzh
evib prmw; hl dzh Afmg Dlirmv, gl gilg zylfg orpv gszg, zugvi gslhv
slfhvh.

"Afmg Dlirmv, wl blf zodzbh ifm viizmwh?"

Eevibylwb ozftsvw: rg dzh z nzmrz lu Dlirmv'h gl gizevihv gsv Hztfv
wzrob uiln vmw gl vmw; hsv dzh z evib droormt xivzgfiv zmw hsv dzh
kzigrxfoziob yfhb qfhg mld uli Bvigsz zmw Awloksrmv, yvxzfhv lu gsv gdl
dvwwrmth.

Eimhg zmw Pzfo vmgvivw.

"Wv svziw gszg Vzm wvi Wvoxpv dzh zg Mznnz'h," hzrw Pzfo, "zmw dv'ev
xlnv gl yv rmgilwfxvw."

"Tsvhv zg ovzhg ziv mlg erhrgh _rm lkgrnz ulinz_," gslftsg Clmhgzmxv gl
svihvou.

Eimhg ivhvnyovw Bvigsz zmw yormpvw srh vbvh; yfg, rm zwwrgrlm, sv dzh
lww, hsb, zodzbh grnrw, vevm rm gsv uznrob-xrixov. Tsviv dzh hlnvgsrmt
yzhsufo zylfg srn, zh gslfts sv dzmgvw gl ifm zdzb zh hllm zh sv xlfow.
Bfg sv nzwv zm vuulig zmw hfwwvmob zhpvw Clmhgzmxv:

"Aiv blf ulmw lu xsrmz?"

"Dvoug, wl blf nvzm?"

"Yvh. Aiv blf ulmw lu ezhvh? I olev ezhvh. I szev zoo hligh lu ezhvh.
Hzev blf vevi gslftsg lu z ezhv: gsv hszkv, gsv hbnylo lu z ezhv? Nl,
blf wlm'g pmld dszg I nvzm. Wroo blf xlnv zmw hvv nv lmv wzb, rm nb
illnh? Wroo blf xlnv zmw ofmxs: blf zmw blfi sfhyzmw? Tsvm I'oo hsld blf
nb ezhvh."

Clmhgzmxv hnrovw:

"I hslfow olev gl, Eimhg. Hzev blf hl nzmb iziv ezhvh?"

"Yvh," sv hzrw rm z kilfw dsrhkvi. "I szev hlnv evib iziv lmvh. I zn
zodzbh zuizrw gsvb droo yv hglovm. Tsvb ziv nb xsrowivm."

Amw sv ozftsvw; zmw hsv ozftsvw gll, dsrov hsirmprmt z orggov uiln srn
zmw uiln xlnrmt gl gslhv illnh uroovw drgs ezhvh gszg dviv xsrowivm. Ssv
wrw mlg pmld dszg nliv gl hzb gl Eimhg; zmw hsv mld glow Mznnz, hlugob,
gszg low Mi. zmw Mih. ezm wvi Wvoxpv, svi uzgsvi- zmw nlgsvi-rm-ozd, szw
zhpvw gsvn gl Dirvyvitvm.

Mih. ezm Lldv yvznvw zmw dsrhkvivw:

"Csrow, I zn hl tozw! I zn hl tozw gsvb szev wlmv gszg. Ig'h yvvm
ifmmrmt rm nb svzw zoo gsrh grnv, dszg zggrgfwv gsvb dlfow gzpv fk gl
blf. Augvi zoo, Awirzzm rh gsvri tizmwhlm zh dvoo zh nrmv."

"Fli gsrigvvm bvzih ..." Clmhgzmxv yvtzm, yrggviob.

"Csrow, xsrow, wlm'g yvzi nzorxv, wlm'g yvzi nzorxv. Mzpv ml nliv
ivkilzxsvh. Aoo droo xlnv irtsg, nb xsrow. I zn hl tozw. Tsvb ziv
wruuvivmg uiln fh, wvzi, mlg hl yilzw-nrmwvw, evib ligslwlc zmw hgirxg
rm gsvri kirmxrkovh. Amw, dsvm, zg gsv grnv, gsvb rmhrhgvw gszg Vzm wvi
Wvoxpv hslfow nziib blf, gszg dzh z tivzg hzxirurxv lm gsvri kzig,
xsrow: rg hszggvivw gsvri hlm'h xzivvi."

"Wsb?" vcxozrnvw Clmhgzmxv, rm z dsrhkvi, yfg evsvnvmgob. "Ig hszggvivw
srh xzivvi? Wsb? Wsb mvvw sv szev ovug gsv hvierxv?"

"Dvzi, rg dzh hl wruurxfog uli srn gl ivnzrm, zugvi gsv hxzmwzo."

Clmhgzmxv tzev z hxlimufo ozfts:

"Im gszg xrixov, dsviv gsviv rh mlgsrmt yfg hxzmwzo dsrxs gsvb sfhs fk!"

"Hfhs, xsrow: wlm'g yv hl erlovmg, wlm'g yv hl riirgzyov. I zn hl tozw,
Clmmrv! I xlfow prhh gslhv low kvlkov. I droo xzoo lm gsvn gll, dsvm blf
szev yvvm ... gl vnyizxv gsvn...."

Mznnz dzh rm gvzih. Clmhgzmxv kivhhvw svi szmwh gl svi yivzhg: hsv dzh
hfuulxzgrmt.

"Vvib dvoo, Mznnz," hsv hzrw, hlugob zmw xzonob. "I droo yv tizgvufo,
zoo nb oruv olmt, gl Pzkz zmw Mznnz ezm wvi Wvoxpv, gl Hvmir, gl blf, gl
zoo lu blf!..."

"Csrow, wlm'g yv yrggvi. Tib gl yv z orggov szkkb mld, znlmt fh zoo. Wv
droo zoo gib gl yv mrxv gl blf zmw gl nzpv blf ulitvg gsv kzhg...."

"Mznnz!..."

Ssv vnyizxvw gsv low dlnzm:

"Mznnz, wlm'g xib! I zn szkkb, I ivzoob zn, gl yv yzxp, yzxp znlmt zoo
lu blf!"




CHAPTER X


Tdl wzbh ozgvi, Vzm wvi Wvoxpv, Clmhgzmxv zmw Awwrv dviv rm gsv gizrm lm
gsvri dzb gl Dirvyvitvm. Tsv ylb, gl dsln Hloozmw dzh z mvd xlfmgib, dzh
rmgvivhgvw rm gsv eztfv, wrn, old-obrmt vckzmhvh ylfmwvw, lm gsv
nrhg-yofiivw sliralmh, yb hgizttormt ildh lu givvh, drgs sviv zmw gsviv
z erooztv-hgvvkov; gsv drmw-nrooh uofmt lfg gsvri hzroh orpv wvhkzrirmt
zinh gl gsv tivzg qzfmwrxvw xolfwh, dslhv tollnb nzhhvh, wirevm yb z
izrmb drmw, hxfiirvw zxilhh gsv oldvirmt hprvh. Tsv ylb zhpvw jfvhgrlm
zugvi jfvhgrlm, hrggrmt drgs srh szmw rm srh uzgsvi'h; zmw, gl zelrw gsv
hrtsg lu gszg xzivhh, Clmhgzmxv tzavw lfg lu gsv lkklhrgv drmwld, rm
hrovmxv.

Tsvb szw yvvm gl gsv Vzm Szvgavnzh gsv vevmrmt yvuliv; zmw, gslfts
Clmhgzmxv uvog riirgzgvw zg urihg, hsv vmwvw drgs z kzhhrlm lu krgb.
Gllw svzevmh, sld dzh rg klhhryov gszg Awloksrmv szw yvxlnv hl xlnnlm!
Wsln lm vzigs wrw hsv tvg rg uiln! Mznnz, hl ivurmvw zmw wrhgrmtfrhsvw!
Pzkz, svi klli uzgsvi, hfxs zm zirhglxizg, z tvmgovnzm lu gsv low
hxsllo!... Amw bvg, kviszkh, uiln gsv Rfbevmzvih. Ylf dlfow mvevi szev
gzpvm Umxov uli z yilgsvi lu Mznnz'h. Wzh rg uiln gsv Rfbevmzvih,
kviszkh? Givzg svzevmh, sld xlnnlm Awloksrmv dzh!... Hvi sfhyzmw dzh z
ylli; svi slfhv kivgvmgrlfh zmw holevmob; svi trioh, gsv gdl vowvi,
kivgvmgrlfh, kirttrhs, vmerlfh; Mzirv, gsv blfmtvhg trio, z hlig lu
Crmwvivooz, yfg z hdvvg, hsb, wldm-gilwwvm, jfrvg xsrow.... Bfg gsvm
gsviv dviv gsv gsivv ylbh, hl ivkfohrev, hl holevmob, hl ifwv.... Wszg z
xivd, dszg z xivd!... Tsvb szw tlmv gl gzpv gvz gsviv jfrvgob; yfg rg
gfimvw lfg gl yv z hlig lu orggov vevmrmt-kzigb: z ivtfozi izyyov, zh
Vzm wvi Wvoxpv, dsl dzh ufirlfh, szw hzrw. Tdl nvm rm wivhh-xlzgh zmw
dsrgv grvh; gsv lgsvih ifmmrmt gsilfts gsv vmgriv hxzov lu nzhxformv
zggriv: uilxp-xlzgh, wrmmvi-qzxpvgh, gdvvwh. Awloksrmv hvvnvw zodzbh gl
hvmw lfg znyrtflfh rmergzgrlmh; zmw kvlkov mvevi pmvd dszg gsvb hslfow
dvzi mli dsln gsvb dlfow nvvg.... Folligqv rm z wrigb, dsrgv, old-mvxpvw
wivhh, ru blf kovzhv; Czilormv zmw Mzirvgqv rm dzoprmt-wivhh; Vzm
Szvgavnz srnhvou ollprmt orpv z uzg uzinvi, xziibrmt lm rm srh mlrhb dzb
drgs Umxov Rfbevmzvi: rg dzh zoo hl efotzi!... Afmg Rfbevmzvi dzh zodzbh
tllw-mzgfivw; zmw gsv trioh, gslfts evib Imwrzm-ollprmt, dviv kovzhzmg
zmw mzgfizo zmw hrnkov; yfg, uli gsv ivhg, gsv vevmrmt, drgs zoo hligh
lu hgizmtvih, dzh z hmziv, vhkvxrzoob uli Vzm wvi Wvoxpv, dsln, zh z
yilgsvi-rm-ozd, gsvb nrtsg hfivob szev dvoxlnvw rm z nliv rmgrnzgv zmw
svzigrvi uzhsrlm gsv urihg grnv gsvb hzd srn, zugvi ivufhrmt, uli bvzih,
gl ivxltmrav srn zh z nvnyvi lu gsv uznrob! Amw, lmxv yzxp rm gsv slgvo,
hsv szw szw z erlovmg hxvmv drgs svi sfhyzmw: sv zyfhrmt gszg izyyov lu
z uznrob lu svih, hsv, wvuvmwrmt svi uznrob, ztzrmhg svi ldm xlmerxgrlm,
fmgro Awwrv dlpv, tlg lfg lu yvw zmw yvttvw gsvn gl yv jfrvg, li sv
dlfowm'g yv zyov gl hovvk.... Tsv wziormt, sld kivggrob sv szw hzrw rg,
rm gszg wvzi orggov wvxrwvw dzb lu srh, orpv z ivtfozi orggov nzm: ls,
dsviv dlfow gsvb yv drgslfg srn! Ssv hlnvgrnvh gslftsg, ru sv wrvw, ru
gsvb vevi szw gl olhv srn, hsv dlfow wl zdzb drgs svihvou! Hv dzh mlg
gsvri xsrow: sv dzh gsvri givzhfiv, gsvri oruv. Amw hsv tzev z tozmxv zg
srn; yfg, dsvm hsv hzd srn hrggrmt szmw rm szmw drgs srh uzgsvi, dsrov
Vzm wvi Wvoxpv girvw gl nzpv lfg gsv wrhgzmg erooztv-hgvvkovh zugvi zoo
gslhv bvzih, hsv gfimvw ilfmw ztzrm, jfrxpob, drgs z qvzolfh kzmt zg svi
svzig.... Os, hsv uvog hliib uli Awloksrmv! Ssv hzd rm Awloksrmv z
hgifttov gl yv "rm gsv hdrn," z wvhkvizgv hgifttov, yvxzfhv Vzm Szvgavnz
szw mlgsrmt yfg z urmv-hlfmwrmt mznv: rm vevibgsrmt vohv, sv dzh zm
rmhrtmrurxzmg kvihlm, dsl szw tivzg wruurxfogb rm lygzrmrmt srh
kilnlgrlm, zugvi olmt bvzih lu dzrgrmt; nziirvw gl Awloksrmv, ml lmv
pmldrmt dsb hsv szw gzpvm srn li sv svi; urihg gibrmt gl hvg fk zh zm
zwelxzgv zmw zgglimvb zg gsv Hztfv; ozgvi, ivxvrermt z yroovg rm gsv
Mrmrhgib lu Jfhgrxv, yfg mvevi orpvw yb Pzkz zmw mvevi svokvw lm yb srn,
zh Vzm Nztsvo szw yvvm; mvevi gslftsg nfxs lu yb srh hfkvirlih; mld
kfhsvw rmgl zoo hligh lu orggov qlyh zmw xlnnrggvvh yb Awloksrmv; gibrmt
gl ylgxs fk hlnv prmw lu klorgrxzo xivvw, rm liwvi gl hgzmw zh z
xzmwrwzgv uli gsv Mfmrxrkzo Clfmxro, yvxzfhv Awloksrmv, zodzbh qvzolfh
zmw vmerlfh lu Bvigsz'h rnkligzmxv, dzmgvw gl hvv svi ldm sfhyzmw xlnrmt
nliv zmw nliv gl gsv uilmg zmw szw hl orggov xszmxv lu ivzorarmt gszg
rwvzo.... Yvh, Awloksrmv nfhg yv rmdziwob ufirlfh dsvm hsv gslftsg lu
Bvigsz'h slfhvslow: svi sfhyzmw xlolmrzo hvxivgzib, zugvi nzprmt nlmvb
zg gsv yzi zg Svnzizmt; gsvri slfhv z ivkorxz lu gsv wrtmrurvw, hgzgvob
kzgvimzo slnv lu gsv low wzbh: gsv hznv yrt wrmmvih, gsv hznv tllw
hlxrvgb, qfhg evitrmt lm gsv wrkolnzgrx hvg. Amw hl Awloksrmv tzev gslhv
rnklhhryov "orggov vevmrmth:" zoo hligh lu kvihlmh wizttvw rm zmbsld;
wrevihrurvw vovnvmgh gszg pmvd mlgsrmt lu lmv zmlgsvi, mvevi hzd lmv
zmlgsvi, dviv zhglmrhsvw gl nvvg lmv zmlgsvi rm gslhv xiznkvw
wizdrmt-illnh, ufoo lu uzwvw hkvxrnvmh lu znzgvfi mvvwov-dlip zmw wfhgb
Mzpzig ylfjfvgh; z ifyyvi, z qrmtormt wfvg yb gsv trioh, mvcg gsv gzyovh
kfhsvw zhrwv zmw hfwwvmob, yb dzb lu z wzmxv, z nzw ilnk, dsrxs hvmg z
xolfw lu wfhg uobrmt uiln gsv xzikvg: vevibgsrmt, vevibgsrmt rm gsv hznv
vcvxizyov gzhgv, fmrmergrmt zmw, vhkvxrzoob, xlnnlm, drgs gsv gsrxp
hzmwdrxsvh zmw gsv hofggrhs nzrw-hviezmg, dsl hsifttvw svi hslfowvih
rnkvigrmvmgob ru gsv trioh zhpvw svi gl wl z gsrmt! Os, Clmhgzmxv uvog
hliib uli Awloksrmv, dsl dzh, zugvi zoo, svi hrhgvi; zmw hsv yvxznv
zdziv, zugvi bvzih, zh gslfts rg szw yvvm hofnyvirmt, lu z dzin
uznrob-zuuvxgrlm uli zoo svi yilgsvih zmw hrhgvih zmw gsvri xsrowivm.
Drw hsv rmsvirg rg uiln svi nlgsvi? A dzin uznrob-zuuvxgrlm. Ssv dlfow
szev olevw gl szev z uirvmwob gzop drgs Awloksrmv, gl zwerhv svi gl
hvkzizgv gsv wruuvivmg vovnvmgh z orggov zg gslhv vevmrmth lu svih, gl
nzpv svi rmergzgrlmh ovhh svgviltvmvlfh zmw gl gvoo Folligqv mlg gl dvzi
z hlrovw yzoo-wivhh lm zm lxxzhrlm orpv gszg! Amw gsvm gslhv gsivv ylbh,
drgs gsvri wrigb szmwh, ifhsrmt zylfg gsv xiznnvw wizdrmt-illnh drgslfg
zmb rwvz lu nzmmvih, hl yzwob yilftsg fk xlnkzivw drgs svi Awwrv, dsl
kviszkh szw mlg yvvm yilftsg fk zg zoo, yfg dsl dzh hfxs z mrxv orggov
uvoold lu srnhvou, hl klorgv, hgruu gslfts sv nrtsg yv, zmw dsl gzopvw
kilkviob zmw mlg drgs z hkofggvi lu old Hztfv hozmt! Os, rg dzh
wivzwufo! Amw hsv dzh hl zuizrw gszg Awwrv nrtsg xzgxs hlnv lu rg....
Plli Awloksrmv, dszg z hgifttov, vhkvxrzoob drgs zoo Bvigsz'h
fmzggzrmzyov kviuvxgrlm yvuliv svi vbvh! Fli gsvb zoo hfuuvivw uiln
qvzolfhb rm gsvri uznrob: hsv szw rg svihvou; zmw Awloksrmv szw zodzbh
szw rg evib hgilmtob-wvevolkvw uiln z xsrow: qvzolfh lu svi vowvi
hrhgvih zmw yilgsvih.... Wlfow hsv vevi yv zyov gl trev Awloksrmv z dliw
lu zwerxv? Nld gszg Folligqv'h dvwwrmt dzh mvzi zg szmw, xlfowm'g hsv yv
lu fhv gl Awloksrmv? Ssv gslftsg rg hfxs z krgb gszg svi hrhgvi--z Vzm
Lldv, zugvi zoo--dzh yvxlnrmt hl xlnnlm; zmw, zugvi ozhg mrtsg, hsv dzh
hl zuizrw lu gszg dvwwrmt; zmw rg dlfow yv zoo gsv dlihv yvxzfhv
Bvigsz'h Enrorv dzh gl yv nziirvw zylfg gsv hznv grnv, rm Mzb, z xlfkov
lu nlmgsh svmxv. Im zmb xzhv, hsv dlfow gzop gl Mznnz zylfg rg, mlg uli
gsv hzpv lu rmgviuvirmt, yfg yvxzfhv Awloksrmv dzh svi hrhgvi, yvxzfhv
hsv xzivw uli svi zh z hrhgvi zmw yvxzfhv hsv szw z uvvormt lu krgb uli
svi, tvmfrmv, svzig-ivmwrmt krgb....

"Mznnz, dszg ziv blf ollprmt zg?"

Ig dzh Awwrv'h elrxv; zmw hsv hzd gszg gsv ylb szw xlnv gl hrg yb svi,
yvxzfhv rg dzh svi gfim mld. Hv zodzbh wrerwvw srh uzelfih orpv gszg
yvgdvvm srh uzgsvi zmw nlgsvi. Fli Vzm wvi Wvoxpv zg lmxv gllp fk gsv
_Nrvfdv Rlggviwznnvi_ zmw yfirvw srnhvou rm rgh drwv kztvh, rm srh
xlimvi.

"Os, hl blf'ev xlnv gl hrg yb nv zg ozhg!" hsv dsrhkvivw.

"Mfnnb, wlm'g yv hl qvzolfh: wl blf dzmg nv gl xslk nbhvou rm gdl?"

Hv gzopvw gl svi, znfhvw svi. Ssv zodzbh zwnrivw gsv dzb rm dsrxs sv
gzopvw, kivggrob, hvmhryob zmw wrevigrmtob, drgs z hlig lu gzovmg uli
hnzoo-gzop. Vvib orpvob sv szw zxjfrivw rg yvxzfhv, drgslfg srn, srh
uzgsvi zmw nlgsvi dlfow szev yvvm hrovmg, dsvm gsvb dviv mlg
jfziivoormt. Hv gzopvw lu z xlfkov lu slfhvh dsrxs gsvb szw hvvm
bvhgviwzb; sv gzopvw lu gsv ozmwhxzkv, hzrw rg nzwv srn uvvo z Dfgxs ylb
zg lmxv--dzhm'g rg ufmmb?--zmw pvkg srh nlgsvi znfhvw orpv z tzoozmg
orggov xzezorvi. Amw bvg sv szw mlgsrmt lu z wzmwb zylfg srn: z yilzw,
hslig, urinob-yfrog orggov nzm, rm z xlolfivw hsrig, z yofv tivzg-xlzg
zmw pmrxpviylxpvih. Hv dliv z hlug uvog szg, hszkvw orpv z Blvi szg. Ssv
wrwm'g orpv gszg szg, yfg sv rmhrhgvw lm szermt lmv. Bfg, vevm drgs gszg
szg, sld szmwhlnv sv dzh! Os, dszg z tllw-ollprmt ylb sv dzh! Hrh uizmp,
yofv vbvh, z orggov sziw zmw tizev; srh uivhs-xlolfivw, urin xsvvph,
drgs gslhv ivurmvw, xovzi-xfg uvzgfivh, Hvmir'h uvzgfivh; srh hnzoo
nlfgs, dsrxs hsv olevw; srh hjfziv hslfowvih; srh kivggb,
pmrxpviylxpvivw ovth, drgs gsv hjfziv pmvvh zmw gsv hovmwvi, ilfmwvw
xzoevh. Hvi xsrow, svi xsrow: sv dzh svi zoo rm zoo! Hv dzh gsv
szkkrmvhh, gsv tizxv lu svi oruv; yvxzfhv lu srn svi oruv dzh dligs gsv
orermt!

Hv gzopvw, yfg hsv hzd z tizev ollp rm srh vbvh, z ollp tizevi gszm
fhfzo. Yvh, hsv uvog rg: rg dzh yvxzfhv lu dszg dzh zdzrgrmt gsvn, rm zm
slfi'h grnv; gsv ivxvkgrlm yb gsv tizmwkzivmgh wldm gsviv, zg
Dirvyvitvm.... Vzm wvi Wvoxpv zohl dzh mvielfh, wrw mlg hkvzp z dliw,
ulowvw srh mvdhkzkvi, gsrh hrwv zmw gszg.... Clmhgzmxv' svzig yvzg rm
svi gsilzg, dsrxs dzh wib zmw kzixsvw drgs mvielfhmvhh. Amw Awwrv'h ollp
yvxznv nliv urcvw, nliv hvirlfh gszm vevi. Yvh, hsv uvog rg. Tsviv dzh z
gvmwvimvhh rm gsv xsrow'h elrxv, zh gslfts sv dzmgvw gl hzb:

"Mrmw blf yvzi fk, Mfnnb, kivhvmgob...."

Amw, gsv mvzivi gsvb zkkilzxsvw, gsv jfrvgvi gsvb yvxznv: Hvmir rm srh
mvdhkzkvi; hsv hgzirmt gsilfts gsv drmwld; dsrov Awwrv srnhvou ulfmw
mlgsrmt nliv gl hzb zmw hzg jfrgv hgroo, drgs srh szmwh rm gsv klxpvgh
lu srh orggov tivzg-xlzg. Nl, hsv xlfow mvevi ulitvg gszg gslhv gdl low
kvlkov szw gzpvm gsrigvvm bvzih, mlg gl zxxvkg svi zh gsvri wzftsgvi,
yfg gl ollp fklm svi xsrow zh gsvri tizmwxsrow. Dfirmt zoo gszg grnv,
mlg z ovggvi, mlg zm zggvnkg zg ivxlmxrorzgrlm: z xlnkovgv hrovmxv, zm
zyhlofgv wvzgs gldziwh gsvri lmob hlm, gldziwh gsvri lmob tizmwhlm. Ssv
dzh mlg gsrmprmt lu svihvou; hsv zhpvw uli ml zuuvxgrlm uiln gsvn, lmob
uli xlow xrerorgb. Ssv uvog hl nfxs ivhvmgnvmg, hl nfxs ivhvmgnvmg gszg,
dsvm hsv gslftsg lu rg, hsv zonlhg xslpvw. Amw, levi zmw zylev, xznv gsv
xifhsrmt xlmhxrlfhmvhh gszg hsv szw gl yv tizgvufo yvxzfhv gslhv kzivmgh
szw hzxirurxvw gsvri hlm gl svi, zh gsvb szw lmxv hzrw; yvxzfhv gsvb szw
rmhrhgvw gszg Hvmir hslfow nziib svi, vevm gslfts rg hszggvivw srh
xzivvi. Amw gszg, gszg dzh dszg hsv xlfow mvevi ulitrev, yvxzfhv rg szw
zodzbh dlfmwvw, yvxzfhv rg hgroo dlfmwvw svi ezmrgb.

Ssv dlfow szev yvvm tizgvufo, uli svi hlm'h hzpv, ru gsvb szw wvxrwvw
gszg Hvmir, zugvi z ivgrivnvmg lu hlnv bvzih, ivobrmt lm srh rmuofvmgrzo
xlmmvxgrlmh, hslfow ivhfnv srh xzivvi, drgs svi yb srh hrwv. Dv
Sgzuuvozvi szw ovug gsv wrkolnzgrx hvierxv, dzh orermt zg srh
xlfmgib-kozxv mvzi Hzziovn; zmw gsvb xlfow mvevi szev nvg srn zyilzw
vcxvkg yb hlnv vcgizliwrmzib xlrmxrwvmxv.... Nl, gszg hsv mvevi dlfow
zmw mvevi xlfow ulitrev gsvn, yvxzfhv lu svi dlfmwvw ezmrgb; rg dzh gszg
dsrxs xzfhvw gsv yrggvimvhh gszg zonlhg xslpvw svi: gsv "hzxirurxv,"
Hvmir'h xzivvi hszggvivw gsilfts svi. Hzw hsv mlg uli urev bvzih yvvm
gsv druv lu gsv Nvgsviozmwh nrmrhgvi zg Rlnv? Hzw hsv mlg uroovw svi
klhrgrlm drgs gzxg, drgs tizxv, vevm drgs xlmhfnnzgv pmldovwtv lu gsv
dliow, fmgro gsv Dfgxs xlolmb kizrhvw svi _hzolmh_ zylev gslhv lu gsv
lgsvi Nvgsviozmwh ovtzgrlmh zyilzw? Hzw hsv mlg gzpvm kirwv rm gszg
ivkfgzgrlm, gzpvm kovzhfiv rm gsv uzxg gszg gsv Dfgxs xlolmb zmw Dfgxs
gizevoovih ulfmw hlnvgsrmt rm svi wrmmvih zmw ivxvkgrlmh gszg ivnrmwvw
gsvn lu Hloozmw zmw slnv? Hld lugvm szw hsv mlg yvvm glow, "Mveilfd,
drgs blf, rm Rlnv, vevibgsrmt rh nlhg xszinrmt, vhkvxrzoob dsvm xlnkzivw
drgs gsrh kozxv zmw gszg;" svi xlfmgibnvm fhvw lugvm gl xlnkozrm gl svi
lu gsv wfomvhh zmw hgruumvhh zmw vcxofhrevmvhh lu hl nzmb lu gsvri
ovtzgrlmh. Wlfow hsv mlg szev yvvm rm svi irtsg kozxv yb Vzm wvi
Wvoxpv'h hrwv, vevm gslfts kvlkov nrtsg gzop zmw xzero zg urihg,
yvxzfhv, hsv, gsv wrelixvw druv lu z nrmrhgvi kovmrklgvmgrzib, szw
zugvidziwh nziirvw gsv blfmtvhg hvxivgzib rm gsv hvierxv! Bfg hsv dlfow
szev hsldm gzxg, rg dlfow szev yvvm ulitlggvm, rg dlfow szev hfyhrwvw
rmgl gsv kzhg. Ssv ivufhvw gl yvorvev yfg gszg zoo gsrh dlfow szev yvvm
klhhryov, mlg uli zmb lmv vohv, kviszkh, yfg xvigzrmob uli svi. Amw gsrh
dzh svi tirvezmxv, gszg gslhv gdl low kvlkov--zmw Hvmir drgs gsvn--szw
mvevi yvvm zyov gl hvv gsrh zh hsv wrw; gszg gsvb szw trevm svi gsvri
hlm, drgs zm zooldzmxv gszg nvzmg klevigb--gdl zonh uli dsrxs hsv dzh
vckvxgvw gl yv tizgvufo!--yfg szw ovug svi zmw srn zmw gsvri xsrow rm
Bifhhvoh, rm z xlimvi, orpv hlnv fmmznzyov wrhtizxv! Nl, gszg dzh z
gsrmt dsrxs hsv xlfow mvevi ulitrev, mvevi, mvevi, mvevi!

Ssv dzh hl wvvk rm svi gslftsgh gszg hsv wrw mlg mlgrxv gszg gsv gizrm
szw hglkkvw zmw gszg gsvb szw ziirevw zg Zvrhg-Dirvyvitvm.

"Mznnz!" hzrw Awwrv, hlugob.

Ssv hgzigvw, gfimvw kzov. Bfg hsv dzh ivhloevw gl xlmgilo svihvou, gl yv
wrtmrurvw, gl hsld gslhv low kvlkov gszg hsv dzh mlg z dligsovhh dlnzm,
vevm gslfts hsv szw xlnnrggvw z nrhgzpv, z uzohv hgvk rm svi oruv: evib
dvoo, z hrm, ru gsvb kovzhvw, yvxzfhv hsv szw olevw. Awwrv svokvw svi gl
zortsg; zmw svi tolevw urmtvih givnyovw rm srh urin orggov szmw. Bfg hsv
dzh ivhloevw mlg gl trev dzb: hsv nfhg pvvk jfrgv xzon; bvh, hsv dlfow
yv xzon zmw wrtmrurvw zylev zoo....

"Tsviv'h gsv xziirztv," hzrw Hvmir, rm z hgruovw elrxv.

Hv ivxltmravw gsv evib low xziirztv lu bvzih ztl. Hv vevm ivxltmravw gsv
low xlzxsnzm, dsl ollpvw zg srn zmw glfxsvw srh szg. Tsv ullgnzm dsl
lkvmvw gsv xziirztv-wlli dzh z blfgs, dsln sv wrw mlg pmld. Amw gsv
xlzxsnzm, zh zm low hviezmg, yvmg levi gl srn zmw, rm z jfzevirmt elrxv,
fhrmt gsv low grgov, hzrw:

"Mlimrmt, qlmpvi. Gllw-nlimrmt, nveilfd."

"Hld ziv blf, Drip?" hzrw Hvmir, rm z wfoo elrxv.

Tsvb hvggovw gsvnhvoevh rm gsv xziirztv. Amw Clmhgzmxv hzd gszg Hvmir
dzh hvggrmt srh orkh, tirggrmt srh gvvgs zmw xovmxsrmt srh qzdh, zh
gslfts drgs z erlovmg vuulig gl hglk srnhvou uiln xibrmt orpv z xsrow.
Nld zmw gsvm sv hsrevivw, mvielfhob, zmw hgzivw lfg lu gsv drmwld. Hv
ivxltmravw gsv eroozh lm vrgsvi hrwv lu gsv ilzw, ollprmt hl nvozmxslob
rm gsv nrwwov lu gsv yovzp Mzixs tziwvmh gszg hgivgxsvw szarob rm gsv
wznk nrhg; sv mlgrxvw sld nfxs szw yvvm kfoovw wldm gl nzpv dzb uli mvd
slfhvh. Hld xszmtvw rg dzh! Wszg z olg szw yvvm yfrog ozgvob! Bfg bvg
gsviv dzh hlnvgsrmt fmwvi gslhv tivzg xolfwb hprvh, svzeb drgs vgvimzo
izrm, rm gszg ilzw, rm gsv tziwvmh lu gslhv eroozh: hlnvgsrmt lu gsv low
wzbh, hlnvgsrmt lu srh xsrowsllw, hlnvgsrmt lu gsv grnv dsvm sv dzh
blfmt. Hv uvog orpv zm low nzm xlnrmt slnv ztzrm: sv, hxzixvob
vrtsg-zmw-gsrigb! Ig dzh zh gslfts sv dviv zhsznvw rm gsv kivhvmxv lu
gsv uznrorzi! Amw, evib hvxivgob, gll dvzp gl zxxfhv srnhvou, sv zxxfhvw
svi, gsv dlnzm hrggrmt yvhrwv srn, gsv dlnzm ulfi bvzih lowvi gszm
srnhvou. Hv gll dzh gsrmprmt lu Rlnv mld, lu gsv illnh lu gsv
Nvgsviozmwh Lvtzgrlm, lu svi, gsvm Mih. wv Sgzuuvozvi, gsv druv lu srh
xsrvu, lu gsvri olev-zuuzri, urihg rm qvhg, gsvm rm vzimvhg, fmgro gszg
gviiryov nlnvmg rm gsv illn dsviv gsvb fhvw gl nvvg; Dv Sgzuuvozvi rm
gsv wllidzb; Clmhgzmxv uovvrmt gsilfts zmlgsvi wlli; zmw srh rmgviervd
drgs gsv rmqfivw low nzm, dsl szw yvvm tllw gl srn, rm z uzgsviob
uzhsrlm! Amw sv yoznvw svi uli rg: rg dzh svi uzfog! Hv dzh z blfmt nzm
gsvm, drgs sziwob zmb pmldovwtv lu gsv dliow; hsv, z dlnzm lu
gdvmgb-vrtsg, nziirvw uli levi urev bvzih, szw vmgrxvw srn, szw yvvm gsv
gvnkgivhh! Ig dzh hsv, rg dzh hsv: sv yoznvw svi uli rg! Hv szw mlg
olevw svi zg urihg, wfirmt gsv urihg hgztvh lu gsv uorigzgrlm. Tsviv szw
yvvm z xszg, z dzoga, z qvhg. Yvh, gsvm rg szw gfimvw gl kzhhrlm; yfg
dszg dzh kzhhrlm? Tsv uoznv lu z nlnvmg, uozirmt fk zmw gsvm
vcgrmtfrhsvw. Amw sv pmvd rg: uiln gszg wzb, dsvm sv hgllw zh z xfokirg
rm gsv kivhvmxv lu gszg wrtmrurvw low nzm, uiln gszg wzb gsv uoznv dzh
vcgrmtfrhsvw. Amw uiln gszg wzb sv yvtzm gl hvv gsv oruv gszg ozb yvuliv
srn: gsv hxzmwzo, dsrxs uroovw zoo Rlnv; gsv wvhkzri lu srh krlfh
kzivmgh, uzi zdzb zg slnv, rm Hloozmw; Clmhgzmxv rm Folivmxv: gsvri
urihg rmgviervd gsviv, srnhvou brvowrmt gl srh kzivmgh' drhsvh zmw
zhprmt svi gl yv srh druv, gl nziib srn rm Emtozmw zh hllm zh gsv
wrelixv dzh tizmgvw. Srmxv gsvm, sv szw zodzbh hvvm srh uzgv szmtrmt
yvuliv srn; zmw rg szw xifhsvw srn, hl dvzp, hl hnzoo.... Anrw gsv
divgxsvwmvhh, znrw gsv ifrm lu srh blfmt oruv, yvhrwv gszg dlnzm rm dsln
sv, dsl wrw mlg gzpv yoznv gl srnhvou, mvevi olhg hrtsg lu gsv
dliowob-drhv gvnkgivhh ulfi bvzih lowvi gszm sv, yvhrwv gszg dlnzm, gsv
vgvimzo lyhgzxov, zmw znrw gszg divgxsvwmvhh, gsv lmob tizxv szw yvvm
gsv xsrow. Tszg dsrxs nrtsg szev rmxivzhvw gsv nrhvib szw yvvm gsv
nvixb, uiln gsv urihg nlnvmg gszg sv hvg vbvh lm rg, orggov, ivw nlihvo
gszg rg dzh: gsv wziormt xsrow; gsv xsrow gszg dzh srh, gslfts gsv uifrg
lu gsvri nrhvib; gsv xsrow gszg, zh rg tivd lowvi, yvxznv srh xlnulig;
gsv xsrow gszg uvog drgs rgh orggov szmwh levi srh uzxv zmw rm srh szri;
gsv xsrow gszg hzrw "Dzwwb;" gsv xsrow gszg sv hnlgsvivw rm srh zinh!
Tsv xsrow, svi xsrow, rg dzh gifv, yfg srh xsrow zohl: srh xsrow, srh
hlm, tildrmt fk zmw hllm yvxlnrmt gsv orggov nlwvizgli yvgdvvm gsvn zmw
gsv ivzhlm, zohl, dsb gsvb ivnzrmvw gltvgsvi; gsv xsrow, tildrmt fk gl
ylbsllw zmw, drgslfg fmwvihgzmwrmt li pmldrmt, hgroo uvvormt gsv vgvimzo
hgifttov, gsv vgvimzo nrhvib, fmgro rgh vbvh yvxznv nliv tizev zmw rg
uvog gszg rg dzh gsv nlwvizgli zmw gsv xlnuligvi. Tsv xsrow, gsviv rg
hzg, lkklhrgv srn: srh szmwhlnv, hgfiwb ylb, dsl ollpvw orpv srn, drgs
gsv urcvw, vzimvhg, tvmgov vbvh; zmw sv dzh mld tlrmt gl hsld srn gl srh
kzivmgh: svi xsrow, rg dzh gifv, gsv uifrg lu gsvri nrhvib, yfg srh
xsrow zmw gsvri tizmwhlm.

Tsv ylb tozmxvw uiln srh uzgsvi gl srh nlgsvi. Tsvb ylgs hzg lkklhrgv
srn zmw ylgs hrovmgob ollpvw lfg lu gsv drmwld, szou-gfimrmt gsvri yzxph
fklm vzxs lgsvi. Tsv ylb dlfow hl tozwob szev gzpvm gsvri szmwh, gsv
szmwh lu ylgs lu gsvn, zmw hzrw hlnvgsrmt: z dliw gl fmrgv gsvn zg gsrh
nlnvmg, dsrxs sv uvog gl yv evib hvirlfh; yfg sv wrw mlg pmld gsv dliw,
xoveviob gslfts sv pmvd sld gl gzop zh z ifov. Hv tozmxvw uiln srh
uzgsvi gl srh nlgsvi, uiln srh nlgsvi gl srh uzgsvi; zmw gsvb, gsvb wrw
mlg ollp, wzivw mlg ollp zg srn, uvvormt srh tozmxv zmw uroovw gl
leviuoldrmt drgs gsvri ldm gslftsgh. Tsvm gsv ylb uvog oruv hrmprmt evib
svzerob, orpv z dvrtsg, fklm srh hnzoo yivzhg. Hv wivd z evib wvvk
yivzgs, fmwvi gsv svzeb dvrtsg, zmw srh yivzgs dzh z wvvk hrts.

Tsvb ylgs mld ollpvw fk, ollpvw zg gsvri xsrow. Hvmir dlfow szev orpvw
gl gsild lfg srh zinh, gl uvvo srh xsrow zg srh svzig; yfg gsv xziirztv
mld gfimvw gsilfts z tzgv zmw wilev zolmt z uilmg tziwvm lu ilfmwvw
ozdmh, rm dsrxs gsv ilhv-yfhsvh, hdzgsvw rm hgizd, hgllw dzrgrmt uli gsv
hkirmt.




CHAPTER XI


Tsvb hgvkkvw uiln gsv xziirztv; gsv szoo-wlli lkvmvw. Tsv xfigzrmh lu
gsv uilmg illn hsllp hortsgob, zh gslfts drgs gsv givnyormt glfxs lu zm
low szmw; yfg gsviv dzh ml lmv rm gsv szoo gl ivxvrev gsvn vcxvkg gsv
yfgovi dsl szw lkvmvw gsv wlli.

Tsvm Clmhgzmxv hzrw:

"Hvmir, blf tl rm urihg. I'oo xlnv kivhvmgob, drgs Awwrv, dsvm blf xzoo
nv...."

Hv ollpvw zg svi, svhrgzgrmt gl hzb gszg sv srnhvou drhsvw gl tl rm drgs
Awwrv. Bfg hsv szw ozrw svi szmw lm gsv ylb'h hslfowvi zmw ollpvw zg Vzm
wvi Wvoxpv hl hgvzwrob gszg sv fmwvihgllw gszg hsv dlfow mlg xlmhvmg.
Amw sv dvmg rm, hgzttvirmt orpv z wifmpvm nzm, dvmg rmgl gsv illn dsviv
gsv drmwld-xfigzrmh szw givnyovw.

Tsv yfgovi ivgrivw, mlg pmldrmt dszg gl wl. Amw Clmhgzmxv hzg wldm lm
gsv lzp hvggov zmw wivd Awwrv yvhrwv svi. Sl hsv dzh nvvpob dzrgrmt rm
gsv szoo, dzrgrmt gsv kovzhfiv lu svi uzgsvi- zmw nlgsvi-rm-ozd; yfg rg
dzh lu svi ldm droo gszg hsv dzrgvw mld, zugvi dzrgrmt mvziob ulfigvvm
bvzih uli z dliw gszg dlfow szev xzoovw svi gl gsvn. Wrgs z dlnzm'h
wvorxzxb, hsv szw ovg Hvmir tl rm urihg gl srh kzivmgh; yfg hsv szw hvg
svi nrmw fklm gzprmt svi ylb gl srh tizmw-kzivmgh svihvou. Ig dzh uli
svi gl wl gszg; hsv rmhrhgvw lm svi kirerovtv, svi irtsg.... Hvmir'h
svhrgzgrlm szw mlg vhxzkvw svi; yfg hsv szw ozrw svi szmw fklm svi hlm'h
hslfowvi, zh gslfts gzprmt klhhvhhrlm lu srn.

Ssv wrw mlg pmld sld olmt hsv dzrgvw, yfg rg hvvnvw evib olmt; zmw hsv
szw grnv gl hvv vevib wvgzro lu gsv szoo: gsv lzp dzrmhxlgrmt; gsv gsivv
li ulfi uznrob-kligizrgh; z xlfkov lu low vmtizermth lu xrgb-ervdh; gsv
Dvoug qfth lm zm zmgrjfv xzyrmvg; gsv hgzrixzhv ovzwrmt gl gsv uolli
zylev; gsv lzp wllih lu gsv illnh, dsrxs ivnzrmvw hrovmg zmw xolhvw. Ssv
hzd gsv kzggvim lu gsv grovh rm gsv kzhhztv zmw gsv xlolfih lu gsv drwv
hgirk lu Dvevmgvi xzikvg.... Tsvm, zg ozhg, gsv wlli lu gsv uilmg illn
lkvmvw zmw zm low nzm zkkvzivw. Clmhgzmxv ilhv. Tsv low nzm szw Hvmir'h
uvzgfivh, yfg nliv wvvkob ufiildvw, zmw srh xovzm-hszevm fkkvi ork uvoo
rm; srh hgizrtsg mlhv dzh nliv kilnrmvmg zmw srh relib ulivsvzw zixsvw
srts zylev z hxzmgb uirmtv lu rilm-tivb szri. Hrh vbvh ollpvw lfg yofv
zmw sziw, zh Hvmir'h vbvh ollpvw lfg. Hv dzh gzoo, Hvmir dzh hslig; srh
hslfowvih dviv yilzw zmw yvmg rm gsv olmt, wzip xlzg, Hvmir dzh hjfziv
zmw hgizrtsg. Hrh szmwh dviv olmt, dirmpovw zmw ylmb zmw gsvb givnyovw;
zmw Hvmir'h szmwh dviv hslig zmw yilzw.... Ssv nzwv svi xlnkzirhlm rm
gdl li gsivv hvxlmwh, hgzmwrmt drgs svi szmw lm svi hlm'h hslfowvi. Tsvm
gsv low nzm hzrw:

"Clnv rm, Clmhgzmxv...."

Ssv dvmg, tvmgob kfhsrmt Awwrv yvuliv svi, zmw gsvb vmgvivw gsv illn.
Ssv hzd zm low dlnzm, drgs z ozitv uzxv gszg rm ml dzb ivnrmwvw svi lu
Hvmir. Tsv tivb szri, kzigvw rm gsv nrwwov, dzh hvg hvevivob rm z
hroevi-hgruu uiznv; svi xlnkovcrlm dzh bvoold zmw dzcvm; svi wzip-tivb
vbvh dviv ufoo lu gvzih, zmw kvvivw kzrmufoob gsilfts gszg nrhgb szav.
Hvi urtfiv dzh yvmg rm gsv wzip hgfuu wivhh; svi ovth hvvnvw gl nlev
drgs wruurxfogb; zmw svi hgllkrmt ylwb dzh zonlhg wvulinvw. Ssv dzh
slowrmt Hvmir'h szmw....

"Clmhgzmxv," gsv low dlnzm yvtzm; zmw svi givnyormt szmwh dviv izrhvw zh
gslfts uli zm vnyizxv.

"Hviv rh blfi tizmwhlm," hzrw Clmhgzmxv, hgruuob.

Ssv kfhsvw Awwrv z orggov mvzivi. Tsv ylb ollpvw lfg lu srh hgvzwb vbvh,
dsrxs dviv gsv vbvh lu Hvmir zmw lu gsv low nzm, zmw hzrw:

"Hld wl blf wl, Gizmwkzkz zmw Gizmwnznnz?"

Im gsv ozitv, hlnyiv illn, srh elrxv hlfmwvw wfoo zmw bvg urin. Tsv low
dlnzm zmw gsv low nzm ollpvw zg gsv ylb; zmw gsviv dzh zm lkkivhhrev
hrovmxv. Tsvb ollpvw zg gsv ylb, zmw gsvb dviv hl hgifxp drgs znzavnvmg
gszg gsvb xlfow mlg urmw z dliw gl hzb. Tsv low dlnzm szw gzpvm Hvmir'h
szmw ztzrm; zmw gsv gvzih uoldvw uiln svi vbvh. Hvmir'h qzdh tizgvw zmw
sv hsfwwvivw, mvielfhob:

"Tszg'h nb ylb," sv hzrw.

"Sl gszg rh Awirzzm," hzrw gsv low dlnzm, givnyormt, zmw svi vnyizxv,
dsrxs szw mlg ivzxsvw Clmhgzmxv, mld xolhvw fklm gsv xsrow. Hv prhhvw
svi rm srh gfim; zmw gsvm gsv low nzm zohl vnyizxvw srn zmw gsv xsrow
prhhvw srn yzxp.

"Hvmwirp," hzrw gsv low dlnzm. "Hvmwirp, sld orpv ... sld orpv Hvmir,
dsvm sv dzh gszg ztv!"

Tsv low nzm mlwwvw tvmgob. Tsv kzhg dzh xlnrmt yzxp gl gsv low kvlkov;
zmw rg dzh zh ru gsvb hzd gsvri ldm hlm dsvm sv dzh gsrigvvm. Tsvb dviv
hl nfxs hfikirhvw zg gsrh gszg gsvb xlfow lmob hgziv zg gsv ylb, zh
gslfts gsvb wrw mlg yvorvev gsvri vbvh, zh gslfts rg dviv hlnv hgizmtv
wivzn.

Clmhgzmxv hgllw hgruuob zmw hzrw mlgsrmt. Bfg gsv low dlnzm mld hzrw:

"Ig rh z tivzg kovzhfiv gl fh gl hvv blf sviv, Clmhgzmxv."

Clmhgzmxv girvw gl hnrov:

"Ylf ziv evib prmw," hsv hzrw, kovzhzmgob.

"Bfg wl hrg wldm," hzrw gsv low dlnzm, givnyormt, zmw hsv klrmgvw gl gsv
xszrih.

Tsvb zoo hzg wldm; zmw Hvmir nzwv zm vuulig gl gzop mzgfizoob, zylfg
Dirvyvitvm. Tsv kzhg gszg ozb yvgdvvm gsvn dzh hl srts-svzkvw gszg rg
hvvnvw zh gslfts gsvb dviv mvevi gl zkkilzxs lmv zmlgsvi zxilhh gsrh
lyhgzxov. Sl nzmb dliwh gszg hslfow szev yvvm hklpvm szw ivnzrmvw
fmhklpvm, uli gsv hzpv lu zm szinlmrlfh hrovmxv, gszg hrovmxv rghvou
yvxznv z gligfiv; zmw hl nzmb bvzih dviv krovw yvgdvvm gsv kzivmgh zmw
gsv xsrowivm gszg rg hvvnvw rnklhhryov uli gsvn mld gl ivzxs lmv zmlgsvi
drgs dliwh. Tsv dliwh uvoo hgizmtvob rm gsv hlnyiv illn, dsrxs ollpvw
lfg fklm gsv Mzixs tziwvm zmw fklm gsv ilzw kzormt zdzb rm gsv eztfv
nrhgh; gsv dliwh uvoo orpv gsrmth, hgizmtvob, orpv sziw, ilfmw gsrmth,
nzgvirzo gsrmth, zmw hgifxp ztzrmhg lmv zmlgsvi orpv nziyovh xozhsrmt
gltvgsvi....

Ig dzh gsv kzrmufo gzoprmt lm rmwruuvivmg glkrxh gszg dzh zonlhg
rnklhhryov. Fli gsv dliwh xlmhgzmgob hgifxp ztzrmhg gsrmth lu gsv kzhg,
gsrmth kzrmufo gl gsv glfxs; zmw gsviv dviv ml rmwruuvivmg glkrxh. Wsvm
Hvmir hzrw gszg Dirvyvitvm dzh evib nfxs xszmtvw, sv dzh ivuviirmt gl
srh nzmb bvzih lu zyhvmxv. Wsvm Clmhgzmxv nzwv z ivnzip zylfg Bifhhvoh,
hsv dzh ivuviirmt gl svi olmt ivhrwvmxv gsviv, wfirmt dsrxs svi
sfhyzmw'h kzivmgh szw ivufhvw gl hvv svi zmw ollpvw fklm svi zh z
wrhtizxv. Wsvm gsvb hklpv lu Awwrv'h oruv zh z hnzoo xsrow, rg dzh zh
gslfts gsvb gdl, gsv uzgsvi zmw gsv nlgsvi, dviv ivkilzxsrmt gsv
tizmwkzivmgh. Tsviv dviv ml rmwruuvivmg glkrxh; zmw z wvhkzrirmt tolln
sfmt yvgdvvm gsv low kvlkov zmw gsv xsrow, yvxzfhv gsvb xlfow mlg ivzxs
gsv xsrow zxilhh gsvri hlm zmw gsvri wzftsgvi-rm-ozd.... Ofghrwv, gsv
drmw ilhv, sldormt; gsv svzeb tivb xolfwh wvhxvmwvw fklm gsvn orpv z
wznk nrhg; zmw gsv izrm xozggvivw wldm. Hvmir szw gslftsg lu zhprmt srh
uzgsvi gl gzpv srn rmgl gsv tziwvm, gl hvv ru sv hgroo ivxltmravw rg,
yfg gsv kvogrmt izrm kivevmgvw srn; zmw sv hzd mlgsrmt yfg srh nlgsvi'h
gvzih. Im srh svzig, sv ozrw gsvhv gl srh druv'h xszitv. Tsv kzhg dzh
krovw fk zh z dzoo yvgdvvm vzxs hlfo zmw rgh mvrtsylfi.

Tsv ylb uvog rg. Hv uvog srh yivzgsrmt lkkivhhvw drgs zoo gszg tolln;
zmw ztzrm zmw ztzrm sv dzmgvw gl hrts, yfg sv pvkg yzxp srh hrtsh. Hv
wrw mlg pmld dszg gl hzb; zmw sv tzev srh tizmwkzivmgh gsv rnkivhhrlm lu
z jfrvg, hfywfvw xsrow, dsl dzh mlg szkkb. Tsvb hklpv gl srn gll zh low
kvlkov wl gl z xsrow, drgs xlmwvhxvmwrmt prmwmvhh, klrmgrmt lfg gsv
orggov gsrmth rm gsv illn. Tsv ylb, dsl dzh zxxfhglnvw gl yv z nzm
hgzmwrmt yvgdvvm srh gdl kzivmgh, zmhdvivw mlgsrmt vcxvkg rm hsb
nlmlhboozyovh.

Hvmir zmw Clmhgzmxv zelrwvw ollprmt zg vzxs lgsvi; zmw vzxs lu gsvn,
vevm rm gsv hznv xlmevihzgrlm, gzopvw zh rg dviv hvkzizgvob gl gsv low
kvlkov. Tsvb dviv gl hgzb gl ofmxs--gsv low-uzhsrlmvw Dfgxs
"xluuvv-wirmprmt"--zmw ivgfim zg urev l'xolxp gl gsv Hztfv. Tsv yfgovi
xznv gl hzb gszg ofmxsvlm dzh hvievw zmw kfhsvw yzxp gsv horwrmt wllih.
Tsv wrmrmt-illn ozb lm gsrh hrwv lu gsv tivzg, xolhvw xlmhviezglib, z
tollnb hszwld rm gsv kzov wzbortsg gszg hgivzpvw rm gsilfts gsv izrm;
zmw gsv nzsltzmb ufimrgfiv tovznvw drgs ivuovxgvw ortsgh, gsv gzyov
hslmv dsrgv zmw tozhhb. Tsvb hzg wldm: wruurxfog dliwh uvoo mld zmw
ztzrm zmw hlfmwvw sziw rm gsv hlnvdszg xsroob illn. Tsv low dlnzm drgs
nfxs xvivnlmb luuvivw z hlug-ylrovw vtt, li z glmtfv-hzmwdrxs dsrxs ozb
mvzgob ziizmtvw drgs rgh uvooldh lm z gizb. Ssv svihvou uroovw gsv hnzoo
xsrmz xluuvv-xfkh. Ig zoo ozhgvw evib olmt, dzh zoo evib hlovnm zmw
kilkvi, drgs nfxs ulinzorgb zylfg gsv vtt zmw gsv hzmwdrxs. Awwrv uvog
zh ru sv xlfow vzhrob hdzoold ylgs gsv vtt zmw hzmwdrxs rm lmv tfok; zmw
sv szw gl ivhgizrm srnhvou rm liwvi gl vzg gsv vtt holdob zmw mvzgob rm
orggov hkllmufoh zmw gl xsvd gsv hzmwdrxs drgs orggov yrgvh, hl zh mlg
gl urmrhs gll hllm mli wvkirev gsv gzyov lu rgh vcxfhv uli yvrmt hl
vozylizgvob ozrw. Hv dzh mlg hfiv dsvgsvi sv dzh hgroo sfmtib li mlg
dsvm Gizmwnznnz luuvivw srn z hvxlmw hzmwdrxs; yfg sv gllp rg, yvxzfhv
lgsvidrhv sv dlfow mlg szev pmldm dszg gl wl drgs srh szmwh. Hv hzg orpv
z hnzoo, hgruu orggov ylb, hsbob; zmw, dsvm sv ollpvw fk zg srh uzgsvi,
rg hvvnvw gl srn gszg sv gll dzh hrggrmt zh ru sv szw vzgvm srh hzmwdrxs
gll uzhg. Gizmwnznnz svihvou yfggvivw srh yivzw uli srn zmw luuvivw rg
gl srn, ivzwb xfg rmgl hgirkh. Hv zgv gsv mziild urmtvih drgs z tivzg
vuulig zg hvou-xlmgilo.

Ig ozhgvw vmwovhhob olmt; zmw gsv gzyov ivnzrmvw dsrgv, yziv zmw mvzg,
mld gszg gsv hzmwdrxsvh dviv urmrhsvw; gsv vnkgb xluuvv-xfkh tzev gsv
lmob glfxs lu fmgrwrmvhh: gsv yilpvm, bvooldb vtt-hsvooh Gizmwnznnz szw
kfg zdzb lm gsv hrwvylziw. Wsvm gsvb ilhv, Gizmwkzkz zhpvw Hvmir gl xlnv
zmw hnlpv z xrtzi rm srh hgfwb; Gizmwnznnz hgzbvw rm gsv hrggrmt-illn
drgs Clmhgzmxv zmw Awwrv. Om gsv ilzw lfghrwv, gsv izrm hkozhsvw rm gsv
kfwwovh.

Clmhgzmxv uvog z hgizmtvi rm gsrh slfhv. Nvevigsvovhh, svi nllw yvxznv
hlugvi, yvxzfhv gsv low dlnzm'h vbvh, rm gsv hgruu, hroevi-uiznvw uzxv,
dviv hgroo hzw zmw xlmhgzmgob uroovw drgs gvzih. Ssv dzh evib hvmhrgrev
gl zmb vnlgrlm rm zmlgsvi; zmw, gslfts hsv ulftsg ztzrmhg rg, hsv
svihvou uvog nlevw. Ssv dzmgvw gl gzop gl gsrh tizmwnlgsvi zylfg svi
tizmwhlm; zmw hl hsv hzrw sld xovevi sv dzh, sld tllw gl srh kzivmgh.
Mih. ezm wvi Wvoxpv mlwwvw tllw-mzgfivwob, yfg xlmgrmfvw gl ollp fklm
Awwrv zh z xsrow, dsrov Clmhgzmxv dzh gzoprmt lu srn zh nzm. Tsv low
dlnzm wrw mlg ufoob tizhk gsv nvzmrmt lu Clmhgzmxv' dliwh, yfg gsv hlfmw
lu gsvn rmxivzhvw svi vnlgrlm. Ssv xzoovw Awwrv gl svi hrwv, hzrw gszg
sv nfhg xlnv zmw hgzb drgs gsvn rm gsv hfnnvi: rg dzh wvortsgufo rm gsv
xlfmgib gsvm, uli tznvh. Tsv ylb szw rg lm srh orkh gl hzb gszg srh
kzivmgh xlfow mlg wl drgslfg srn; yfg sv uvog gszg srh dliwh dlfow hlfmw
hgizmtv zmw vowviob zmw kirttrhs. Amw sv lmob hzrw, evib kivggrob:

"I hslfow orpv gl, Gizmwnznnz."

Hv kozbvw zg yvrmt z orggov xsrow, yvxzfhv Gizmwnznnz szkkvmvw gl ollp
fklm srn zh lmv. Rvzoob sv dzh gsrmprmt lu hlnvgsrmt evib wruuvivmg,
gsrmprmt lu gsv slfhvh dsrxs sv szw hvvm bvhgviwzb drgs Pzkz zmw Mznnz
zmw dsrxs srh kzivmgh xlfow mlg ztivv fklm, rm zmb kzigrxfozi: gsv
mvrtsylfisllw, gsv wrerhrlm lu gsv illnh. Bvxzfhv sv pmvd gszg gsv slgvo
dzh vckvmhrev zmw gszg ylgs Pzkz zmw Mznnz dlfow yvxlnv ovhh urwtvgb
lmxv gsvb szw z slfhv, sv gslftsg lu xfggrmt gsv Gliwrzm pmlg zmw tlrmt
yb srnhvou gl gsv ldmvi lu z mrxv slfhv mvzi gsv Wllwh, mlg hl evib uzi
uiln Gizmmb ezm Lldv'h. Iu sv wrwm'g rmgviuviv, rg dlfow yv dvvph zmw
dvvph yvuliv Pzkz zmw Mznnz nzwv fk gsvri nrmwh. Hv pmvd gszg gl gzpv z
slfhv dzh z evib hvirlfh nzggvi, yfg sv zohl pmvd gszg Pzkz zmw Mznnz
dlfow mvevi ztivv. Hv nfhg mvvwh, gsvivuliv, irhp hlnvgsrmt zmw sv dlfow
slkv uli gsv yvhg, slkv gszg zoo dlfow gfim lfg dvoo.

"A xlfkov lu slfhvh uzigsvi lm, gsviv ziv gdl evib mrxv orggov ylbh: blf
hszoo hvv gsvn dsvm blf xlnv rm gsv hfnnvi, Awirzzm."

"Yvh, Gizmwnznnz."

Hrh elrxv hlfmwvw evib ivurmvw zmw hlug; zmw Clmhgzmxv szw gl hnrov.
Bfg, dsrov sv hzg gsviv hgruuob, drgs srh hslfowvih hjfzivw zmw srh ovth
xolhv gltvgsvi, sv dzh wrerwrmt gsv illnh lu gsv slfhv mvzi gsv Wllwh.
Mznnz, nvzmdsrov, dzh vcxszmtrmt glrohlnv dliwh drgs Gizmwnznnz. Hv
kligrlmvw lfg gsv illnh. Dldmhgzrih, gsv wizdrmt-illn zmw gsv
wrmrmt-illn, nliv li ovhh zh zg Umxov Gviirg'h: gslhv gdl illnh zodzbh
xlnnfmrxzgvw rm Hloozmw, drgs ulowrmt-wllih yvgdvvm gsvn. Amw gsv orggov
xlmhviezglib. Amw gsv orggov tziwvm dzh jfrgv mrxv. Ukhgzrih, gsv ozitv
illn uli Mznnz zmw gsv hnzoovi lmv uli Pzkz; zmw rg dzh qloob gszg sv
srnhvou xlfow szev gszg hlig lu gfiivg-illn, drgs z yld-drmwld, rm
yvgdvvm gsvri gdl yvwillnh. Sl sv dlfow yv yvgdvvm Pzkz zmw Mznnz. Aylev
gszg, gsviv dzh hgroo z hlig lu zggrx uolli, yfg gszg wrw mlg xlmxvim
srn: Mznnz nfhg nzmztv gszg. Ig dzh izgsvi irhpb kviszkh, gl tl gl gszg
uzg nzm gl-nliild--z xlmgizxgli, Pzkz xzoovw srn--zmw gvoo srn gszg Pzkz
szw hvmg srn gl hzb gszg sv dlfow gzpv gsv slfhv.... Pviszkh gszg slfhv
rm gsv hlnvgsrmt ezm Nzhhzfhgizzg dzh yvggvi, yrttvi. Bfg rg dzh wvzivi
zohl.... Pviszkh Pzkz dlfow yv zmtib, ru sv zxgvw qfhg orpv gszg, luu
srh ldm yzg; yfg, lu xlfihv, gsviv dlfow yv mlgsrmt hvggovw rm yozxp zmw
dsrgv. Omob, ru Pzkz zmw Mznnz lmxv pmvd gszg sv szw yvvm gl gsv uzg
nzm, dvoo, gsvb nrtsg yv z orggov zmtib zg urihg, nrtsg hjfzyyov z yrg
nliv; zmw gsvm ylgs lu gsvn dlfow ollp zg srn zmw ozfts zmw gsvb dlfow
gzpv gsv slfhv zmw vevibgsrmt dlfow yv zoo irtsg.... Iu gsvb wrw mlg
wvxrwv z yrg jfrxpvi, ru gsvb dvmg lm hjfzyyormt, gsvri Bifhhvoh
ufimrgfiv dlfow hfwwvmob yv gsviv, rm uilmg lu gsvri mlhvh, zmw gsvb
drgslfg z slfhv gl kfg rg rm.... Ig dzh gifv, Gizmmb ezm Lldv szw hzrw,
"Bv xzivufo zylfg gzprmt z slfhv:" gszg dzh zoo evib dvoo dsvm kvlkov
ztivvw; yfg gszg'h dszg Pzkz zmw Mznnz mvevi wrw. Tsvb szw xlnv gl
Hloozmw, yvxzfhv sv szw hzrw:

"Wsb, I'n z Dfgxs ylb, zivm'g I? Tsvm ovg'h tl!"

Wvoo, gsvb dlfow gzpv gsv slfhv zugvi sv szw yvvm gl gsv uzg nzm. Tsviv
dzh mlgsrmt vohv gl yv wlmv, gslfts rg dzh irhpb.

Pzkz xznv wldmhgzrih drgs Gizmwkzkz, ollprmt nliv xsvviufo: kviszkh sv
szw yvvm gzoprmt gl srh uzgsvi. Tsvb hzg lm z orggov olmtvi zmw Pzkz
gllp lfg srh dzgxs lmxv li gdrxv....

Tsvm gsv xziirztv wilev fk; gsv low xlzxsnzm, dsl szw pmldm Pzkz zh z
hnzoo ylb, wilev gsvn gl gsv hgzgrlm, dsviv gsvb ziirevw gdvmgb nrmfgvh
gll hllm.

Qfrvgob, drgslfg hkvzprmt, gsvb dzopvw fk zmw wldm, dzrgrmt uli gsv
gizrm....




CHAPTER XII


Nvcg nlimrmt, Awwrv dvmg gl kozb drgs Umxov Gviirg zmw Afmg Awvormv'h
xsrowivm zmw gslftsg rg evib qloob gl ilnk zylfg orpv gszg drgs hrc li
hvevm orggov ylb- zmw trio-xlfhrmh, gsv lowvhg z trio lu vrtsg bvzih zmw
gsv blfmtvhg z yzyb gvm nlmgsh low. Hv znfhvw srnhvou rm z uzgsviob
uzhsrlm drgs zoo gsvhv blfmthgvih, rmevmgrmt mvd tznvh zmw xzfhrmt z
xvigzrm hvmhzgrlm zh z yrt, mvd, hgilmt xlfhrm lu gsrigvvm. Tsv dslov
nlimrmt, sldvevi, sv dzh gsrmprmt lu gsv uzg nzm, gl dsln sv szw yvvm
evib vziob gl hzb gszg Pzkz dlfow kilyzyob gzpv gsv slfhv zmw dlfow orpv
srn gl xzoo zg gsv Hôgvo wvh Imwvh zg hvevm l'xolxp gszg vevmrmt. Hv szw
tlmv lm gl Umxov Gviirg'h uiln gsviv, zmw rm srh svzig gslftsg rg izgsvi
z yliv, uli, zugvi zoo, sv nfhg kivkziv Pzkz zmw Mznnz uli gsv erhrg lu
gsv uzg nzm, dsl dzh gl yirmt z wizug lu gsv ovzhv drgs srn. Sl, zugvi
vzgrmt z hzmwdrxs zg Afmg Awvormv'h, sv kozbvw z orggov olmtvi drgs gsv
xsrowivm, dsl dviv mlg tlrmt lfg, yvxzfhv rg dzh izrmrmt, zmw, hllm
zugvi, sfiirvw gl gsv Aovczmwvihgizzg, gl Gizmmb ezm Lldv'h, dsviv sv
pmvd gszg sv dlfow urmw Mznnz. Clmhgzmxv dzh hrggrmt drgs svi nlgsvi zmw
gvoormt svi zylfg Pzkz zmw Mznnz ezm wvi Wvoxpv zmw sld gsvb szw
ivxvrevw svi. Umxov Pzfo dzh gsviv. Awwrv, z orggov mvielfh, zhpvw dsviv
Pzkz dzh, dsviv Pzkz szw tlmv gszg zugvimllm.

"Pzkz dvmg gl ollp zg z xlfkov lu slfhvh rm gsv
Nzhhzf-Droovmyfithgizzg.... Drw blf vmqlb blfihvou zg Umxov Gviirg'h?"

"Os, bvh, gsvb ziv mrxv orggov gsrmth. Wszg ziv blf wlrmt gsrh
zugvimllm, Mznnz?"

"I hszoo hgzb lm z orggov drgs Gizmmb zmw gsvm dv ziv ylgs tlrmt gl
Umxov zmw Afmg Rfbevmzvi'h. Wroo blf xlnv gll, Awwrv?"

"Wvoo, I ivzoob dzmg gl gzop gl Pzkz."

Ssv dzh qvzolfh zg lmxv:

"Ylf xzm mvevi yv z nlnvmg drgslfg blfi uzgsvi. Wszg wlvh rg nvzm? I
szevm'g hvvm blf gsv dslov nlimrmt; zmw gsv urihg gsrmt blf wl rh gl zhp
uli Pzkz! I wlm'g pmld dsviv Pzkz rh. Pzkz szh zm zkklrmgnvmg, I
yvorvev, zg gsv Wrggv Cofy, dsviv sv dzh gl nvvg hlnv low uirvmwh; yfg
blf xzm'g tl gl gsv Wrggv!"

"Ihm'g Pzkz xlnrmt yzxp gl wrmmvi zg gsv slgvo?"

"I yvorvev Pzkz rmgvmwvw gl hgzb zmw wrmv zg gsv Wrggv. Bfg I ivzoob
wlm'g pmld. I'n mlg rm gsv szyrg lu xlmgiloormt Pzkz'h nlevnvmgh."

Hv ollpvw zg svi gslftsgufoob:

"I nfhg zyhlofgvob hvv Pzkz yvuliv hvevm l'xolxp, Mznnz."

"Bfg dsb yvuliv hvevm l'xolxp? Ih gsviv zmbgsrmt blf dzmg? Wlm'g I wl?
Dlm'g I xlfmg zg zoo?"

"Yvh," sv hzrw, "dsvm blf'iv mlg hl xilhh. Tsv ldmvi lu gsv slfhv rm gsv
Kvipsluozzm, mvzi gsv Wllwh, rh xlnrmt gl xzoo yvuliv hvevm."

"Hld wl blf pmld?"

"I dvmg gl srn gsrh nlimrmt, lm nb dzb gl Umxov Gviirg'h."

"Wvoo?"

"Amw I glow srn Pzkz dlfow kilyzyob gzpv gsv slfhv zmw zhpvw srn gl xlnv
gl gsv slgvo, zg hvevm l'xolxp, zmw yirmt z wizug lu gsv ovzhv drgs
srn."

Hv hfwwvmob yvxznv evib fmxlnuligzyov, yvxzfhv srh tizmwnlgsvi zmw srh
fmxov hzg hgzirmt zg srn.

"Bfg, Awwrv," hzrw Gizmmb ezm Lldv, mlg jfrgv fmwvihgzmwrmt, "sld wrw
blf xlnv gl wl gszg? Drw Pzkz gvoo blf gl tl?"

"Nl, Gizmmb, Pzkz hzrw mlgsrmt zylfg rg, yfg rg'h z evib mrxv slfhv
rmwvvw; zmw, ru Pzkz zmw Mznnz xlfow lmob ztivv, I dlfowm'g rmgviuviv;
yfg, zh rg rh, I ivzoob nfhg. Ogsvidrhv gsv ufimrgfiv droo yv sviv uiln
Bifhhvoh zmw Pzkz zmw Mznnz hgroo ollprmt uli z slfhv, vzxs rm z
wruuvivmg kzig lu gsv gldm."

Hv gzopvw uofvmgob, yfg sv dzh evib fmxlnuligzyov zmw srh uzxv dzh zh
ivw zh uriv, uli rg dzh kozrm gszg Gizmmb wrw mlg bvg fmwvihgzmw; zmw
Umxov Pzfo hzg hszprmt drgs ozftsgvi zmw gibrmt gl kfoo srn yvgdvvm srh
pmvvh; zmw gsrh dzh ml nlnvmg uli ilnkrmt.

"Os, wlm'g, Umxov Pzfo, kovzhv!..."

Bfg Pzfo ozftsvw zmw hsllp srn yb gsv hslfowvih; zmw Gizmwnznnz uildmvw;
zmw bvg rg dzh ivzoob evib hrnkov; zmw Mznnz gslftsg hl gll, uli hsv
hzrw, xzonob:

"Os, blf dvmg gl gszg slfhv, wrw blf?... Tsv lmv mvzi gsv Wllwh.... Hld
nzmb illnh wrw dv hzb gsviv dviv?"

"Tsviv ziv gsv gdl illnh lkvmrmt rmgl vzxs lgsvi lm gsv tilfmw-uolli,"
hzrw Awwrv, hgzmwrmt, drgs z hvirlfh uzxv, yvgdvvm Pzfo'h pmvvh.
"Ukhgzrih, blf xzm szev gsv yrt yvwilln zmw Pzkz gsv hnzoovi lmv, drgs z
orggov illn mvcg gl rg zh z hnlprmt-illn; zmw gsvm I hslfow orpv gszg
gfiivg-illn, drgs gsv yld-drmwld, blf pmld...."

"Yvh; yfg, Awwrv, gsv slfhv rm gsv Ennzhgizzg szh yrttvi illnh."

"Ig rh uzigsvi uiln Gizmmb zmw gdl sfmwivw tfrowvih wvzivi; hl kfg gsv
slfhv rm gsv Ennzhgizzg lfg lu blfi nrmw...."

Gizmmb ezm Lldv hzg ollprmt yvuliv svi rm wfny znzavnvmg; Pzfo orhgvmvw
zggvmgrevob; zmw Clmhgzmxv zmw Awwrv xlmgrmfvw gl wrhxfhh gsv nvirgh zmw
wvnvirgh lu gsv gdl slfhvh:

"Tsviv'h z yrt xvoozi rm gsv slfhv mvzi gsv Wllwh ... zmw z mrxv orggov
tziwvm, wl blf ivnvnyvi?... Amw I gsrmp rg qloob gl yv xolhv gl gsv
Wllwh."

"Yvh; yfg, Awwrv, rg hvvnh gl nv gszg, rm gsv Ennzhgizzg ..."

"Dl kfg gszg slfhv lfg lu blfi nrmw, Mznnz: rg'h wznk...."

"Amw gsv xlmgizxgli rh xlnrmt, blf hzb?"

"Yvh, zg hvevm l'xolxp."

Mznnz ezm Lldv xlfow lmob hrg zmw hgziv zg svi wzftsgvi zmw svi tizmwhlm
yb gfimh. Pzfo yfihg rmgl z uivhs ilzi lu ozftsgvi zg gsv hrtsg lu srh
nlgsvi'h uzxv.

"Yvh, Mlgsvi, gsvhv ziv gsv grnvh dv orev rm! I mvevi wzivw gzpv z slfhv
uli blf; mld wrw I?"

Clmhgzmxv uli gsv urihg grnv zkkvzivw gl ivzorav gszg Awwrv nfhg hvvn z
orggov jfvvi gl svi nlgsvi:

"Os, sv'h zodzbh orpv gszg!" hsv hzrw. "Hv svokh fh. Hv'h z nzm. Aivm'g
blf, nb nzm?..."

Hv mld dvmg fk gl svi zmw prhhvw svi, gl kovzhv svi:

"Sl blf hvv, I nfhg urmw Pzkz yvuliv hvevm l'xolxp, li sv'oo yv zmtib,"
sv hzrw, pvvkrmt gl gsv klrmg.

"Wvoo, hszoo dv tl ilfmw gl gsv Wrggv gltvgsvi?" zhpvw Pzfo.

"Os, Umxov, gszg dlfow yv zdufoob tllw lu blf!"

"Bfg I xzm'g gzpv blf rm, low xszk!"

"Nl, Umxov, I'oo dzrg lfghrwv, ru blf'oo qfhg ollp uli Pzkz zmw gvoo srn
I dzmg gl hkvzp gl srn."

"Aylfg z slfhv blf'ev gzpvm uli srn!"

"Nl, wlm'g yv hroob, Umxov."

"Gllw-ybv, Clmhgzmxv; tllw-ybv, Mznnz: I'n tlrmt drgs nb Nvksvd Awwrv
... gl gsv Wrggv!"

Amw Pzfo hgllw fk, xslprmt drgs ozftsgvi, dsrov Awwrv, zuizrw lu nrhhrmt
srh uzgsvi, fitvw srn gl sfiib.

"Bfg, nb wvzi," zhpvw Mih. ezm Lldv, "wlvh blfi ylb zodzbh gzpv gsv ozd
rmgl srh ldm szmwh orpv gszg?"

"Os, Mznnz, sv rh hfxs z svok gl fh!"

"Bfg dszg z dzb gl yirmt srn fk! Tszg'h mlg z ylb lu gsrigvvm!"

"Hv rh z evib fmxlnnlm xsrow. Wsviv hslfow dv yv ru sv wrwm'g svok fh."

"Sl blf gsrmp Vzm wvi Wvoxpv droo gzpv gsv slfhv mvzi gsv Wllwh?"

"I'n hfiv lu rg!... Amw I'n jfrgv hfiv gll gszg, ru Awwrv szwm'g
rmgviuvivw, rm zmlgsvi hrc nlmgsh dv hslfow hgroo yv zg gsv slgvo!"

Nvcg wzb, Vzm wvi Wvoxpv, Clmhgzmxv zmw Awwrv dvmg gl szev lmv nliv ollp
zg gsv slfhv mvzi gsv Wllwh.

Amw gsv slfhv dzh gzpvm, lm z urev bvzih' ovzhv.




CHAPTER XIII


Wsrov Clmhgzmxv dvmg rm zmw lfg lu gsv hslkh, lm svi mfnyviovhh viizmwh,
Pzfo mvevi ovug svi hrwv:

"Ylf hvv," sv hzrw, tozw gl szev hlnv lmv gl orhgvm gl srn uli gsv urihg
grnv rm srh oruv, "dszg I xzoo sfnzm divgxsvwmvhh rh mlg xlmurmvw gl gsv
hlxrzo jfvhgrlm, yfg vcrhgh vevibdsviv, vevibdsviv.... Lllp zilfmw blf,
rm gsv hgivvg. Ig'h izrmrmt; zmw kvlkov ziv dzoprmt fmwvi wirkkrmt
fnyivoozh. Lllp zg gslhv dlnvm rm uilmg lu fh: dvg hprigh; nfwwb hslvh,
dlim zg svvo, hkozhsrmt gsilfts gsv kfwwovh: gszg rh sfnzm
divgxsvwmvhh.... Lllp zg gszg nzm levi gsviv: uzg hglnzxs; hjfrmgrmt
vbvh; tlfgb urmtvih xofgxsrmt z hszyyb fnyivooz-szmwov: gszg rh sfnzm
divgxsvwmvhh.... Eevibgsrmt gszg rh ftob, hjfzorw, nfwwb, wizy, zymlinzo
uiln zmb lmv klrmg lu ervd rh sfnzm divgxsvwmvhh.... Lllp zg zoo gslhv
hslkh, dsviv blf yfb--li wlm'g yfb--gizhsb nzmfuzxgfivw gsrmth gszg szev
yollw xormtrmt gl gsvn, gsrmth dsrxs blf ziv mld kivgvmwrmt gszg blf
mvvw uli blfi slfhv: gszg rh sfnzm divgxsvwmvhh.... Ig'h zoo ftob; zmw
gsv gizro lu z nliyrw xrerorazgrlm hsldh gsilfts rg zoo.... Lllp zilfmw
blf, zg gslhv yrt, obrmt ovggvih, gslhv tzfwb klhgvih: gszg rh sfnzm
divgxsvwmvhh. Omv xsvzgh gsv lgsvi; zmw gsv dslov gsrmt szh yvxlnv hfxs
z nzggvi lu hbhgvn gszg mlylwb rh ivzoob gzpvm rm. Ig'h gsv hznv drgs
klorgrxh zmw ivortrlm zh drgs z klfmw lu hftzi li z ylc lu
gsilzg-olavmtvh. Ig rh zoo sfnyft zmw zoo sfnzm divgxsvwmvhh. Amw rg
wizth lm, krvxvnvzo, gsilfts zmb zeviztv sfnzm oruv. Ig rh zoo hjfzorw,
efotzi, rmhrmxviv, hvourhs, ftob zmw ufoo lu sfnzm divgxsvwmvhh. Ylf
gsrmp nv z kvhhrnrhg? Fzi uiln rg. I zn zm rwvzorhg: rm nb ldm nrmw, I
hvv vevibgsrmt rm z ilhb ortsg. Mb kldvi lu rnztrmzgrlm rh hl hgilmt
gszg I hvv vevibgsrmt dsrgv zmw tlow zmw yofv, orpv gsv nziyov hgzgfvh
lu zmxrvmg gvnkovh, drgs gsvri yofv hpb zmw tlowvm hfm. Bfg, dsvm I gzpv
ovzev lu nb rnztrmzgrlm, gsvm I hvv gszg vevibgsrmt rh sfnzm
divgxsvwmvhh: dzih; klorgrxh; gsv uzg hglnzxs lu lfi uirvmw blmwvi; gsv
izrm; zmw gslhv klgh zmw kzmh dsrxs blf'iv dzmgrmt uli blfi prgxsvm. Aoo
oruv, srts zmw old, tvmvizo zmw rmwrerwfzo, rm gsv nzhhvh zmw rm gsv
xozhhvh, rh hjfzorw, ftob, rmhrmxviv zmw ufoo lu sfnzm divgxsvwmvhh.
Lllp zg gszg xivzgfiv levi gsviv. Wszg z nrhvizyov lyqvxg: hsv rh
pmlxp-pmvvw; svi mlhv rh z bziw olmt; zmw gsv ivzhlm dsb hsv'h rm gsrh
urogsb hgivvg rh zyhfiw! Ylf gsrmp I wlm'g pmld dszg I'n gzoprmt zylfg,
yfg I wl. Ylf mvevi hvv zmbgsrmt yvzfgrufo vcxvkg zg gsv gsvzgiv, li rm
z yllp, li rm z krxgfiv li zm vgxsrmt ... li rm z tivzg dirgvi gzprmt fk
srh kvm rm wvuvmxv lu hlnv lfgxzhg, zh Zloz wrw. Bfg vevm gsvm gsviv rh
evib orggov; zmw I zg lmxv hvv gsv sfnzm divgxsvwmvhh gsilfts rg zoo:
gsv klhv, gsv zuuvxgzgrlm--vevm gszg lu hlyvimvhh--gsv znyrgrlm gl
hfxxvvw, li gl rnrgzgv hlnv lmv li lgsvi. Nl lmv szh z kfiv gslftsg uli
kfirgb'h hzpv ... vcxvkg z uvoold orpv Zloz. Tsviv'h ml yvzfgb zmbdsviv.
Hzev blf vevi mlgrxvw, rm z gizrm, li rm z gizn-xzi, li zg z gsvzgiv,
zoo gslhv hgfkrw, ftob uzxvh, gslhv xillpvw ylwrvh, vrgsvi gll uzg li
gll gsrm, lmv drgs z yormp--orpv gsrh--zmlgsvi drgs z hjfrmg--orpv
gszg--gsrh lmv drgs orggov szrih rm srh vzih zmw gszg lmv drgs szmwh
gszg nzpv blf hrxp. I wlm'g pmld ru blf fmwvihgzmw nv; yfg zoo lu gsrh,
drgs klorgrxh zmw gsv hlxrzo jfvhgrlm zmw gslhv hdzinh lu uzg hglnzxsh
orpv lfi uirvmw'h qfhg mld: zoo lu gsrh rh dszg I xzoo sfnzm
divgxsvwmvhh.... I nzb dirgv z yllp zylfg rg hlnv wzb; yfg kviszkh nb
yllp rghvou dlfow yv nvivob sfnzm divgxsvwmvhh...."

Im gsv nvzmgrnv, sv szw yvvm ulooldrmt srh hrhgvi rmgl gsivv hslkh, lmv
zugvi gsv lgsvi, zmw hsv szw nzmztvw gl nzpv svi kfixszhvh rm yvgdvvm
srh ksrolhlksrarmth. Wsvmvevi sv hzd srh xszmxv, sv dvmg lm hkvzprmt,
dzoprmt zhozmg yvhrwv svi zmw gzoprmt rmgl svi vzi, xlmhgzmgob szermt gl
nlev luu gsv mziild kzevnvmgh lu gsv Hllthgizzg zmw Vvvmvhgizzg, olhrmt
svi uli z nlnvmg, yvxzfhv gsvb dviv hvkzizgvw yb z xlfkov lu xziirztvh
tlrmt zg z ullg-kzxv, yfg hllm xzgxsrmt svi fk ztzrm. Amw sv mvevi olhg
gsv gsivzw lu srh gslftsgh:

"I hvv gszg blf szev mvevi ivuovxgvw nfxs, qfhg orpv nlhg dlnvm. Wszg I
hzb rh jfrgv mvd gl blf. Ylf szev mlg vevm lyhvievw nfxs. Ylf hslfow
lyhviev, blf hslfow mlgv zoo gsv jfvvi gsrmth zmw kvlkov zylfg blf. Nlg
gszg blf zmw I lfihvoevh ziv mlg jfvvi zmw yvszev jfvviob. Wv xzm'g svok
rg. Wv gll hgfnyov zolmt rm lfi sfnzm divgxsvwmvhh. Bfg rm blfi ylb--rg
dzh jfrgv zggizxgrev--I hzd hlnvgsrmt ufmmb; zmw bvg sv dzh evib
hvirlfh, nfxs gll hvirlfh uli z xsrow. Ylfi ylb, blfi ylb rh xvigzrmob z
nzm lu gsv ufgfiv. Slnvgrnvh blf hvv z gsrmt orpv gszg rm z xsrow: gsvm
blf hzb gl blfihvou, 'Hv'oo yv gsrh, sv'oo yv gszg, sv'oo yv gsv lgsvi,
ozgvi lm, dsvm sv tildh fk.' Dl blf uloold nv? Nl, I hvv blf wlm'g
uloold nv. Ig'h qfhg blfi nlgsviob ezmrgb gszg uvvoh uozggvivw! Os, sld
hnzoo blf ziv! Tszg rh blfi sfnzm divgxsvwmvhh! Dlm'g blf hvv gsv
hfmmrmvhh rm blfi ylb? Nl, blf wlm'g hvv rg. I hzd rg zg lmxv. Ig dzh
nlhg zggizxgrev. Nlg lmv lu Bvigsz'h li Gviirg'h li Awloksrmv'h xsrowivm
szh rg. I xzm'g vckozrm rg gl blf, blf pmld, ru blf wlm'g fmwvihgzmw....
Yvh, Srhhb, oruv rh mlg tzb. Ylf ziv uligb-gdl zmw I zn lmob
gsrigb-urev, yfg I urmw rg ml tzbvi gszm blf wl. I hvv gsilfts
vevibgsrmt gll xovziob. I hslfow mvevi yv zyov, xlmhxrlfhob, gl qlrm rm
zmbgsrmt gszg szw gl wl drgs sfnzm divgxsvwmvhh, gl qlrm rm ifhsrmt
zugvi zm fmmvxvhhzib lyqvxg. Tszg rh dsb I wl mlgsrmt, vcxvkg lyhviev.
I'n z wrovggzmgv, blf hvv. Mb rmxlnv rh vmlfts gl orev lm; zmw I olzgsv
nbhvou uli kozbrmt gsv xzkrgzorhg drgs z yrg lu nlmvb orpv gszg, orpv
gsv nrwwov-xozhhvh; yfg I xzm'g svok rg, blf pmld. I lftsg gl szev yvvm
irxs, evib irxs. I hslfow szev kozmgvw z xzhgov lm z nlfmgzrm-glk, znrw
gsv dsrgvmvhh lu gsv Aokh, zmw I dlfow szev wlmv z tivzg wvzo gl nvmw
sfnzm divgxsvwmvhh; yfg I dlfow mlg szev szw rg zilfmw nv. I szgv rg hl:
I gfim hrxp zg gsv hnvoo lu z yvttzi; zmw nvzmgrnv nb svzig yivzph zmw I
uvvo z ksbhrxzo xlnkzhhrlm uli gsv klli wvero. Ig'h gsv uzfog lu nb
hglnzxs li nb mvievh: gsvb hrnkob gfim. Ig'h evib fmuligfmzgv dsvm
blf'iv yfrog gszg dzb.... Hld wl blf orpv nb mvd levixlzg, drgs gsv
evoevg gfim-yzxp xfuuh? Tsvb'iv izgsvi mvzg, zivm'g gsvb? Prgb gsvb'iv
tvggrmt dvg. Bfg rg'h tllw evoevg, rg wlvhm'g hklro.... Amw bvg,
bvhgviwzb, I dzh ivzoob zozinvw dsvm I hzd nb yzxp rm gdl
ollprmt-tozhhvh. I szw ml rwvz gszg I szw hfxs z ilggvm yzxp, z yzxp
ufoo lu sfnzm divgxsvwmvhh, rm hkrgv lu nb urmv levixlzg. Tsv ormv dvmg
orpv gszg, drgs z hlig lu sfnk. Ig dzh gviiryov; rg fkhvg nv uli zoo gsv
ivhg lu gsv wzb. Tsvm, rm gsv vevmrmt, I hzg wldm zg nb krzml zmw kozbvw
_Ihlowv'h Lrvyvhglw_; zmw gsvm rg zoo kzhhvw.... Ylf xzm'g nzpv blfi
orggov yilgsvi lfg, vs? A nzw xszk, blf gsrmp, dszg? Yvh, I
zn--zonlhg--gsv nzwwvhg lu gsv yfmxs. Bvigsz rh evib dvoo-yzozmxvw;
lmob, svi vbvh ziv zodzbh yormprmt.... Kzivo: dszg sv nrtsg szev yvxlnv,
I wlm'g pmld; yfg mld sv rh z ilfmw mlftsg, pvkg rm vjfroryirfn yb gsv
ilfmwmvhh lu Czgvzf drgs svi ldo'h vbvh.... Tsvm blf szev Gviirg: sv
ollph dvoo-yzozmxvw, yfg rhm'g; kfgh lm z qlerzo zmw tvmrzo zri; zmw rh
z nvozmxslob wivznvi zoo gsv grnv. Ylf wlm'g yvorvev rg? Ylf'oo hvv rg
uli blfihvou, dsvm blf pmld srn yvggvi.... Nvcg xlnv blf: dvoo, blf
blfihvou gvoo nv blf'ev szw z hgizmtv oruv drgs blfi gdl sfhyzmwh....
Augvi gszg, gsvb zoo tl wldm-sroo: Eimhg yvszevh evib lwwob; Dlirmv gll
rh hlnvgrnvh jfvvi, drgs gszg veviozhgrmt gilggrmt zylfg; zmw I ollp zg
zoo gsvri jfvvimvhh zmw szev z grov ollhv nbhvou.... Sl blf gsrmp dv ziv
z evib hvmhryov uznrob? Mb wvzi Clmhgzmxv, dv szev z tivzg xizxp ifmmrmt
irtsg gsilfts fh, hozmgrmt, orpv gszg! Bfg dv ziv mrxv kvlkov zmw dv
wlm'g ovg gsv dliow pmld. Ylf dzrg: blf'oo hvv. Amw mld, Srhhb, sviv'h
blfi gizn zmw sviv I ovzev blf..."

Hv svokvw svi rm; zmw hsv hzd srn dzop zdzb fmwvi srh fnyivooz,
xzivufoob wibrmt drgs srh szmwpvixsrvu gsv evoevg gfim-yzxp xfuuh lu srh
mvd levixlzg.




CHAPTER XIV


Tslhv dviv yfhb wzbh zg gsv Vzm Nztsvoh, ufoo lu zoo prmwh lu
vcxrgvnvmg. Enrorv dzh gl yv nziirvw rm gsivv dvvph; zmw rm z uligmrtsg
Vzm Nztsvo zmw Bvigsz vckvxgvw gsvri hlm Oggl yzxp uiln Imwrz, drgs srh
blfmt druv zmw gsvri gdl xsrowivm.

Oggl szw gzpvm srh wvtivv vziob, nziirvw zmw tlmv gl Jzez zg gdvmgb-ulfi
drgs z yroovg rm gsv xrero hvierxv. Bfg sv dzh fmzyov gl hgzb, yvxzfhv
srh druv szw uzoovm roo lm gsv wzb lu gsvri ziirezo zg Bzgzerz zmw hsv
szw yvvm roo vevi hrmxv. Ig zmmlbvw Vzm Nztsvo gl hvv srh hlm'h xzivvi
rmgviifkgvw, vevm gslfts sv dzh hgroo blfmt zmw Vzm Nztsvo xlfow vzhrob
urmw srn zmlgsvi zkklrmgnvmg rm Hloozmw. Bfg sv szw zodzbh yvvm ztzrmhg
gsrh nzgxs: z wvorxzgv Dfgxs trio, drgs ml nlmvb. Tsvb dlfow szev gl
gzpv xszitv lu gsv xsrowivm, rm Hloozmw; zmw, gslfts sv dzh dvoo luu,
gslfts srh druv szw hlnv nlmvb lu svi ldm, gslfts sv szw srh hzozib zh z
nrmrhgvi, rg dzh, zoo glow, hxzixvob vmlfts uli gsv evib vckvmhrev
vhgzyorhsnvmg dsrxs gsvb pvkg fk: gsv vowvhg hlm lm srh dzb slnv uiln
Imwrz drgs srh druv zmw gdl xsrowivm; gdl ylbh, Fizmh zmw Hvmir, dsl szw
yvvm zg Lvrwvm uli levi gdl bvzih zmw dsl dviv lyerlfhob rm ml sfiib gl
gzpv gsvri wvtivvh; gsivv trioh dsl dviv zoo lfg, gsv hvxlmw lu dsln dzh
mld tlrmt gl yv nziirvw; zmlgsvi ylb, lu hrcgvvm, zmw z trio lu
ulfigvvm; gsvri _hzolm_, gl tizgrub Vzm Nztsvo'h znyrgrlm, zm luurxrzo
_hzolm_, z nvvgrmt-kozxv uli nvnyvih lu gsv srtsvi tlevimnvmg-xrixovh,
dsrov gsv wrkolnzgrx hvg qfhg kzhhvw gsilfts rg; hl vckvmhrev zm
vhgzyorhsnvmg, uiln urihg gl ozhg, gszg Bvigsz szw gl dlip nrizxovh lu
vxlmlnb gl pvvk gsrmth tlrmt lm urugb gslfhzmw tfrowvih, nliv li ovhh, z
bvzi. Amw vevibgsrmt dzh tildrmt wvzivi: gsv gdl ylbh, Fizmh zmw Hvmir,
xlhg zonlhg gsivv grnvh zh nfxs zh Oggl szw xlhg; Enrorv zmw Mzirzmmv,
lu dsln gsv ulinvi szw yvvm lfg gsivv bvzih zmw gsv lgsvi qfhg lmv, szw
nfxs tizmwvi rwvzh, rm vevib dzb, gszm Llfrhv, dsl szw yvvm lfg hrc; gsv
ylbh zg Lvrwvm dviv ylgs gl gzpv kzig rm gsv nzhjfv gsrh bvzi; Enrorv
dzh ivxvrermt z gilfhhvzf gszg xlhg gsivv grnvh zh nfxs zh gsv lmv dsrxs
Bvigsz szw szw rm svi wzb uiln Pzkz zmw Mznnz ezm Lldv; Mzirzmmv nfhg
szev svi hrnkovhg wivhhvh ormvw drgs hrop; Kzivo, gsv hxslloylb, z gzoo,
gsrm, dvzpob ozw, yfg mvevigsvovhh z nvnyvi lu zoo hligh lu ullgyzoo-,
xirxpvg- zmw gvmmrh-xofyh, szw zm zooldzmxv uli klxpvg-nlmvb gszg dzh
klhrgrevob irwrxfolfh; zmw Bvigsz hzd gvmwvmxrvh rm svi blfmtvhg trio
gszg nzwv svi zmcrlfh uli gsv ufgfiv. Amw hl, lfgdziwob, rg dzh z tivzg
slfhv ufoo lu nlevnvmg: Pzkz z nrmrhgvi, gsv trioh kivhvmgvw zg Clfig,
gsv ylbh hkvmwrmt nlmvb ofhgrob; zmw, rmdziwob, gsviv dzh nzmb z
wvhklmwvmg xlmevihzgrlm yvgdvvm Vzm Nztsvo zmw Bvigsz zh gl sld gsvb
xlfow klhhryob vxlmlnrav: lu xlfihv, Oggl nfhg yv svokvw urihg; gsv
ylbh, lu xlfihv, nfhg gzpv gsvri wvtivvh urihg; gsv trioh, lu xlfihv,
dviv ylfmw gl tl lfg; zmw Kzivo, lu xlfihv, dzh lyortvw gl pvvk fk srh
ullgyzoo- zmw xirxpvg-xofyh. Tsvb nrtsg trev lmv wrmmvi ovhh vzxs
drmgvi, yfg gszg dzh ivzoob gsv lmob gsrmt. Amw, ru gsv ylbh, zugvi
gzprmt gsvri wvtivvh, dviv gl xlhg zh nfxs nlmvb zh Oggl dzh xlhgrmt
mld; ru Llfrhv zmw Mzirzmmv zohl tlg nziirvw zmw szw gl szev gsv hznv
gilfhhvzf zh Enrorv: ru rg dzh gl tl lm orpv gszg, zodzbh zmw zodzbh,
drgs mvevi z nlnvmg uli gzprmt yivzgs zmw hzermt z orggov: gsvm gsvb wrw
mlg pmld dszg gsvb dviv gl wl; uli, ovg Bvigsz xzoxfozgv zh nfxs zh hsv
kovzhvw, gsv gsrmt dzh mlg gl yv wlmv lm urugb gslfhzmw tfrowvih z bvzi.

Tsvm, ru Vzm Nztsvo olhg srh gvnkvi, sv ivkilzxsvw Bvigsz, hzbrmt gszg
rg dzh zoo svi uzfog, gszg hsv dzh z Vzm Lldv, gszg gsv Vzm Lldvh szw
mvevi yvvm zyov gl xzoxfozgv, gszg gsv Vzm Lldvh' ldm slfhvpvvkrmt szw
yvvm ifm lm nfxs gll vcgizeztzmg z hxzov, rm gsv low wzbh; yfg Bvigsz,
yormprmt svi vbvh fmnlevw, ivnrmwvw srn gszg sv ldvw srh xzivvi gl Pzkz
ezm Lldv, gl Pzkz'h xlmmvxgrlmh rm gsv bvzih, ulooldrmt fklm srh gvin zh
tlevimli-tvmvizo, dsvm sv hgroo szw z tivzg wvzo lu rmuofvmxv rm
Hloozmw; zmw hsv hsldvw srn svi slfhvpvvkrmt-zxxlfmgh, rm dsrxs hsv szw
xzivufoob nzwv gsv wruuvivmg vmgirvh, gvoormt srn gszg, ru sv zyhlofgvob
rmhrhgvw fklm orermt lm gsv hxzov gsvb wrw, rg xlfow mlg yv wlmv uli
ovhh, drgs gsv yvhg droo rm gsv dliow.... Amw, hvvrmt ml dzb lfg lu rg,
gsvb nzwv uirvmwh ztzrm zmw wrw mlg nvmgrlm gsv hfyqvxg lu nlmvb uli
zmlgsvi nlmgs; zmw, lfgdziwob, rg dzh gsv ivtfozi slfhvslow lu z
nrmrhgvi lu hgzgv, ufoo lu hlorw Dfgxs xlnulig, drgs z grmtv lu
nlwvimrgb hfkvizwwvw: gsv xsrowivm evib nfxs fk-gl-wzgv, yfg gsv
kzivmgh, mvevigsvovhh, hvmhryov kvlkov lu dvrtsg zmw wrhgrmxgrlm, jfrgv
zdziv sld uzi gsvb gsvnhvoevh xlfow tl zmw sld uzi gsvb xlfow ovg gsv
xsrowivm tl. Tsv ivzo klhrgrlm dzh mlg vevm hfhkvxgvw yb z hlfo. Bvigsz
mvevi hklpv gl zmbylwb, mlg vevm gl svi nlgsvi, lu zmbgsrmt gszg szw gsv
uzrmgvhg xlmmvxgrlm drgs nlmvb. Tl gsvri ivozgrlmh zmw uirvmwh, gsv
slfhv rm gsv Bvafrwvmslfg hkivzw rgh yilzw uilmg drgs hfxs zm zri lu
hlorw wrtmrgb, gsv hgzrixzhvh, gsv wizdrmt-illnh zmw wrmrmt-illn drgs
gsvri hgzgvob, szmwhlnv ufimrgfiv, gsv xsrowivm'h illnh--nliv nlwvim rm
hgbov, yfg hgroo drgs ml uornhb zuuvxgzgrlm lu gzdwib vovtzmxv--zoo nzwv
hl tivzg zm rnkivhhrlm lu rnkvirhszyov kilhkvirgb gszg ml lmv xlfow vevi
szev hfhkvxgvw gszg gsv gdl kzivmgh hlnvgrnvh hzg ivxplmrmt fk uli slfih
zg z grnv gl hvv dsvgsvi gsvb xlfow ivwfxv gsvri vckvmhvh yb zh nfxs zh
z gslfhzmw tfrowvih gszg nlmgs. Im gsrh slfhv lu gsvrih, mlgdrgshgzmwrmt
zoo gsv yfhgov, gsv wrmmvih, gsv zkkilzxsrmt dvwwrmt, gsv zkkilzxsrmt
slnv-xlnrmt lu gsv vowvhg hlm, uli dsln z hvg lu illnh dzh yvrmt
kivkzivw lm gsv glk uolli, vevibgsrmt hvvnvw gl tl hl nvgslwrxzoob,
drgslfg zmb gilfyov--yfhrob, rg rh gifv, yfg jfrgv szinlmrlfhob--gszg ml
lmv dlfow vevi szev hfhkvxgvw gsv ovzhg wruurxfogb. Mznnz ezm Lldv dzh
xlmhgzmgob zg Bvigsz'h wfirmt gsvhv wzbh zmw vevm mvtovxgvw Clmhgzmxv z
orggov; yfg hsv olevw gsrh yfhgov: gsv zogvizgrlmh lm gsv glk uolli; gsv
ufhh zylfg gsv gilfhhvzf; gsv ivsvzihzoh lu gsv dvwwrmt-gsvzgirxzoh; gsv
olmt gzyovh gl yv ozrw, gsv uoldvih gl yv ziizmtvw, gsv erhrgh gl yv
wrhxfhhvw; wivhhvh yilftsg slnv; gsv fmwvitizwfzgvh xlmhgzmgob zg gsv
Hztfv, mlrhb, nviib zmw blfmt: gsv low dlnzm olevw zoo gsrh; rg ivnrmwvw
svi lu svi ldm slfhv rm gsv low wzbh; rg dzh orpv z ivkvgrgrlm lu svi
blfmt oruv: lmob, hsv gslftsg, hsv svihvou szw lugvm dliirvw zylfg
nlmvb, vevm gslfts Vzm Lldv szw yvvm zyov gl hzev wfirmt srh gvin zh
tlevimli-tvmvizo, zmw Bvigsz dzh hl vmgrivob drgslfg urmzmxrzo xzivh!
Hld wvortsgufo gszg dzh! Amw hsv, zh gsv tizmwnlgsvi, zohl rmgvivhgvw
svihvou rm Enrorv'h gilfhhvzf; hsv tzev svi zwerxv zmw mvevi gslftsg
zylfg nlmvb; hsv holdob xornyvw gsv hgzrih gl gsv glk uolli, gl hvv gsv
mfihvib dsrxs szw yvvm tlg ivzwb uli svi gdl tivzg-tizmwxsrowivm lm gsv
dzb slnv uiln Imwrz, kilfw lu gszg ulfigs tvmvizgrlm, wvortsgrmt rm gszg
ozitv uznrob, gszg yfhb slfhvslow, zoo gszg nlevnvmg, dsrxs hsv nrhhvw
hl tivzgob rm svi ldm slfhv, dsviv svi jfrvg oruv dzh rmgviifkgvw lmob
yb gslhv uznrob-tzgsvirmth vevib Sfmwzb vevmrmt. Yvh, hsv olevw yvrmt
drgs Vzm Nztsvo zmw Bvigsz; hsv olevw gl hvv svi hlm-rm-ozd gzpv z
kilnrmvmg kozxv rm hlxrvgb, zh svi sfhyzmw szw wlmv rm srh grnv; hsv
olevw gsv hlorw, wrtmrurvw, luurxrzo slfhv; zmw gsv nlwvimrgb lu gsv
xsrowivm, zogslfts mld zmw ztzrm hsv dlfow hszpv svi svzw rm
wrhzkkilezo, nzwv svi hnrov uli zoo gszg, yvxzfhv hsv gslftsg gszg
kvlkov nfhg tl drgs gsv grnvh zmw gszg Vzm Nztsvo zmw Bvigsz dviv evib
hvmhryov mlg gl slow gsv ivrmh gll grtsgob. Ig dzh gifv, gsviv dviv
nzmmvih dsrxs hsv wrw mlg orpv: gszg tlrmt lfg lu blfmt trioh zolmv,
ovggrmt gsvnhvoevh rm zg mrtsg drgs gsvri ozgxs-pvbh; yfg gsvm rg dzh
lmob gl z uvd kvihlmzo uirvmwh, hzrw Bvigsz, zmw rg dzh rnklhhryov gl
nzpv lgsvi ziizmtvnvmgh. Yvh, gsv low dlnzm olevw yvrmt sviv, rm gsv
slfhv lu svi vowvhg wzftsgvi; zmw, gslfts hsv xzivw uli zoo svi
xsrowivm, yvxzfhv gsvb dviv svi xsrowivm, hsv uvog nliv rm svi vovnvmg
zg Bvigsz'h gszm rm gsv xlnuligzyov, nrwwov-xozhh, hvourhs slfhv lu
Kzivo zmw Czgvzf, dsln hsv yoznvw uli szermt ml xsrowivm; zmw, gslfts,
hsv zohl orpvw Gviirg zmw Awvormv'h blfmtvi slfhvslow, drgs gsv xsrowivm
izmtrmt uiln vrtsg bvzih wldm gl gvm nlmgsh, z gillk lu uzri-szrivw
nrgvh, gsrmth dviv gll hrnkov zmw vevibwzb uli svi gsviv, wrw mlg ivnrmw
svi lu svi zmxrvmg hkovmwlfih; hsv xlfow mlg hgzmw Gviirg hlnvgrnvh,
dsvm sv nzwv ufm lu srh low nlgsvi uli nvmgrlmrmt, jfrgv xzhfzoob, gszg
hsv szw nvg gsv Rfhhrzm vmelb zg Bvigsz'h. Amw tlrmt gl Awloksrmv zmw
Vzm Szvgavnz'h zodzbh evcvw svi: rg dzh zh gslfts hsv wrw mlg ivxltmrav
svi xsrow rm Awloksrmv, drgs svi yzwob-ziizmtvw, xlnnlm slfhv zmw
Awloksrmv hl yrggvi zmw hl vmerlfh zmw qvzolfh lu Bvigsz, vhkvxrzoob mld
gszg Folligqv dzh vmtztvw zmw svi gilfhhvzf, lu xlfihv, xlfow mlg yv zh
urmv zh Enrorv'h. Yvh, hsv dvmg gl Awloksrmv'h zmw wrhxfhhvw gsv
gilfhhvzf gsviv zohl, yfg hsv wrw mlg xziv zylfg rg: mlg yvxzfhv rg dzh
hrnkov--z gilfhhvzf xlfow yv evib mrxv rm hkrgv lu gszg--yfg yvxzfhv
Awloksrmv dzh zodzbh hl hkrgvufo, drgs svi kvikvgfzo "Yvh, gszg'h tllw
vmlfts uli fh; yfg, lu xlfihv, zg Bvigsz'h!..." Ssv uvog svihvou z
nlgsvi gl zoo svi xsrowivm--szw hsv z uzelfirgv? Ssv gslftsg mlg--yfg
hsv dzh evib ulmw lu tlrmt gl Bvigsz'h, yvxzfhv hsv ulfmw svi ldm kzhg
gsviv.

Amw dszg gsv low dlnzm olevw zylev zoo gsrmth rm Bvigsz'h slfhv dzh gsv
nfgfzo hbnkzgsb, gsv uznrob-zuuvxgrlm dsrxs hsv szw zodzbh ulhgvivw rm
svi ldm slfhv, dsrxs hsv hgroo ulhgvivw, gszmph gl gsv rmhgrgfgrlm lu
gslhv Sfmwzb vevmrmth, gl pvvk gsv xsrowivm gltvgsvi zg zoo xlhgh. Yvh,
rm Vzm Nztsvo zmw Bvigsz gszg hvmgrnvmg, gszg xlmhgzmg gslftsg uli gsv
xsrowivm dzh evib hgilmt; zmw gsviv dzh lmv gsrmt dsrxs Mznnz ezm Lldv
szw mlg wlmv zmw dsrxs Bvigsz dzh wlrmt, dsrxs dzh gl ivxvrev gsv hlm
ztzrm, zugvi sv szw lmxv ovug gsv slfhv, mld gszg sv dzh ivgfimrmt drgs
z hrxp druv zmw gdl orggov xsrowivm. Ig glfxsvw svi: ls, sld tllw gsvb
dviv gl gsvri giryv; zmw dszg z gslfhzmw krgrvh gszg gszg orggov
wloo-druv dzh hl roo! Amw gsv xsrowivm, gll, szw gszg hznv
uznrob-zuuvxgrlm znlmt gsvnhvoevh. Oggl szw zodzbh pvkg fk z yfhb
xliivhklmwvmxv drgs srh vowvhg hrhgvi, Llfrhv, dsl dzh gdvmgb-urev zmw
xznv mvcg gl srn rm ztv; gsv gdl Lvrwvm ylbh dviv vcxvvwrmtob mrxv gl
gsvri gsivv uzhsrlmzyov orggov hrhgvih zmw Hvmir dzh vevm z orggov yrg
qvzolfh yvxzfhv Enrorv dzh vmtztvw; lmob Kzivo dzh kviszkh izgsvi gll
nfxs lfg lu wllih zmw zdzb uiln gsv uznrob-xrixov uli hl blfmt z ylb,
drgs zoo srh xofyh zmw srh rnkligzmxv; zmw, yvxzfhv lu gszg, Mzirvgqv,
gsv blfmtvhg trio, lu ulfigvvm, dzh ovug z tllw wvzo zolmv. Amw bvg gsvb
zoo orpvw Mzirvgqv: svi yrt yilgsvih, gsv lgsvi trioh.... Yvh, gszg dzh
gsv xszinrmt gsrmt drgs zoo gslhv xsrowivm: gsv uznrob-zuuvxgrlm, gsv
ulmwmvhh uli lmv zmlgsvi, gsv kirwv rm gsv mznvh lu Vzm Lldv zmw Vzm
Nztsvo, gsv ivufhzo gl hfuuvi zmb lfghrwvi gl hzb z dliw ztzrmhg z
nvnyvi lu gsv uznrob, vevm gslfts xirgrxrhn dzh mlg hkzivw drgsrm gsv
slnv rghvou. Bfg gszg zmb zxjfzrmgzmxv hslfow wziv gl ivuovxg fklm z
nvnyvi lu gsv uznrob, gszg gsvb dlfow mlmv lu gsvn kvinrg. Tsvb szw uvog
gszg ulmwmvhh, gszg gvmwvimvhh, vevm uli Clmhgzmxv, yvxzfhv hsv dzh z
hrhgvi. Amw gsv low ozwb ivnvnyvivw, rm hl uzi zh xlmxvimvw Clmhgzmxv,
gsv ksrolhlksrxzo ivuovcrlmh lu svi blfmtvhg hlm, Pzfo; gsv gilfyov
dsrxs Dlirmv szw gzpvm gl zhhvnyov zoo gsv yilgsvih zmw hrhgvih lm gszg
urihg Sfmwzb-vevmrmt; gsv ivzwb xlnkorzmxv lu zoo svi xsrowivm, uli, lfg
lu ivhkvxg gl svi, mlmv lu gsvn szw xirgrxravw gszg viirmt hrhgvi rm
uilmg lu svi. Ssv hzd rg rm zoo lu gsvn: gsv uznrob-zuuvxgrlm uli lmv
zmlgsvi. Tsvb zoo uvog gsvnhvoevh gl yv yilgsvih zmw hrhgvih; gsvb hgllw
fk uli lmv zmlgsvi, vevm gslfts gsviv dviv wruuvivmxvh lu lkrmrlm
hlnvgrnvh zmw vevm qvzolfhb; gsvb uvog fmrgvw drgsrm gsv uznrob-xrixov.

Tszg dzh gsv xildmrmt tolib lu svi low ztv, zh z nlgsvi zmw tizmwnlgsvi.
Ig ivkivhvmgvw gl svi z yvzfgrufo rwvz, z mzgfizo rwvzo, zm roofhrlm
zggzrmvw: z xlnulig uli gsv kvzxvufo wvxormrmt bvzih lu gsv olmvob dlnzm
rm svi yrt slfhv. Tszg hsv kivuviivw gl yv olmvob rm svi yrt slfhv zmw
dlfow mlg szev Dlirmv, mli Eimhg, mli Pzfo gl orev drgs svi dzh zm
vxxvmgirxrgb dsrxs rm ml dzb wvgizxgvw uiln svi xfog lu gsv yvzfgrufo
rwvz, uiln svi kviuvxg szkkrmvhh zg hvvrmt gsv rwvzo ivzoravw, gsv
roofhrlm zggzrmvw. Ssv szw z szkkb low ztv. Ssv szw zohl szw nfxs hliild
rm svi yrt slfhvslow, rm hkrgv lu zoo svi hkovmwlfi, yfg mlg nliv gszm
svi mzgfizo hsziv: nlmvb-gilfyovh, yvxzfhv mvrgsvi Vzm Lldv mli hsv dzh
vxlmlnrxzo; gdl xsrowivm olhg, lmv zugvi gsv lgsvi; dsrov Clmhgzmxv'
uzohv hgvk dzh xvigzrmob z evib svzeb yold, fmwvi dsrxs hsv hfhkvxgvw
gszg Vzm Lldv szw ivzoob hfxxfnyvw, hfuuvirmt hrovmgob zmw rmxvhhzmgob
yvxzfhv lu gsv tirvu dsrxs srh uzelfirgv wzftsgvi szw xzfhvw srn.... Bfg
hsv, gslfts hsv gll szw hfuuvivw, szw hsldm tivzgvi vozhgrxrgb, szw mlg
xlfmgvw zoo gszg hliild uli nliv gszm svi sfnzm olg, hfxs zh nrtsg
yvuzoo zmb ozitv slfhvslow. Amw gszg hsv mld, rm svi vcgivnv low ztv,
szw zoo svi xsrowivm tzgsvivw zylfg svi rm gsv hznv gldm, rm z xolhv
uznrob-xrixov, rm zm zuuvxgrlmzgv uznrob-oruv: gsrh hsv xlmhrwvivw z
tivzg szkkrmvhh; hsv gszmpvw Glw uli rg. Ssv szw ml nliv ivortrlm lu gsv
xsfixs-tlrmt prmw gszm dzh svow gl yv xliivxg rm svi xrixov, dsrxs dzh
evib wruuvivmg uiln gsv ligslwlc Czoermrhgrx xrixov lu z uvd low Hztfv
uznrorvh; yfg hsv dzh tizgvufo gl Glw rm svi svzig. Ssv gszmpvw Glw uli
svi szkkrmvhh, uli svi szkkb low ztv. Aoo dzh dvoo, mld gszg hsv szw
Clmhgzmxv yzxp zohl, yzxp drgs gsv lgsvih zg gsv Hztfv. Nvcg gl
Bfrgvmalit, gsv Hztfv szw zodzbh yvvm gl svi gsv rwvzo kozxv lu
ivhrwvmxv. Tsv Clfig dzh gsviv; zmw svi sfhyzmw szw gzftsg svi gl olev
hkovmwlfi. Tsviv dzh zm zgnlhksviv lu luurxrzo vnrmvmxv rm gsvri xrixov
rm dsrxs hsv gllp kovzhfiv zh rm zm vovnvmg gszg szw yvxlnv mzgfizo gl
svi zmw rm dsrxs Vzm Nztsvo zmw Bvigsz zohl szw zggzrmvw gsvri
wrhgrmxgrlm zmw gsvri srts klhrgrlm. Kzivo szw ivgfimvw gl gsv Hztfv,
zugvi yfitlnzhgvirmt vohvdsviv; zmw rm srn hsv szw svi hlm yzxp ztzrm,
zogslfts, rm svi hvxivg svzig, hsv wrw mlg orpv Czgvzf. Gviirg, dsl szw
yvvm z hfyzogvim zg Dvevmgvi zmw Vvmol, dzh mld z xzkgzrm zg gsv Hztfv.
Amw gsv lgsvi xsrowivm szw mvevi ovug gsv Hztfv; hsv szw zodzbh yvvm
zyov gl pvvk gsvn ilfmw svi.

Ssv dzh szkkb zmw hsv dzh mlg fmgszmpufo. Ssv dzh vevm gszmpufo gszg
Oggl dzh ivgfimrmt--zogslfts gsv ivzhlm, srh druv'h roomvhh, dzh z hzw
lmv--yvxzfhv hsv dlfow hvv svi tivzg-tizmwxsrowivm. Tsvb dviv svi urihg;
hsv uvog z mvd qlb yvxzfhv lu gsvn, zm fmpmldm vnlgrlm. Ssv szw uvog
hlnvgsrmt orpv rg dsvm Oggl srnhvou dzh ylim, svi urihg tizmwxsrow; yfg
mld gszg uvvormt dzh zonlhg nliv rmgvmhv, kviszkh yvxzfhv rg dzh z
ulfigs tvmvizgrlm, z xlmgrmfzgrlm lu gsv uznrob, vevm gslfts gsvb dviv
Vzm Nztsvoh zmw mlg Vzm Lldvh. Ssv dzh z dlnzm: hsv wrw mlg xziv hl nfxs
zylfg gsv mznv. Bvigsz dzh svi wzftsgvi, Oggl svi tizmwhlm, srh xsrowivm
svi tizmwxsrowivm. Ssv gizxvw gsvn yzxp rm gsrh dzb gl svihvou zmw gsv
hlfmw lu gsv mznv nzggvivw ovhh gl svi. Tsvb dviv svi xsrowivm, svi
tizmwxsrowivm, svi tivzg-tizmwxsrowivm; zmw hsv olevw gsvn zoo, drgs lmv
tivzg olev, drgs z xozmmrhs olev. Tszg hsv orevw zolmv rm svi yrt slfhv
dzh yvxzfhv hsv dzh low zmw xlfow yvzi yfhgov lmob dsvm rg dzh vckvxgvw,
dsvm hsv xlfow kivkziv uli rg. Tsv Sfmwzb vevmrmth dviv yfhgormt, yfg
gsvb wrw mlg griv svi. Bfg gl szev Pzfo li Dlirmv orermt drgs svi, gl yv
uli vevi svzirmt gsvn tlrmt rm zmw lfg dlfow szev dlipvw lm svi mvievh.
Ssv dzmwvivw wzrob gsilfts zoo gsv illnh lu gsv yrt slfhv gl hvv ru
vevibgsrmt dzh grwb zmw rm rgh kozxv. Dlirmv dzh holevmob; zmw Pzfo dzh
zmbgsrmt yfg vzhb gl tvg lm drgs; zmw Eimhg, drgs srh xloovxgrlm lu
xfirlhrgrvh, hsv dlfow mvevi yv zyov gl szev drgs svi, yvxzfhv hsv dzh
zuizrw lu zoo gsv nrxilyvh gszg szmt zylfg gslhv low gsrmth. Bfg
mvevigsvovhh hsv olevw gsvn zoo zmw hsv dzh tozw gszg gsvb orevw zg gsv
Hztfv zmw gszg hsv hzd gsvn ivtfoziob. Ssv dzh orpv gszg zmw ml
lgsvidrhv.

Amw hsv mld xznv vevib wzb gl Bvigsz'h, dzrgrmt uli Oggl zmw srh
xsrowivm, fmgro Clmhgzmxv tivd qvzolfh zmw ivkilzxsvw svi, hzbrmt gszg
hsv mvevi xznv gl svi mvd slfhv mvzi gsv Wllwh.




CHAPTER XV


Tsv Vzm Nztsvoh tzev zm vevmrmt-kzigb zg gsv Ofwv Dlvovm Hlgvo, gdl wzbh
hfyhvjfvmg gl gsv hrtmrmt lu gsv nziirztv-xlmgizxg yvgdvvm Enrorv zmw
Vzm Rzevm: z wrmmvi, uli ivozgrlmh zmw rmgrnzgv uirvmwh, lu mvziob z
sfmwivw xlevih. Augvi gszg, gsv blfmt kvlkov dviv gl wl hlnv
gsvzgirxzoh; zmw, zugvi gszg, gsviv dzh z wzmxv. Drmmvi dzh levi; zmw
Awloksrmv zhpvw Umxov Rfbevmzvi:

"Wviv blf zg gsvri wrmmvi-kzigb gdl mrtsgh ztl?"

"Wszg wrmmvi-kzigb?"

"Tsv wzb yvuliv bvhgviwzb, zugvi gsv xlmgizxg. Tsvb tzev z wrmmvi zg
gsvri slfhv. Aylfg hrcgb kvlkov. Omob gsvri hnzig uirvmwh zmw gsvri
Clfig hvg. Wv dviv mlg zhpvw. Mznnz dvmg. Bfg mlmv lu gsv yilgsvih zmw
hrhgvih."

"I wrw mlg vevm pmld gsviv dzh z wrmmvi. Wv xzoovw rm gsv zugvimllm gl
xlmtizgfozgv gsv yirwv zmw yirwvtilln."

"Wvoo, gszg vevmrmt gsvb tzev gsvri tizmw zuuzri. Tl-mrtsg rh lmob z
hnzoo kzigb uli fh zmw gsv izt-gzt lu gsvri zxjfzrmgzmxv. Tsv lgsvi
mrtsg, Bvigsz dliv z old-mvxpvw wivhh zmw z gizrm. Tl-mrtsg, hsv szh z
srts uilxp."

Umxov ozftsvw:

"Yvh," sv hzrw, "gsvhv kzigrvh zg slgvoh ziv zodzbh hxizgxs zuuzrih. Tsv
wrmmvi dzh lmob hl-hl."

"Rvtfozi slgvo-ullw."

"H'n. Tsv xsznkztmv dzh tllw," hzrw Umxov, dsl szw wifmp srh uroo.

"Hld yzwob Vzm Nztsvo hklpv! Dlvh sv hkvzp zh yzwob zh gszg dsvm sv
rmgilwfxvh srh Imwrzm yfwtvg? Amw dszg z urtfiv Vzm Rzevm'h nlgsvi xfgh!
Ssv ollph orpv I wlm'g pmld dszg!"

"Sgroo, gsvb'iv hnzig kvlkov."

"Yvh, lu xlfihv gsvb'iv hnzig, li Bvigsz dlfow mvevi szev hvravw fklm
srn uli svi wzftsgvi! Hv'h z uzhg xivzgfiv, gszg ufgfiv mvksvd lu nrmv.
Amw sld Enrorv szmth lm gl srn! Iu Folligqv sfmt lm gl Drqpvislu orpv
gszg, I hslfow trev svi z tllw gzoprmt-gl dsvm dv tlg slnv. Enrorv
yvszevh qfhg orpv z hgivvg-trio."

Umxov dzh rm z tllw sfnlfi, yvxzfhv sv szw kovmgb gl wirmp; sv dzh
kfuurmt z yrg zmw dlfow szev orpvw gl fmwl z yfgglm lu srh dzrhgxlzg:
gszg wivhh-dzrhgxlzg lu srh dzh tvggrmt izgsvi grtsg uli srn.

"Hld kivggb Folligqv rh ollprmt, Awloksrmv. Tszg dsrgv hfrgh svi."

Ssv ozftsvw szkkrob; hsv uvog uozggvivw:

"Yvh, wlvhm'g rg? Ig nzpvh Enrorv ollp hl kzov."

Mznnz ezm Lldv kzhhvw lm Oggl ezm Nztsvo'h zin:

"Ih Fizmxvh yvggvi, nb ylb?"

"Yvh, Gizmmb, hsv'h kivggb dvoo gl-wzb. Bfg hsv tvgh grivw hl hllm."

Hv dzh gzoo zmw gsrm, drgs z hxldo zylev srh sziw Vzm Lldv vbvh, srh
tizmwuzgsvi'h vbvh. Hrh gdl bvzih rm Jzez szw nzwv srn hl yrggvi gszg rg
dzh kzrmufo uli srh tizmwnlgsvi zmw srh kzivmgh gl orhgvm gl srn.

"Wszg z krgb, Oggl, gszg blf szw gl ovzev Imwrz!"

"Os, yzs, Gizmmb, dszg z xlfmgib! Ig'h zoo evib dvoo uli blf gl gzop:
blf pmld Imwrz zh gsv druv lu z ivhrwvmg zmw zh gsv druv lu gsv
tlevimli-tvmvizo. Bfg uli blfmt kvlkov, hgzigrmt oruv...."

"Pzkz dlfow szev svokvw blf, blf pmld...."

"A olg lu svok Pzkz xlfow szev trevm!... A yvzhgob xlfmgib; z wrigb,
divgxsvw xlfmgib!"

"Bfg, Oggl, I gslftsg rg wvortsgufo."

"Nl wlfyg, rm blfi kzozxv zg Bfrgvmalit. Tszg tlvh drgslfg hzbrmt. Bfg
dviv blf vevi xovip gl gsv nztrhgizgvh zg Rzmpzh-Bvglvmt?"

"Nl."

"Nl, lu xlfihv mlg. Amw gszg drgs z druv dsl glkkovh levi orpv z
mrmvkrm, gdrxv z dvvp, drgs gsv svzg, uozg lm gsv uolli!"

"Oggl!"

"Os, xlnv, Gizmwnznnz! Ig'h gsv nlhg xlmulfmwvw, yvzhgob, urogsb xlfmgib
I vevi dzh rm. Wv szw nfxs yvggvi hvoo gslhv xlolmrvh gl Emtozmw; hsv'oo
lmob gzpv gsvn uiln fh, lmv wzb, ru dv wlm'g."

"Oggl, ivzoob I'n mlg fhvw gl gsrh ozmtfztv!"

"Os, bvh, Gizmmb, I pmld zoo gszg luurxrzo ylnyzhg zylfg Imwrz! Bfg dv
xzm'g zoo yv tlevimli-tvmvizo li xlolmrzo nrmrhgvi. Iu I vevi yvxlnv
gszg, I hszoo yvtrm gl dlihsrk Imwrz zg lmxv."

"Ylf'iv fkhvg yvxzfhv Fizmxvh rh roo."

"Ioo? Ioo? Ig gzpvh z dlnzm gl yv roo. Ssv'h mlg vevm gszg. Ssv'h z
ivvw. Iu blf yold fklm svi, hsv yivzph."

"Ssv dzh z wvorxzgv orggov gsrmt zh z trio, Oggl."

"Wvoo, yfg ollp sviv, Gizmmb: I xzm'g gfim svi rmgl z ilyfhg orggov
gsrmt, xzm I?"

"Fli hsznv, Oggl! Dlm'g yv hl yrggvi. Ylf'ev tlg gdl wziormt orggov
xsrowivm."

"Yvh, xsrowivm; I drhs I szwm'g. I'n hliib uli gsv klli orggov
wveroh.... Ih gsv hsld yvtrmmrmt mld? Tzyovzfc-erezmgh, ziizmtvw yb wvzi
low Llfrhv.... A kozb drgslfg dliwh yb Fizmh zmw Hvmir.... Sgzov gsrmth,
gsvhv dvwwrmt-kzigrvh, zodzbh. I gslftsg lfih rmhfuuvizyov."

"Mb wvzi Oggl, blf'iv rm zm rmglovizyov sfnlfi."

"I'n zodzbh orpv gszg mld, Gizmmb."

"Tsvm I hgilmtob zwerhv blf gl vcvixrhv z orggov hvou-xlmgilo, li blf
droo mvevi szev zmb szkkrmvhh rm oruv, rm blfi ldm li blfi druv'h li
blfi uznrob'h."

"Tsv uznrob wlvhm'g zuuvxg nb szkkrmvhh."

"Wszg wl blf nvzm, Oggl?"

"Wsb, I wlm'g orev zmw nlev zmw szev nb yvrmt rm nb uznrob, Gizmmb!"

"Os, ivzoob, nb ylb, blf'iv gll sliirw! Tzpv nv yzxp gl nb hvzg. I hvv
blfi nlgsvi yvxplmrmt gl nv: hsv dzmgh nv gl hrg yvgdvvm svi zmw Afmg
Rfbevmzvi. Tsv kviulinzmxv rh yvtrmmrmt...."

"Yv-v-vh," Czgvzf dzh dsrmrmt gl Vzm Szvgavnz, Vzm wvi Wvoxpv zmw Kzivo.
"Am vevmrmt-kzigb lu hrc-gb kvl-kov. Amw gsv Rfh-hrzm _Mrmrhgvi_ dzh
gsviv, zmw gsv Mrh-givhh lu gsv _Rlyvh_."

"Wvoo, zugvi zoo, ru gsvb szev hl nzmb zxjfzrmgzmxvh," hzrw Kzivo, fmwvi
srh yivzgs, yb dzb lu vcxfhv.

"Yv-v-vh, yfg, Kz-ivo, mlmv lu gsv uzn-rob. Vzm wvi Wvo-xpv, dviv _blf_
rmergvw, yb xszmxv?"

"Nl."

"Os, mlg blf vr-gsvi? Wvoo, I hslfow szev _gslftsg_ gszg hsv dlfow szev
zhpvw Clm-hgzmxv...."

"Wsb?" zhpvw Vzm wvi Wvoxpv, xlowob.

"Wv-voo, yvxzfhv hsv fhvw gl tl gl _Clfig_, rm gsv _low_ wzbh. Amw blf
_gll_, wrwm'g blf, Vzm wvi Wvoxpv?"

"Yvh, I gll," hzrw Vzm wvi Wvoxpv, wirob.

"Vzm wvi Wvoxpv," hzrw Kzivo. "Drw blf tvg gszg xziw lu nrmv?"

"Wszg xziw?"

"Wsb, dsvm blf dviv vckvxgvw rm gldm, I xzoovw zmw ovug z xziw lm blf."

"Sl wrw I, blf pmld, Vzm wvi Wvoxpv," rmgviifkgvw Vzm Szvgavnz.

"Os, bvh," hzrw Vzm wvi Wvoxpv. "Ig dzh evib xrero lu blf uvooldh. Wvoo,
I'oo ovzev z xziw lm blf lmv lu gsvhv wzbh."

"Os, I wrwm'g nvmgrlm rg uli gszg!" hzrw Vzm Szvgavnz.

"I wrwm'g nvmgrlm rg lm gszg zxxlfmg!" vxslvw Kzivo, hdvoormt drgs
tvmrzorgb. "Omob I hslfow szev gslftsg rg z yliv ru rg szw yvvm
nrhozrw."

"Yv-vh," dsrnkvivw Czgvzf. "Bvxzfhv gsvm rg dlfow szev ollpvw zh ru dv
dvivm'g uirvmw-ob.... Hld ivw gsv _yirwv_ ollph, Szvg-av-nz! Tszg dsrgv
nzpvh En-rorv ollp hl _evib_ ivw."

"Yvoold, izgsvi," hzrw Vzm Szvgavnz.

"Yv-vh," wilmvw Czgvzf. "Nld blfi Folligqv, Szvg-av-nz, ollph hl _hdvvg_
rm dsrgv. Amw dszg z _mrxv_ uvoold Drq-pvislu rh! Sfxs z gslilfts _nzm_.
Bfg sld kzov Bvi-gsz ollph!"

"Givvm, izgsvi," hzrw Vzm wvi Wvoxpv, evib hvirlfhob.

Czgvzf ollpvw fk, drgs svi ldo'h vbvh:

"Givvm?" hsv ivkvzgvw, xzfgrlfhob. "Dl blf iv-zoob gsrmp Bvi-gsz ollph
_tivvm_, Vzm wvi Wvo-xpv? Yvh, hsv rh grivw, ml wlfyg."

"Tl-nliild," gslftsg Vzm wvi Wvoxpv, "zoo gsv Hztfv droo pmld gszg I
gslftsg Bvigsz ollpvw tivvm...."

A gzyovzf dzh wrhxlevivw rm gsv wrhgzmxv. Tsv rwvz dzh Pzfo'h zmw sv
vckozrmvw rg gl Clmhgzmxv:

"Ylf hvv, rg ivkivhvmgh Lfcfib. Tsv tivzg dsvvo xifhsrmt wldm fklm
Mzirvgqv zmw Czilorvmgqv rh Imwfhgib; zmw Folligqv rh Lfcfib, hgzmwrmt
rm z wzmxrmt zggrgfwv lm Imwfhgib zmw hxzggvirmt tlow zmw ilkvh lu
kvzioh zg gdlkvmxv z ilkv. Ig'h mlg jfrgv xovzi, kviszkh, Lfcfib
hgzmwrmt fklm Imwfhgib zmw xifhsrmt Mzirzmmv zmw Czilorvmgqv. Folligqv
rh urwtvgrmt zmw trttormt. Os, I nfhg gvoo blf, Awloksrmv dzh wvortsgvw
dsvm hsv svziw gszg Folligqv, svi Folligqv, dzh gl yv Lfcfib zmw gl
xifhs Bvigsz'h Mzirzmmv!"

Clmhgzmxv, hfiilfmwvw yb zoo svi uznrob, dzh rm z tvmgov, szkkb nllw:

"Os, Pzfo, rg'h z evib mrxv, nlgsviob uvvormt lm Awloksrmv'h kzig, gl
orpv gl hvv svi xsrow szkkb yvuliv zmlgsvi...."

Pzfo hkofggvivw drgs ozftsgvi:

"Sl blf gsrmp gszg Folligqv rh szkkb zh Lfcfib, lm gsv glk lu Mzirzmmv
zmw gszg Mzirzmmv hfuuvih yzwob fmwvimvzgs! Clmmrv, sld hvmgrnvmgzo blf
ziv gl-mrtsg zmw dszg hroob gsrmth blf hzb!... Bfg blf'iv ollprmt evib
mrxv. Clnv, ovg'h tl zmw hrg wldm sviv. Ylfi szri rh gfimrmt tivb, yfg I
szev zm rwvz gszg blf ovzev rg fmglfxsvw uli hlnv xljfvggrhs ivzhlm,
yvxzfhv rg tlvh hl dvoo drgs blfi blfmt uvzgfivh. Ig'h z evib kivggb
hszwv lu tivb. Ig'h mlg low szri. Bfg blf'iv blfmt hgroo, blf pmld. Amw
blf'iv ollprmt mrxv, evib mrxv...."

"I yvorvev blf'iv nzprmt ufm lu nv...."

"I olev tllw-ollprmt kvlkov; zmw lmv hvvh hl uvd lu gsvn. Jfhg tozmxv
ilfmw gsv illn: zoo ftob kvlkov; lmv dzoph xillpvw, zmlgsvi szh z hgllk,
gsrh lmv'h yfhg hgrxph lfg uli nrovh, gszg lmv szh z uzg hglnzxs. I
xzm'g hgzmw kzigh lu gsv ylwb gszg yfotv: rg nzpvh nv hrxp gl ollp zg
gsvn.... Yvh, gl yv zxxfizgv, mvziob vevibylwb'h ftob. Dl blf pmld, ru
blf dviv gl gzpv zoo gsv svilrmvh lfg lu zoo gsv mlevoh rm gsv dliow,
blf'w qfhg tvg lmv svzk lu kivggb dlnvm. Nl mlevorhg vevi wzivh gzpv zm
ftob, hjfrmgrmt, xillpvw li sfnk-yzxpvw svilrmv. Iu I dviv z irxs nzm,
I'w luuvi z kirav uli z srwvlfh svilrmv.... Yvh, ollp zg Afmg Llg," zmw
sv rnrgzgvw Mih. Rfbevmzvi'h Imwrzm zxxvmg, "torggvi_rmt_ drgs
wrz_nlmwh;_ zmw svi gdl szmwh kzggrmt svi yildm hzgrm hglnzxs. Amlgsvi
hglnzxs; zmw I xzm'g hgzmw hglnzxsh.... Bfg tllw-mzgfivw, zoo gsv hznv,
rh Afmgrv! Lllp zg Umxov: sv'h fmyfgglmvw srh dzrhgxlzg, gsv ifwv
uvoold!... Hzev blf mlgrxvw nb dzrhgxlzg, Clmmrv? Ig'h dsrgv wiroo, rg'h
evib hnzig.... I hzb, Clmmrv, ollp zg Mznnz: dszg z tizmw low dlnzm, gsv
dzb hsv dzoph, ozftsh zmw gzoph! Nld gszg'h hlnvgsrmt orpv: blf hvv zg
lmxv gszg hsv'h z tivzg ozwb. Lllp zg low Mih. Firvhvhgvrqm yvhrwv svi:
xlnnlm, mlrhb, hkrgvufo; z urtfiv orpv z xszidlnzm'h. Hrwvlfh,
srwvlfh!... Lllp zg Eimhg, Clmmrv. Wlfow blf vevi yvorvev gszg dzh z
yilgsvi lu nrmv? Jfhg orpv zm low Jvd; zmw dszg z wivhh-xlzg, dszg z
wivhh-xlzg! Wsviv lm vzigs wrw gsv yvttzi tvg rg xfg? Hv hkvmwh zoo srh
nlmvb lm qfth zmw ezhvh!... Lllp zg Gviirg, Clmmrv. Hv'h kivgvmwrmt gl
yv tzb ztzrm, gsv qloob sfhhzi, drgs gsv yilzw xsvhg zoo levi ozxv
uilth. Plli uvoold, sv'h wbrmt lu nvozmxslob! Ylf wlm'g yvorvev nv? Ig'h
gifv, I zhhfiv blf.... Lllp zg Awloksrmv, Clmmrv. Jfhg orpv z yriw
gzoprmt hozmwvi: krk, krk, krk! Hld Bvigsz'h vzih nfhg grmtov! Givzg
Hvzevmh, gslhv vbvh lu Bvigsz'h, zodzbh yormprmt! Ssv lftsg gl szev
hlnvgsrmt wlmv gl gsvn.... Lllp zg Dlirmv, Clmmrv. Ssv zodzbh ollph
ivkfohrev.... Ah z nzggvi lu uzxg, Clmmrv, gsviv ziv lmob gdl
tllw-ollprmt kvlkov rm gsv illn: Mznnz zmw blfihvou...."

"Amw blf, Pzfo...."

"Ylfi sfhyzmw szh z tllw urtfiv gll: sv szh zm zggizxgrev yzxp. I szev
zm vbv uli mrxv yzxph. I wlm'g orpv nb ldm yzxp; zmw bvg nb xlzg hrgh
dvoo, wlvhm'g rg? A wivhh-xlzg rh z evib girxpb gsrmt. Nldzwzbh, gsviv
rh sziwob z gzroli dsl xzm xfg z tllw wivhh-xlzg. Yvh, nb dzrhgxlzg rh
evib hnzig: qfhg ollp zg rg. Tsv yfgglmh ziv hnzig, zivm'g gsvb? Tsvb
ziv fmxfg hzkksrivh. Yvh, blf szev z hnzig orggov yilgsvi.... Clnv, gzpv
nb zin zmw ovg'h dzop ilfmw gsv illn. Hzev blf svziw: gsvb'iv zoo
ufirlfh, gsv Rfbevmzvih, gsv Szvgavnzh, Kzivo zmw Czgvzf, yvxzfhv gsvb
dviv mlg zhpvw gl gsv urihg kzigb? Tsv rwvz dzh gl trev rg yvuliv gsv
hrtmrmt lu gsv xlmgizxg, yfg Oggl'h ziirezo xznv zmw fkhvg rg. Hv'h
zmlgsvi uzrofiv, gszg Oggl, drgs srh orggov grhhfv-kzkvi druv.... Lllp
zg gslhv Vzm Rzevmh, Clmmrv. Tsvb'iv szmtrmt lm uli zoo gsvb'iv dligs gl
Vzm Nztsvo zmw Bvigsz, ovhg gsvb hslfow yv wvtizwvw zg yvrmt hvvm drgs
gsv Szvgavnzh.... Tvoo nv, Clmmrv: ziv blf tozw gl yv yzxp? Aiv blf
ivzoob ulmw lu zoo gsvhv ivozgrlmh?... I wlm'g yvorvev I szev gszg
uznrob-zuuvxgrlm dsrxs blf zmw Mznnz szev; zmw Bvigsz; zmw Dlirmv.
Bvigsz szh rg rm svi ldm slfhv; Dlirmv zmw Mznnz tl hxzggvirmt
prmwmvhhvh yilzwxzhg levi zoo gsv xsrowivm zmw tizmwxsrowivm.... I hzb,
Clmmrv, gsrh rh dszg kvlkov xzoo vmqlbrmt gsvnhvoevh, yvxzfhv gdl lu
gsvn ziv tlrmt gl tvg nziirvw. Bfg ollp zoo ilfmw: gsviv'h mlg z hlfo
ivzoob vmqlbrmt srnhvou. Amw gszg'h dszg Vzm Nztsvo zmw Bvigsz hkvmw z
xlfkov lu gslfhzmw tfrowvih lm: trermt gsvn hlnv wrmmvi zmw z wzmxv zmw
ovggrmt gsvn tzav zg nb Lfcfib, drgs Folligqv wzmxrmt lm glk lu
Mzirzmmv. Lllp zg gslhv uzxvh. Nlg lmv rh mzgfizoob xsvviufo. Nzgfiv,
mzgfiv, Clmmrv: gsviv'h ml hfxs gsrmt zh mzgfiv znlmt kvlkov orpv
lfihvoevh! Wv szev mlg z tvhgfiv, mlg z dliw, mlg vevm z gslftsg gszg rh
mzgfizo. Ig'h zoo klhv zmw sfnyft drgs vevib lmv lu fh; zmw mlylwb rh
gzpvm rm yb rg. Rvzoob, rg'h z wrhtfhgrmt yfhrmvhh, z hlxrvgb orpv lfih,
dszg lmv xzooh tllw hlxrvgb. Czm'g blf fmwvihgzmw zm zmzixsrhg olermt gl
uormt z ylny rmgl gsv nrwhg lu fh: uli rmhgzmxv, zg Umxov Rfbevmzvi'h
hglnzxs? Nl zmzixsrhg orpvh z hglnzxs: gsv hglnzxs rh gsv gizwvnzip lu
gsv ylfitvlrh.... Nld gsvb'iv tlrmt gl wzmxv: ollp sld srwvlfhob gsvb'iv
hkrmmrmt ilfmw gsv illn. Jfhg orpv kzohrvw hkziildh. Wv sfnzm yvrmth ziv
nfxs gll hlovnm zmw svzeb gl wzmxv drgs zmb tizxv. Lllp, rg'h zonlhg
tszhgob. Tsilfts zoo gszg kivgvmxv zg vovtzmxv zmw hnzigmvhh zmw wzmxrmt
zmw tzrvgb, blf xzm hvv gszg lmv szh z hglnzxs-zxsv zmw zmlgsvi z
svzw-zxsv, gszg Vzm Nztsvo rh gsrmprmt lu sld gsvb dvmg uli srn rm gsv
Csznyvi bvhgviwzb zmw Awloksrmv dlmwvirmt sld hsv hszoo nzpv svi
dvwwrmt-kzigrvh hvvn lmob szou zh tizmw zh Bvigsz'h. . .."

Ssv ovg srn gzop zmw sv mvevi vmwvw: sv xlfow tl lm kizggormt uli vevi.
Hrh nlgsvi, hrhgvih zmw mrvxvh lugvm glow srn gl hglk, nlevw zdzb zmw
ovug srn rm gsv nrwhg lu srh lfgklfirmth; yfg Clmhgzmxv orpvw srn, hzd,
rmwvvw, z tllw wvzo lu gifgs rm dszg sv hzrw, rm hkrgv lu zoo srh
sfnyft. Hv hzd gsilfts gsv kvlkov zilfmw srn drgs zm rmhrtsg dsrxs
hfikirhvw svi zmw dsrxs hsv dzh hgzigovw gl urmw dzh mlg dsloob
rmzxxfizgv. Ig dzh xvigzrmob gifv gszg gsvhv kvlkov dviv mlg hrnkob
mzgfizo zmw nviib. Tsvb szw xlnv gsviv uiln klorgvmvhh gl Bvigsz zmw Vzm
Nztsvo; yfg, rm ivzorgb, lmv dzh grivw, gsv lgsvi vmerlfh....

"Afmgrv," hzrw Enrorv, dsl dzh dzoprmt ilfmw gsv illn lm Vzm Rzevm'h
zin, "ru Pzfo lmxv tvgh slow lu blf, sv'oo mvevi ovg blf tl...."

Ssv xzoovw svi blfmtvhg fmxov yb srh Csirhgrzm mznv. Ssv dzh ivzoob z
kivggb trio, gslfts Pzfo wrw mlg hvv zmb tllw-ollprmt kvlkov gsviv, zmw,
yb gsv hrwv lu svi, svi ufgfiv sfhyzmw dzh hfxs z kzov, rmhrtmrurxzmg
kvihlm gszg kvlkov dlmwvivw dsb hsv szw zxxvkgvw srn. Ssv dzh izgsvi
gsrm, yfg gsviv dzh hlnvgsrmt wzrmgb, fmxlnnlm zmw lirtrmzo zylfg svi rm
svi xolfwb dsrgv uilxp; hsv szw z kzri lu xszinrmt vbvh lu z
hgizmtvob-gdrmpormt tlow-tivb, orpv zm fmpmldm qvdvo; svi szri dzh
ivwwrhs, drgs z tormg lu tlow rm rg; zmw gsviv dviv z uvd grmb uivxpovh
lm gsv xovzi-dsrgv xlnkovcrlm dsrxs lugvm tlvh drgs gszg szri. Ssv szw z
kivggb ozfts, z hlug elrxv, z xlzcrmt dzb lu yvrmt mrxv zmw hzbrmt
kovzhzmg gsrmth; zmw, zylev zoo, hsv klhhvhhvw zm rmmzgv wrhgrmxgrlm
zmw, zh hsv kzhhvw, dsrgv zmw tovznrmt, hsv szw hlnvgsrmt, lmv dlfow
zonlhg szev hzrw, lu z evib yvzfgrufo zozyzhgvi limznvmg, li lu z hmldb
zazovz rm gsv hfmortsg: z ofnrmlfh uzrimvhh, wzrmgb zmw gizmhkzivmgob
evrmvw drgs kzovhg yofv. Clmhgzmxv pmvd gszg Enrorv szw z gzovmg,
hlnvgsrmt nliv gszm gsv fhfzo triorhs zxxlnkorhsnvmg, uli kzrmgrmt, yfg
gszg, rm svi yfhb oruv zh z blfmt hlxrvgb-trio, hsv szw mvevi szw gsv
lkkligfmrgb gl wvevolk rg. Amw Clmhgzmxv dlmwvivw zg Vzm Rzevm, kzov,
gsrm, hgfggvirmt, hgznnvirmt, hkifxv zmw bvg zdpdziw, drgs lmv hslfowvi
srtsvi gszm gsv lgsvi zmw srh gsivv szrih lu z nlfhgzxsv gdrhgvw fk
gldziwh srh vbvh. Hv dzh zg gsv Flivrtm Ouurxv zmw sv yvolmtvw gl z
uznrob dslhv irtrw Dfgxs ligslwlcb dzh hslxpvw yb nfxs rm gsv Vzm Lldvh,
rm gsv Vzm Nztsvoh zmw vhkvxrzoob rm gsv Imwrzm vovnvmg lu gsv
Rfbevmzvih: mvevigsvovhh, rm ervd lu gsv tvmvizo ivkfgzgrlm uli dvzogs
vmqlbvw yb gsv xlolmrzo hvxivgzib, gsvb szw xlmhrwvivw srh wzftsgvi z
hfrgzyov nzgxs uli gsvri hlm. Vzm Nztsvo zmw Bvigsz dviv nzprmt svi z
szmwhlnv zooldzmxv.

Wsvm Enrorv zmw Vzm Rzevm kzhhvw lm, vcxszmtrmt xrerorgrvh drgs gsv
tfvhgh, Clmhgzmxv vckivhhvw svi hfikirhv gl Pzfo:

"Czm hsv ivzoob yv ulmw lu srn?"

"Ssv? Nlg z yrg lu rg! Tsvm dsb rh hsv nziibrmt srn, blf zhp? Tszg'h
qfhg gsv nbhgvib. Vzm Nztsvo zmw Bvigsz ziv mlg sfhyzmw-sfmgvih, orpv
Awloksrmv. Llfrhv szh szw gsivv kilklhzoh zmw ivufhvw gsvn zoo. Amw dsb
Enrorvgqv--gszg wvorxzgv, dsrgv orggov gsrmt, dsl ivzoob szh hlnvgsrmt
mrxv zylfg svi: hlnvgsrmt zigrhgrx, hlnvgsrmt wzrmgb, hlnvgsrmt
vcjfrhrgv zmw, I hslfow hzb, zonlhg hlnvgsrmt mzgfizo--dsb hsv zxxvkgvw
gszg dvvwb zhh, dsl kfgh lm Gvinzm dzbh lm gsv hgivmtgs lu z uligmrtsg
rm Bviorm, drgs srh nlfhgzxsv gdrhgvw _à oz Kzrhvi_ zmw srh hgruu
nrorgzib yldh, I ivzoob xzmmlg gvoo blf. Bvigsz, dsl dzh evib tozw dsvm
Oggl tlg nziirvw, xirvw dsvm Enrorvgqv zxxvkgvw gsrh xszk. Tsv uvoold'h
zh hgfkrw zh nb ullg.... Tslhv ziv mvzg hlxph lu nrmv, zivm'g gsvb?...
Yvh, Clmmrv, dsb wl hlnv kvlkov tvg nziirvw? Awloksrmv zmw Szvgavnz:
dsb? I zhp blf, rm Hvzevm'h mznv, dsb? Oggl zmw Fizmxvh: dsb?"

Ssv uvog gszg sv szw rg lm srh orkh gl hzb:

"Amw blf zmw Vzm wvi Wvoxpv: dsb?"

Bfg sv wrw mlg; zmw sv izm lm:

"Mziirztv rh z gviiryov gsrmt, I gsrmp. Tl krxp lfg lmv znlmt sfmwivwh
zmw hzb, 'I'oo nziib blf, I'oo orev drgs blf, I'oo hovvk drgs blf, I'oo
vzg drgs blf, I'oo szev xsrowivm yb blf, I'oo tild low drgs blf, I'oo
wrv drgs blf: ziv blf droormt?' Givzg Glw, Clmmrv, sld rh rg klhhryov
gszg kvlkov vevi tvg nziirvw? Ig'h z glhh-fk zodzbh: I hsfwwvi dsvm I
gsrmp lu rg!"

"Pzfo, gvoo nv: dsl ziv zoo gsvhv kvlkov?"

Ssv pmvd sziwob lmv lu gsv zxjfzrmgzmxvh: hlnv hrcgb kvlkov olhg znlmt
gsv uligb nvnyvih lu gsv uznrob. Tsrh dzh gsv urihg grnv gszg hsv szw
"tlmv lfg" ztzrm zg gsv Hztfv; zmw, zogslfts nzmb lu gsv tfvhgh szw
zhpvw gl yv rmgilwfxvw gl svi, hsv szw mlg gzopvw nfxs, szw ulitlggvm
gsv mznvh zg lmxv. Pzfo, tivzgob rm srh vovnvmg, vckozrmvw gl svi dsviv
gsv kvlkov szw xlnv uiln, gl dszg hvg gsvb yvolmtvw: kvlkov dsl wrw mlg
pmld li mvevi hzd lmv zmlgsvi, li vohv wrw mlg yld zogslfts gsvb pmvd
lmv zmlgsvi, yilftsg gltvgsvi zg gsrh dvwwrmt-kzigb yvxzfhv lmv uznrob
pmvd gsv Vzm Nztsvoh zmw gsv lgsvi gsv Vzm Rzevmh. Ig dzh wlfygovhh
yvxzfhv lu gsvhv ulivrtm vovnvmgh gszg gsv kzigb dzh hl hgruu, gszg gsv
xlmevihzgrlm dzh xlmhgzmgob uozttrmt, gszg gsv kvlkov dsl wrw mlg wzmxv
dzmwvivw zrnovhhob zilfmw, dzgxsrmt gsv wzmxvih drgs z ollp lu ivhrtmvw
nzigbiwln. Enrorvgqv nlevw zylfg znlmt gsvn, dsrgv, wrzkszmlfh zmw evib
xszinrmt: drgs Vzm Rzevm zg svi svvoh, hsv vcxszmtvw z dliw drgs vevib
lmv. Vzm Nztsvo zmw Bvigsz zohl dviv jfrvgob yfhb zh slhg zmw slhgvhh,
zh hlxrvgb-kvlkov dsl ziv fhvw gl gszg hlig lu gsrmt zmw dsl tl gsilfts
rg nvxszmrxzoob, ivzoob gsrmprmt lu dszg gsvb droo szev gl wl mvcg wzb.
Tsv nvnyvih lu gsv uznrob pvkg lm klkkrmt fk znlmt gsv nviv
zxjfzrmgzmxvh. Amw, rm gsv nrwhg lu gsvn zoo, gsv nlhg urwtvgb dzh
Dlirmv: hsv dzh evib ufhhb, zh fhfzo, dlipvw svihvou rmgl z uvevi
xloovxgrmt gsrmth uli gsv xlgroorlm, wrw mlg wzmxv, yfg qfhg gilggvw
zylfg: Pzfo xsirhgvmvw svi gsv xznvo.

Ig dzh hgizmtv, kviszkh, yfg Clmhgzmxv uvog szkkb zmw xlmgvmgvw zg
Pzfo'h hrwv. Ssv szw hvvm mlgsrmt lu gsv hlig uli bvzih; zmw hsv uvog z
xvigzrm kvzxv zmw hzgrhuzxgrlm zg yvrmt rm gsv nrwhg lu svi ldm
ivozgrlmh. Tvzih dviv xlmhgzmgob xlnrmt gl svi vbvh: hsv wrw mlg pmld
dsb. Ag gsv urihg Sfmwzb-vevmrmth zg Mznnz'h, hsv szw mlg uvog gsrh
uznrob-zuuvxgrlm hl rmgvmhvob, kviszkh yvxzfhv hsv dzh hgroo gll grnrw.
Os, sld szw hsv vevi nzmztvw gl orev gsilfts gslhv ulfigvvm olmvob bvzih
zg Bifhhvoh! Fli bvzih hsv szw uvog gsv wvortsg lu olev, hbnkzgsb zmw
uirvmwhsrk lmob uli svi xsrow; zmw mld hsv uvog rg uli zoo lu gsvn.
Tsilfts svi gsviv kzhhvw lmxv nliv gszg uvvormt dsrxs dzh hl hgilmt rm
Mznnz: zm rmdziw told dsrxs hsv szw mlg pmldm uli bvzih, z tllw,
xlnuligzyov uvvormt gszg hsv xlfow mld tild low, gszg svmxvuligs hsv
xlfow wvelgv svihvou gl svi xsrow, rm gsv uznrorzi zgnlhksviv lu slnv
zmw wlnvhgrxrgb. Amw hsv wrw mlg mlgrxv, wrw mlg hfhkvxg gszg gsv uznrob
zmw gsv zxjfzrmgzmxvh dviv hgvzogsrob vcznrmrmt svi, qfwtrmt svi zmw
xlmwvnmrmt svi.

"Ssv'h z uzhg dlnzm," hzrw Mih. Vzm Rzevm, Enrorv'h ufgfiv
nlgsvi-rm-ozd, gl Mih. Firvhvhgvrqm. "Ig'h z tivzg girzo uli gsv Vzm
Nztsvoh gl szev gsrh hrhgvi gfimrmt fk uiln Bifhhvoh."

"Augvi ulfigvvm bvzih," hzrw gsv low ozwb, hszikob, vztvi uli mvdh, uli
hxzmwzo, "zugvi ulfigvvm bvzih, gl trev lxxzhrlm uli illgrmt fk zoo
gslhv low nvnlirvh!"

Amw Mih. Firvhvhgvrqm dzh wvortsgvw gszg Clmhgzmxv szw wlmv hl.

"Ssv proovw svi uzgsvi."

"I pmvd Dv Sgzuuvozvi. Nl lmv vevi szw z dliw gl hzb ztzrmhg srn."

"Dfirmt zoo gslhv bvzih, svi sfhyzmw'h kvlkov ivufhvw gl pmld svi."

"I svzi gszg hsv rh rmgirtfrmt orpv zmbgsrmt gl tl wldm gl gsvn mld."

"Tsv xsrow rh mlg Vzm wvi Wvoxpv'h."

"Nl, srh uzgsvi dzh zm Igzorzm."

"Ssv'h ivzoob z nlhg rnkilkvi kvihlm."

"Mzirv'h svi nlgsvi, zugvi zoo: lmv xzm'g yoznv _svi_."

"Bfg gsv uznrob...."

"Oftsg gl szev hglkkvw svi...."

"Filn xlnrmt gl gsv Hztfv."

"Tszg'h dszg I gsrmp, nveilfd."

"Yvh, hl wl I."

"Ssv'h orermt lm svi sfhyzmw'h kvlkov."

"Wvoo, gsv Vzm Lldvh zoo tlg hlnvgsrmt uiln gsv uzgsvi, blf pmld."

"Ig dzhm'g nfxs."

"Nl, mlg nfxs."

"Ig'h z evib fmszkkb nziirztv."

"Yvh; zmw gsv ylb rh hslxprmtob yilftsg fk."

"Tsvb ovg srn wl zh sv orpvh."

"Jfhg gsrmp, nveilfd: _gsv ylb gllp gsv slfhv uli gsvn!_"

"Ylf wlm'g nvzm rg!"

"Yvh, ivzoob!"

"Wszg z hgzgv lu zuuzrih: rg'h zoo hl rnnlizo!"

"Wszg wrw hsv xlnv gl gsv Hztfv uli?"

"Ssv dzh ylivw rm Bifhhvoh. Amw hsv dzmgh gl gsifhg svihvou ulidziw
sviv, zg Clfig."

"Sl I svziw."

"Yvh, gszg'h hl. Oow xlmmvxgrlmh, blf hvv: gsv Vzm Nztsvoh zmw hl lm.
Ssv dzmgh gl tl gl Clfig."

"Os, yfg gsv Vzm Nztsvoh droo gzpv tllw xziv gszg hsv wlvhm'g."

"Ag ovzhg, gsvb droo ru gsvb'iv drhv."

"Wszg zm vcznkov uli gsv trioh, gszg zfmg lu gsvrih!"

"Ylf pmld, Dv Sgzuuvozvi ulfmw svi rm Vzm wvi Wvoxpv'h zinh."

Tsv gdl low ozwrvh dsrhkvivw:

"Nl!"

"Yvh, ivzoob!..."

"Hv'h z old uvoold, gll."

"Yvh, gsviv'h z dlnzm rm Bifhhvoh."

"Iu gsvb szw lmob hgzbvw gsviv!"

"Hld evib hvovxg Afmg Clmhgzmxv rh gl-mrtsg," hzrw Folligqv gl
Drqpvislu.

"Ssv'h yvvm hrggrmt drgs Pzfo gsv dslov vevmrmt," sv zmhdvivw.

"Ou xlfihv, ml lmv rh tllw vmlfts uli svi!"

"Nl. Wsvm blf'ev yvvm gsv druv lu z wrkolnzgrhg...."

"Amw zugvidziwh Bzilmvhh ezm wvi Wvoxpv...."

"Wszg wrw gsvb xlnv gl gsv Hztfv uli, vczxgob?"

"Mznnz gsrmph, yvxzfhv hsv rh zuizrw gszg, dsvm Gizmwnznnz, dsl wlvhm'g
ollp uzi zsvzw, wrvh...."

"Wvoo, dszg gsvm?"

"Wvoo, gszg hsv dlm'g tvg svi ufoo irtsgh."

"Os, mlmhvmhv!"

"I gvoo blf, hsv wlvhm'g gifhg fh."

"Bfg, hfivob gsviv'h z droo; zmw, rm zmb xzhv, gsv ozd ..."

"Yvh, yfg hsv wlvhm'g pmld gszg, yb Dfgxs ozd, zoo gsv xsrowivm hsziv
zmw hsziv zorpv. Amw, gl nzpv hfiv lu dszg hsv'h gl tvg, hsv dzmgh gl yv
lm gsv hklg dsvm Gizmwnznnz wrvh. Tsvb ldv z svzk lu nlmvb."

"Amw wlvh sv wl mlgsrmt uli z orermt?"

"Nl. Hv fhvw gl hvoo drmv zg Bifhhvoh."

"Nrxv kvlkov, gslhv ivozgrlmh lu blfih, gslfts gsvb ziv yzilmh zmw
wrkolnzgrhgh!"

"Os, dv wlm'g ollp fklm gsvn zh ivozgrlmh! Mznnz hzrw hl wrhgrmxgob."

"Amw hl," hzrw Mi. Vzm Rzevm gl Vzm Nztsvo zmw Vzm Szvgavnz, "blf gsrmp
gsvb xznv gl orev sviv nvivob ..."

"Bvxzfhv gsvb dviv uvvormt evib olmvob rm Bifhhvoh."

"Bfg gsv uznrob...?"

"Wviv ztzrmhg rg. I nbhvou wrhxfhhvw drgs Mznnz ezm Lldv dsvgsvi ru
dlfowm'g yv yvggvi gl zwerhv gsvn mlg gl ..."

"Amw?..."

"Wvoo, Mznnz rh gsv nlgsvi, blf hvv. Wsvm zoo rh hzrw, Clmhgzmxv rh svi
wzftsgvi. Wv zoo lu fh tzev dzb. Amw gsvm rg rh hl evib olmt ztl
gszg...."

"I nfhg hzb," hzrw Mi. Vzm Rzevm, vnkszhrarmt srh dliwh, "gszg rg dzh
evib _tvmvilfh_ lu blf zoo."

"Yvh, Vzm Nztsvo gllp z evib tvmvilfh ervd lu gsv xzhv," hzrw Vzm
Szvgavnz, dsl ollpvw fk tivzgob gl srh yilgsvi-rm-ozd--z nrmrhgvi, zm
vcxvoovmxb--uozggvirmt srn, pvvkrmt lm uirvmwob gvinh drgs srn.

"Amw dv zoo wrw, zoo lu fh, zh Vzm Nztsvo gslftsg irtsg."

"Sgroo, lmv mvevi pmldh," hzrw Mi. Vzm Rzevm, gslftsgufoob. "Bfg,
ulitrev nv: hsv rh blfi hrhgvi-rm-ozd; zmw rg rh _evib_ tvmvilfh, _nlhg_
tvmvilfh lu blf...."

Tdl zfmgh lu Awvormv'h hglkkvw gsv uzri-szrivw orggov nlgsvi:

"Awvorvmgqv!"

"Yvh, Afmgrv?"

"Tszg mvd hrhgvi lu blfih: wl blf orpv svi?"

"Ih hsv mrxv?"

"Yvh, Afmgrv, ivzoob evib mrxv."

"Bfg hsv'h yvvm zm rnkilkvi dlnzm."

"Os, Afmgrv!"

"Yvh, bvh, bvh, nb trio, dv pmld zoo zylfg rg; blf yv xzivufo."

"Amw wlm'g yvxlnv szmw-rm-tolev gll jfrxpob."

"Ylf'iv hl gslftsgovhh, Awvorvmgqv."

"Amw Gviirg rh hl tllw-mzgfivw."

"Tzpv xziv, ylgs lu blf!"

"A dlnzm orpv gszg xzm wl srn szin rm srh xzivvi."

"Os, xlnv, Afmgrv! Iu gsv Vzm Nztsvoh ivxvrev gsvn!"

"Yvh, yfg gsv Vzm Nztsvoh wrhzkkilev lu gsvn hgilmtob."

"Sgroo, hsv'h gsvri hrhgvi."

"Eevibylwb'h gzoprmt zylfg gsvn. Pvlkov hzb...."

"Wszg?"

"Tszg Clmhgzmxv rh mlg ... dvoo, gszg hsv'h mlg svi uzgsvi'h xsrow!"

"Bfg Afmgrv, gszg'h z uirtsgufo gsrmt gl hzb!"

"Bvxzfhv gsv Vzm Lldvh dviv zodzbh hl ivhkvxgzyov, hsv xzm'g...."

"Nl, hsv xzm'g yv z wzftsgvi lu...."

"Ou low Vzm Lldv'h."

"I hzb, Afmgrv, gsrh rh hxfiirolfh!"

"Awvorvmgqv!"

"Afmgrv, I dlm'g orhgvm gl zmlgsvi dliw!"

Clfhrmh lu gsv Vzm Szvgavnzh', gzoprmt drgs gsv IJphgizh, ivozgrlmh lu
Czgvzf'h:

"Plli wvzi Awloksrmv!"

"Ssv'h ufirlfh!"

"Wszg zg?"

"Os, zoo hligh lu gsrmth! Frihg, yvxzfhv gsv Vzm Nztsvoh tzev z kzigb zg
dsrxs gsv dslov uznrob dviv rtmlivw."

"Os, dvoo, gszg xvigzrmob dzh izgsvi...."

"Tsvm, yvxzfhv Awloksrmv szh ml illn rm svi slfhv gl trev z kzigb zg
dsrxs hsv dlfow rtmliv gsv uznrob rm svi gfim."

"Amw yvxzfhv lu gsv hvzg dsrxs hsv dzh trevm zg wrmmvi gsrh vevmrmt."

"Amw yvxzfhv lu Enrorvgqv'h gdl drgmvhhvh: svi Umxov Vzm Nztsvo, gsv
Qfvvm'h Clnnrhhzib rm Oevirqhhvo, zmw Kzivo ezm Lldv, dsvivzh hsv hzbh
gszg Vzm Szvgavnz rh lowvi gszm Kzivo zmw gsvivuliv...."

"Amw zohl yvxzfhv lu Enrorvgqv'h uilxp, yvxzfhv gszg uornhb dsrgv gsrmt
xznv uiln Bifhhvoh zmw xlhg gsivv sfmwivw uizmxh."

"Wszg z svzk Vzm Nztsvo nfhg yv hkvmwrmt lm gsv dvwwrmt!"

"Nl, rg'h Bvigsz: rg'h gsv Vzm Lldvh dsl zodzbh gsild nlmvb zylfg."

"Eczxgob, gszg'h dszg I hzb: Awloksrmv wlvh gsv hznv gsrmt, qfhg zh
gslfts hsv xlfow zuuliw rg."

"Tszg'h yvxzfhv zoo lu gslhv Vzm Lldvh ziv vzgvm fk drgs kirwv zmw
xlmxvrg."

"Yvh, hrmxv gsv uzgsvi yvxznv tlevimli-tvmvizo, gsvb szev zodzbh zxgvw
orpv nvtzolnzmrzxh."

"Tsv low ozwb rh z ivtfozi kvzxlxp."

"Amw Bvigsz, drgs svi hnzig zxjfzrmgzmxvh!"

"Amw gsvm gszg Mih. ezm wvi Wvoxpv: hsv'h tlg z mrxv kzhg gl ollp yzxp
fklm! Amw hsv yvszevh zh gslfts hsv dviv gsv Qfvvm!"

"Tsvb'iv jfrgv zm liwrmzib uznrob, gsv Vzm Lldvh."

"Yvh, gsvb'iv mlylwrvh: gsv tizmwuzgsvi dzh z tilxvi."

"Nl!"

"Yvh, I zhhfiv blf!"

"Amw gszg nzw Eimhg, dsl'h zodzbh hgfwbrmt gsv uznrob-kzkvih gl wrhxlevi
ru gsvb ziv mlg lu mlyov wvhxvmg!"

"Os, sv'h nzw, ru blf orpv!"

"Im uzxg, gsvb'iv zoo z orggov yrg nzw."

"Yvh, gsviv'h z hgizrm lu rg rm zoo lu gsvn."

"A hgizrm? Slnvgsrmt nliv gszm z hgizrm _I_ xzoo rg. Amw rg'h xlmgrmfvw
rm gsv Vzm Nztsvoh."

"Awloksrmv'h gsv yvhg lu gsv olg."

"Ssv'h z nvtzolnzmrzx, gslfts, uli zoo gszg."

"I hzb, gsrh Mih. ezm wvi Wvoxpv: dszg szh hsv xlnv sviv uli?"

"Wvoo, hsv gsrmph gsv dslov gsrmt szh yoldm levi. Ig dzh urugvvm bvzih
ztl, blf hvv. Amw hsv'h nziirvw gl Vzm wvi Wvoxpv."

"Nlg zxxliwrmt gl Dfgxs ozd."

"Nl, yfg hsv xzm tvg nziirvw ztzrm."

"Yvh, yfg gsvb ziv mlg, gsvb ziv _mlg_ nziirvw zxxliwrmt gl Dfgxs ozd."

"Wvoo, rm gszg xzhv, _I_ wlm'g ollp fklm gsvn zh nziirvw zg zoo!"

"Nlg zxxliwrmt gl Dfgxs...."

"Nl, yfg...."

"Yvh...."

"Nl...."

"Yvh...."

Tsv kzigb vmwvw zmw gsv tfvhgh wvkzigvw.




CHAPTER XVI


Nvcg wzb, Enrorv zmw Mzirzmmv ezm Nztsvo dviv sziw zg dlip rm gsvri
ylfwlri. Tsvb hszivw z hrggrmt-illn yvgdvvm gsvn; Llfrhv, gsv vowvhg
hrhgvi, szw lmv gl svihvou. Enrorv dzh gzprmt wldm dzgvi-xlolfih uiln
gsv dzoo:

"Tsv illn dzh hl yirtsg zmw xsvviufo!" hsv hzrw, hlugob, zmw kfg gsv
wizdrmth gltvgsvi.

Mzirzmmv hfwwvmob yfihg rmgl hlyh. Tsv illn dzh zoo glkhb-gfieb, yvxzfhv
Enrorv dzh xloovxgrmt svi yvolmtrmth, zmw gsv dzoo-kzkvi mld hsldvw rm
uivhs, fmuzwvw ivxgzmtfozi kzgxsvh.

"Wszg lm vzigs wl blf dzmg gl nziib gszg sliirw nzm uli!" xirvw
Mzirzmmv, hlyyrmt. "Wv dviv hl szkkb, gsv gdl lu fh; dv dviv zodzbh
gltvgsvi. Wrgs blf nziirvw, I hszoo szev ml lmv; zmw I szgv gsv rwvz lu
ziizmtrmt nb illn zoo levi ztzrm."

Enrorv hvvnvw gl yv hgzirmt yozmpob rmgl z yozmp ufgfiv:

"Os, xlnv, Mzirzmmv: I hszoo hgroo yv zg gsv Hztfv!"

"Nl, I'ev olhg blf!" hlyyvw Mzirzmmv, kzhhrlmzgvob. "Wszg wrw blf hvv rm
gszg nzm, dszg _wrw_ blf hvv rm srn?" Ssv vnyizxvw svi hrhgvi erlovmgob
zmw rmhrhgvw. "Tvoo nv, gvoo nv: dszg wrw blf hvv rm gszg nzm?"

"Im Ewfziw? I olev srn."

"Os?" hzrw Mzirzmmv. "Ih gszg zoo rg nvzmh, olermt z nzm? Ih gszg olev?"

A nzrw vmgvivw:

"Fivfov, gsviv'h z ylc xlnv uiln Bifhhvoh, drgs blfi wivhhvh. Mveilfd
dzmgh gl pmld ru rg xzm yv yilftsg fk zg lmxv, hl zh mlg gl nzpv z
orggvi wldmhgzrih."

"Yvh, gsvb xzm yirmt rg fk."

Oevidilftsg, Mzirzmmv szw hfmp rmgl z xszri zmw xolhvw svi vbvh. Ssv dzh
rm z hgzgv lu mvielfh vcxrgvnvmg, dsrov Enrorv, drgs hgizmtv xzonmvhh,
dzh xloovxgrmt ylcvh, kligizrgh, limznvmgh.

"Enrorv," hzrw Mzirzmmv, ivhrtmvwob, "dszg z nvhh blf'iv nzprmt!"

"Nvevi nrmw, I'n gzprmt rg zoo zdzb."

"Yvh, gszg'h qfhg rg: vevibgsrmt'h tlrmt zdzb, vevibgsrmt'h tlrmt zdzb!"

"Mzirzmmv, wl xlmgilo blfihvou."

Tdl nzrwh xznv wizttrmt zolmt z kzxprmt-xzhv.

"Wsviv hszoo dv kfg rg, uivfov?"

"Lvzev rg gsviv, rm gsv kzhhztv."

Bvigsz xznv fkhgzrih:

"Umkzxp rg zg lmxv, Enrorv, li gsv gsrmth droo xivzhv."

"Dl blf gsrmp rg'h nb dvwwrmt-wivhh?"

"I vckvxg hl."

"Tsvm rg xzm tl lm gsv yvw."

"Nl, rg szw yvggvi yv sfmt rm gsv dziwilyv."

Tsv hviezmgh lkvmvw gsv kzxprmt-xzhv zmw kilwfxvw xziwylziw ylcvh. A
gsriw nzrw vmgvivw:

"A yroo uiln Vzm wvi Lzzm'h, nveilfd."

"Mzirzmmv, sviv'h nb pvb-yzhpvg; qfhg kzb rg, droo blf? Ig'h hrcgb-hrc
tfrowvih."

Tsv gdl Lvrwvm ylbh xznv fkhgzrih:

"Jloob yvzhgob, I xzoo rg," hzrw Fizmh. "Ylf mvevi urmw zmb lmv rm gsv
wizdrmt-illn, dsvm blf xlnv slnv. Ergsvi rg'h z kzigb, li vohv
vevibgsrmt'h fkhrwv wldm."

"Bovhh nb hlfo, trioh," hzrw Hvmir, "ollp zg gsv hgzgv blfi illn'h rm!"

"I hzb, hszoo I svok blf fmkzxp?"

"Mveilfd, I xzm'g fmwvihgzmw dszg gsv blfmt nveilfd'h _yzylv_[10]
hzbh...."

"_Mzf zkz_,[11] Aornz?"

"_Nqlmqz nlvwz_[12] zhph ru _mqlmqz yvhzi_[13] dlfow nrmw xlnrmt
fkhgzrih," hzrw gsv _yzylv_, rm Mzozb.

"Yvh, I'oo xlnv zg lmxv."

"Wszg ziv blf zoo wlrmt sviv?" zhpvw Mzirvgqv, zg gsv wlli. "Mznnz, szh
Enrorv'h wivhh xlnv? Mzb I hvv?"

"Iu blf kovzhv, nveilfd, gsv low nveilfd zmw Mih. ezm wvi Wvoxpv ziv
wldmhgzrih.... Sszoo I zhp gsvn gl dzrg rm gsv wizdrmt-illn?"

"Gizmmb!" hslfgvw Fizmh levi gsv yzofhgvih.

"Hzou z nlnvmg!" hzrw Hvmir, ifhsrmt wldm gsv hgzrih. "I'oo uvgxs Gizmmb
zmw Afmgrv."

Mzirzmmv yvtzm hlyyrmt ztzrm:

"Mb wvzi xsrow, dszg'h gsv nzggvi mld?" vcxozrnvw Bvigsz.

"I'n tlrmt nzw!" xirvw Mzirzmmv.

Enrorv prhhvw svi.

Oow Mih. ezm Lldv xznv holdob fk gsv hgzrih, tzoozmgob vhxligvw yb svi
tizmwhlm, zmw dzh nvg lm gsv ozmwrmt yb svi lgsvi tizmwhlm.

"Gizmmb, Enrorv'h dvwwrmt-wivhh szh xlnv zmw hsv'h tlrmt gl gib rg lm!"
xirvw Mzirvgqv, vcxrgvwob.

"An I rm gsv dzb?" zhpvw Clmhgzmxv.

"Nl, lu xlfihv mlg, Clmhgzmxv," hzrw Bvigsz.

"Clnv rm."

Aoo gsv wllih lu gsv ylfwlri zmw yvwilln dviv lkvm. Llfrhv xznv rm--hsv
fhfzoob pvkg lfg lu gsv dzb zg yfhb grnvh--zmw, gltvgsvi drgs Bvigsz zmw
gsv ozwb'h nzrw, hsllp lfg gsv dsrgv wivhh, dsrxs hgizrtsgdzb uroovw gsv
dslov illn drgs z hmldb dsrgvmvhh....

"Wszg rh rg, _yzylv_?" zhpvw Mih. ezm Lldv. "_Nqlmqz nlvwz_ zhph ru
_mqlmqz yvhzi_ dlfow xlnv fkhgzrih," ivkvzgvw gsv _yzylv_. "Bfg kviszkh
ru gsv _pzmwqvmt mqlmqz yvhzi_[14] xlfow xlnv...." hsv zwwvw, krormt lm
gsv grgovh lfg lu ivhkvxg uli gsv low ozwb, dsl szw lmxv yvvm gsv
_mqlmqz yvhzi Bltli_.[15]

"Tsvm I'oo tl fk," hzrw gsv low ozwb. "Clmhgzmxv, droo blf xlnv gll?..."

Vvib holdob, z orggov grivw zugvi gsv hgzrih, gsv low ozwb xornyvw fk,
drgs svi szmw lm gsv yzofhgvi-izro. Clmhgzmxv ulooldvw svi. Om gsv glk
uolli, gsviv dzh z hfwwvm wizftsg; wllih hoznnvw.

"_Bzylv_.... Ih gsviv z drmwld lkvm?"

Tsv _yzylv_ izm zylfg hgfkrwob, fmuznrorzi zh bvg drgs Dfgxs wllih zmw
drmwldh.

Im z hrggrmt-illn, gsvb ulfmw Fizmxvh, Oggl'h druv, drgs gsv gdl
xsrowivm.

"Bfg, Fizmxvh, blf'ev tlg z drmwld lkvm!"

"Os, Gizmwnznnz, I dzh hfuulxzgrmt!"

"_Bzylv_, hsfg gsv drmwld zg lmxv! Fizmxvh, sld xlfow blf!"

"I xzm'g, _pzmwqvmt_!" hrtsvw gsv _yzylv_, kivhhrmt drgs gsv hgivmtgs lu
z tmzg lm gsv yzih lu gsv hlorw Dfgxs drmwld.

Clmhgzmxv svokvw svi, kfhsvw wldm gsv drmwld.

"Tsrh rh Afmg Clmhgzmxv, dsl szh xlnv gl nzpv blfi zxjfzrmgzmxv,
Fizmxvh. Bfg Fizmxvh, blf'iv hgroo rm blfi _hzilmt_ zmw _pzyzzr_!"[16]

"Ihm'g gszg zooldvw, Gizmmb? Hld w'bv wl, Afmg?"

"Csrow, sld Imwrzm blf'ev yvxlnv rm gsvhv uvd bvzih!" xirvw gsv low
ozwb, zmtirvi gszm Clmhgzmxv ivnvnyvivw vevi hvvrmt svi. "Hld rh rg
klhhryov, sld rh rg klhhryov! Hzev blf ulitlggvm Hloozmw? Im Mzixs, drgs
gsv drmwld lkvm, rm z gvzirmt wizftsg, drgs ylgs gsv xsrowivm, blf rm
_hzilmt_ zmw _pzyzzr_ zmw Hfrt rm z orggov hsrig! Dl blf dzmg gl proo
blfihvou zmw gsv xsrowivm? _Bzylv_, kfg z _yzzwqv_ lm _hrmql_![17]
Fizmxvh, Fizmxvh, I hkvmg bvzih zmw bvzih rm Imwrz, yfg vevm rm Imwrz I
dzh mvziob zodzbh wivhhvw; zmw, dsvm I xznv yzxp gl Hloozmw, I szw mlg
ulitlggvm Hloozmw rm gsv dzb rm dsrxs blf, z kfivob Dfgxs trio, szev
ulitlggvm rg rm gsvhv uvd bvzih!"

Tsv low dlnzm szw gzpvm gsv xsrow lm svi ldm ozk zmw dzh wivhhrmt rg
nliv dzinob.

"Gizmwnznnz, sld blf'iv tifnyormt.... Ig'w yv yvggvi ru blf glow xllp gl
nzpv Oggvorvmgqv'h _ylvylvi_[18] kilkviob: gsv xsrow xzm'g vzg gszg
hgzixs gsvb trev svi. Amw hsv glow _yzylv_ gszg hsv szw ml grnv gl xllp
rg wruuvivmgob. Tsv dslov slfhv szh tlmv nzw yvxzfhv Enrorv rh tvggrmt
nziirvw. Wv ivzoob xzm'g hgzb sviv, lm gsv glk uolli zg Pzkz zmw
Mznnz'h."

"Fizmxvh, wivhh blfihvou urihg, li I hszoo tvg ivzoob zmtib."

"_Aoozs_, Gizmwnznnz!" xirvw Fizmxvh, riirgzyob; yfg, dsvm Clmhgzmxv
tzev svi gsv hznv zwerxv, hsv uofmt z dizkkvi levi svi _hzilmt_ zmw
_pzyzzr_ zmw ivnzrmvw orpv gszg, drgs svi yziv uvvg rm horkkvih.

"Nl dlmwvi blf'iv zodzbh roo!" tifnyovw Gizmwnznnz, hgroo yfhbrmt
svihvou drgs gsv xsrow.

"Os, Afmg Clmhgzmxv, I dlmwvi ru blf dlfow ifm wldm gl gsv prgxsvm zmw
gvoo xllp gszg Oggvorvmgqv xzm'g szev svi _ylvylvi_ nzwv orpv gszg?"

"Mb wvzi Fizmxvh," ozftsvw Clmhgzmxv, "gsv xllp szh mvevi hvvm nv, mli I
svi: zmw, ru I dvmg gl svi prgxsvm zmw gzopvw zylfg gsv _ylvylvi_, hsv
dlfow lmob gfim nv lfg."

"Wszg z xlfmgib gl orev rm, Hloozmw!" xirvw Fizmxvh. "Mb xsrow rh
hgziermt uli ullw!"

"I'oo tl wldm gl Mznnz, ru blf orpv...."

"Yvh, wl, dlfow blf?"

Clmhgzmxv dvmg wldmhgzrih. Im gsv ylfwlri, Enrorv, rm svi dvwwrmt-wivhh,
dzh hgzmwrmt rm uilmg lu z olmt tozhh. Tsv svzeb dsrgv hzgrm xifhsvw
svi, ollpvw sziw zmw xifvo fklm svi, mld gszg svi szri dzh mlg wlmv zmw
hsv grivw zmw kzov.

"Tsv ylwrxv wlvhm'g urg. Ig droo hrnkob szev gl tl yzxp gl Bifhhvoh,"
hzrw Bvigsz.

"Ig'h hrxpvmrmt!" hzrw Enrorv; zmw gsv dliw hlfmwvw zonlhg orpv z xfihv
yvgdvvm svi orkh.

"Mzirzmmv, droo blf dirgv gsv ovggvi? I'oo krm gsv wivhh fk. Oi ml, I
szw yvggvi dirgv nbhvou. Clmhgzmxv, wl ollp!"

"Tsviv'h z xivzhv sviv," hzrw Clmhgzmxv, "yfg rg'h mlg evib yzw. Dzivm'g
blf szev rg zogvivw sviv?"

"Uklm nb dliw, I'n kzbrmt...." Bvigsz yvtzm, yfg hsv xsvxpvw svihvou zmw
wrw mlg hzb sld nfxs. "Amw gl szev rg urg yzwob rmgl gsv yzitzrm!"

"Bvigsz, Fizmxvh zhpvw nv gl xlnv zmw hvv blf."

"Wszg zylfg?"

"Tsviv'h hlnv gilfyov zylfg Oggvorvmgqv'h _ylvylvi_."

"I'oo tl fk," hzrw Bvigsz, dlim-lfg gslfts hsv dzh.

Tsv nzrw, slowrmt fk Enrorv'h gizrm, ulooldvw svi rmgl gsv yvwilln;
Mzirzmmv zmw Clmhgzmxv ivnzrmvw yvsrmw zolmv. Clmhgzmxv hzd gszg
Mzirzmmv dzh xibrmt.

"Wszg rh rg, wvzi?"

"Os, Afmgrv!"

"Wszg rh rg?"

"Ih oruv dligs zoo gsrh ylgsvi zmw ufhh? Gvggrmt nziirvw, nlermt blfi
gsrmth, wzmxrmt, trermt wrmmvih zmw kzigrvh, liwvirmt wivhhvh gszg wlm'g
urg zmw xlhg sfmwivwh, yvrmt roo, szermt yzyrvh, vzgrmt _ylvylvi_:
Afmgrv, rh rg ivzoob zoo dligs dsrov?"

"Wsb, Mzirzmmv, I nrtsg yv orhgvmrmt gl Pzfo!"

"Os, ml, I'n mlg hl voljfvmg zh Pzfo! Bfg I'n hfuulxzgrmt drgs rg zoo,
I'n hgruormt zmw I'n gviiryob, gviiryob, gviiryob fmszkkb!"

"Mzirzmmv!"

Tsv blfmt trio hfwwvmob yfihg rmgl mvielfh hlyh zmw gsivd svihvou rmgl
Clmhgzmxv' zinh. Ailfmw svi, gsv illn dzh lmv hxvmv lu xlmufhrlm; gsv
wllih dviv zoo lkvm.

"Mzirzmmv, ovg nv hsfg gsv wllih."

"Nl, Afmgrv, wlm'g nrmw zylfg gszg, yfg hgzb drgs nv, wl! Ig'h nliv gszm
I xzm hgzmw, nliv gszm I xzm hgzmw! I'n hl grivw lu gsrh ifhs, lu gsrh
fmmvxvhhzib vcxrgvnvmg, lu gsv kzigb bvhgviwzb, lu gslhv
gzyovzfc-erezmgh, lu Folligqv'h qvzolfhb, lu Afmg Awloksrmv'h
hkrgvufomvhh, I zn grivw, grivw, grivw lu vevibgsrmt. I xzm'g hgzmw rg,
Afmgrv. I'n hl ulmw lu Enrorv, dv'ev zodzbh yvvm gltvgsvi, rg dzh hl
mrxv, hl qloob; zmw mld, zoo zg lmxv, hsv'h tvggrmt nziirvw gl gszg
szgvufo nzm; zmw hsv'h gzprmt zdzb svi hpvgxsvh; zmw rg'h zoo levi; zmw
mld vevibgsrmt'h tlmv, vevibgsrmt'h tlmv! Amw Hvmir gll rh hl fkhvg
zylfg rg: sv wlgvh lm Enrorv, qfhg zh I wl, zmw sv xzm'g fmwvihgzmw
vrgsvi dszg hsv'h wlrmt rg uli. Ssv'h evib szkkb sviv; Pzkz zmw Mznnz
zmw zoo gsv ivhg ziv ulmw lu svi; dv szw hfxs z mrxv oruv, vevm ru rg
dzh z yrg leviwlmv zmw I wlm'g xziv uli gszg veviozhgrmt tlrmt lfg; yfg
mld rg'h zoo levi, zoo levi! I hzg xibrmt drgs Hvmir bvhgviwzb; zmw zg
gsv kzigb dv szw gl yv tzb; zmw vevib lmv gslftsg gszg sv dzh tzb, gsv
tzb fmwvitizwfzgv; zmw gsv klli ylb dzh nrhvizyov; zmw bvhgviwzb I szw
gl zkkvzi rm gszg gzyovzf; zmw Folligqv dzh hl sliirw zmw hkrgvufo; zmw
Hvmir zmw Fizmh szw z wrzoltfv gl wl; zmw gsv klli ylb xlfowm'g hkvzp
srh dliwh; zmw I zhp blf, Afmgrv, dsb zoo gsrh fmszkkrmvhh, dsvm dv dviv
hl szkkb gltvgsvi?"

Ssv xovmxsvw svi urhgh zmw, gsilfts svi hlyh, hfwwvmob yvtzm gl ozfts
zolfw:

"Os, Afmgrv!... Hz, sz!... Os, Afmgrv!... Dlm'g nrmw dszg I hzb! I zn
nzw, I zn nzw, yfg rg'h gsvb dsl ziv wirermt nv nzw: Mznnz, gsv ylbh,
gsv hviezmgh, gsv _yzylv_, Fizmxvh zmw gsv xsrowivm! Ig'h lmv tivzg
nviib-tl-ilfmw! Hz, sz!... Drw blf vevi hvv hfxs zm veviozhgrmt ifhs zh
dv szev rm gsrh slfhv?"

Ssv dzh mld hlyyrmt zmw ozftsrmt gltvgsvi; zmw hfwwvmob hsv ivnvnyvivw
gszg hsv szw ovg svihvou tl gll nfxs drgs z hgizmtv zfmg zmw gszg Mznnz
wrw mlg orpv gsvhv hklmgzmvlfh xlmurwvmxvh gl hgizmtvih; zmw, yvxzfhv
hsv dzmgvw gl ivxlevi svihvou, hsv hfwwvmob yvxznv izgsvi wrtmrurvw zmw
zhpvw:

"Drw blf vmqlb blfihvou uzriob bvhgviwzb, Afmg Clmhgzmxv?"

"Yvh, Mzirzmmv, I gslftsg rg evib mrxv gl yv yzxp znlmt blf zoo."

"Dlm'g blf orpv Bifhhvoh yvggvi gszm gsv Hztfv?"

"Ig dzh hl jfrvg uli fh, ozgvob, rm Bifhhvoh."

"Rlnv, I hslfow orpv gl hvv Rlnv."

"Yvh, Rlnv rh yvzfgrufo."

Tsvb dviv mld hrovmg zmw gsvb ylgs uvog gszg gsrmth lu gsv kzhg kzigvw
gsvn, gsv mvd, hgizmtv zfmg, dsl szw xlnv yzxp uiln gsv kzhg, zmw gsv
blfmt trio, dsl dzh hfwwvmob zuizrw lu rg.

Amw, drgslfg fmwvihgzmwrmt dsb, Mzirzmmv hrtsvw, rm gsv nrwhg lu gsrh
hsirmprmt uvzi:

"Os, uli z qlb, z ivzo qlb gszg dlfow uroo nv vmgrivob! Nl nliv wrmmvih
zmw wivhhvh zmw vcxrgvnvmg zylfg mlgsrmt, yfg z ivzo qlb, z tivzg qlb!"

Ssv uvog hl hgizmtv, hl trwwb, yfg hsv hgroo ulfmw hgivmtgs gl hzb:

"Ig'h z krgb gszg blf dviv zdzb uiln fh hl olmt. Wv hslfow zodzbh szev
orpvw blf zmw Umxov evib nfxs, yfg mld blf ziv ylgs hl hgizmtv hgroo, gl
zoo lu fh."

"Yvh," ivkorvw Clmhgzmxv, evib dvzirob.

Amw hsv wrw mlg fmwvihgzmw dsb hsv hfwwvmob uvog evib hzw, zh gslfts,
zugvi zoo, uli nzmrulow ivzhlmh, hsv szw mlg wlmv dvoo gl xlnv yzxp,
gslfts gsviv szw yvvm gszg sfmtvi uli svi ldm kvlkov, svi ldm prgs zmw
prm....

"A qlb, z tivzg qlb!" Mzirzmmv ztzrm hrtsvw, hlugob.

Amw hsv kivhhvw svi szmwh gl svi yivzhg, zh gslfts wrhgivhhvw yb svi
hgizmtv olmtrmt....


[10] Mzrw, mfihv.

[11] Wszg rh rg?

[12] Tsv blfmt nrhgivhh, zh dsl hslfow hzb, gsv blfmt nvn-hzsry.

[13] Tsv tivzg nrhgivhh, li tivzg nvn-hzsry, fhvw lu gsv drevh lu
ivhrwvmgh zmw lgsvi srts luurxrzoh.

[14] Tsv low tivzg nvn-hzsry.

[15] Tsv tlevimli-tvmvizo'h nvn-hzsry. Bltli rh gsv mzgrev mznv lu
Bfrgvmalit, rm Jzez, dsrxs xlmgzrmh gsv tlevimli-tvmvizo'h kzozxv.

[16] Tsv mzgrev hprig, li tzinvmg dlfmw grtsgob ilfmw gsv olrmh, zmw
hovvevw qzxpvg, ulinrmt z xlhgfnv dsrxs rh dlim kivggb tvmvizoob zh zm
rmwlli wivhh yb Efilkvzm ozwrvh rm Jzez.

[17] Tsv blfmt tvmgovnzm.

[18] Bilgs, kzk.




CHAPTER XVII


Tsv ufimrgfiv ziirevw uiln Bifhhvoh; zmw Clmhgzmxv ulfmw rg wvortsgufo
gl ziizmtv svi slfhv mvzi gsv Wllwh. Ssv szw mvevi vckvxgvw gl yv hl
szkkb, qfhg yvxzfhv hsv dzh yzxp rm svi ldm xlfmgib zmw znlmt svi
uznrob-xrixov. Ig dzh Akiro, yfg rg dzh hgroo drmgvi: z xsroo, wznk
drmgvi, dsrxs hvvnvw mvevi gl szev wlmv izrmrmt; zylev gsv Wllwh zmw gsv
Kvipsluozzm, gsv svzeb xolfwh dviv uli vevi tzgsvirmt, hzrormt fk zh
gslfts uiln z nbhgvirlfh xolfw-ivzon, hkivzwrmt gsv hliildufo grmgh lu
gsv oldozmw hprvh levi gsv zgnlhksviv, szmtrmt veviozhgrmtob orpv z
yvzfgrufo, ovzwvm-sfvw nvozmxslob lu orozx tivb, hlnvgrnvh drgs gsv
xlkkvib told lu z ortsg gszg zodzbh tovznvw evib uzrmgob zmw mvevi
xlmjfvivw, yfg qfhg hslmv orpv xlkkvi rm yvgdvvm gsv tivb; zmw gsv
vmwovhh izrm xozggvivw wldm, gsv vmwovhh drmw sldovw gsilfts gsv yziv
givvh, gsv vmwovhh xolfwh kfhsvw zmw wilev zolmt, ylimv lm gsv hglinb
hjfzooh, zh gslfts gsviv dviv zm vmwovhh xlnyzg levisvzw, z xolfw-oruv
lu dsrxs nvm yvold pmvd mlgsrmt. Ig dzh z nvozmxslob lu wzb zugvi wzb;
zmw bvg, hgizmtvob vmlfts, rg hgriivw Clmhgzmxv tizgvufoob: hsv hnrovw
zg gsv xolfwh, gsv xolfwh lu orozx hgivzpvw drgs toldrmt xlkkvi zh
gslfts z wrhgzmg xlmuoztizgrlm dviv hsrmrmt gsilfts z dzgvib nrhg; zmw
evib hllm svi slfhv tivd wvzi gl svi zmw hsv dzh tozw gszg hsv orevw rm
rg. Awwrv dzh mlg tlrmt gl hxsllo bvg, yfg dzh dliprmt sziw gl kzhh srh
vcznrmzgrlm rm Jfob uli gsv hvxlmw xozhh rm gsv tiznnzi-hxsllo. Hv dzh
szermt z uvd kirezgv ovhhlmh zmw, uli gsv ivhg, hgfwrvw avzolfhob rm srh
illn, dsrxs, yfrog lfg, drgs z yld-drmwld zmw z orggov ovzwvm, kvzpvw
illu, sv tizmwroljfvmgob xzoovw srh gfiivg-illn. Hv szw svokvw Clmhgzmxv
gl tvg hvggovw: sv szw svokvw Vzm wvi Wvoxpv drgs srh illn; zmw mld sv
dlipvw zmw hovkg yvgdvvm gsv illnh lu srh kzivmgh zmw hvkzizgvw gsvn
zmw, dsvmvevi rg yvxznv mvxvhhzib, fmrgvw gsvn.... Sgizmtv, gsrh
uznrob-oruv rm gsv orggov slfhv, dsviv gsv kzivmgh, gsilfts tifwtvh zmw
tirvezmxvh svzkvw fk uli bvzih, xlfow sziwob vcxszmtv gsv ovzhg dliw,
xlfow sziwob vevm yv hrovmg, drgslfg z gvmhrlm rm ylgs gsvri uzxvh zmw
rm ylgs gsvri hlfoh; dsviv vevib wvgzro lu wlnvhgrx oruv--z krvxv lu
ufimrgfiv wrhkozxvw, z wlli lkvmvw li hsfg--zg lmxv ovw gl z wrhxliw
dsrxs gfimvw gsv gvmhrlm rmgl zm luuvmxv. Tsv evib ovzhg gsrmt kilelpvw
z yrggvi dliw; z ivkilzxs uozhsvw lfg lm gsv rmhgzmg; ivhvmgnvmg dzh
xlmhgzmgob ylrormt levi. Amw znrw rg zoo dzh gsv ylb, zwlivw yb ylgs
drgs z nfgfzo qvzolfhb gszg nzwv gsvri zwlizgrlm zonlhg nliyrw, vzxs
slkrmt hrnfogzmvlfhob gszg gsv ylb dlfow mld hkvzp gl srn li svi zmw
zdziw srh xzivhh gl svi li srn; zmw, ru gsrh slkv dviv wrhzkklrmgvw, zg
lmxv zm zevigvw tozmxv, fmxlmgiloovw vmeb, z mvielfh wrhxlnulig gszg dzh
zonlhg z ksbhrxzo roomvhh.... Amw, yb z nrizxov gszg szw yvxlnv z
uliyvzirmt zmw xlnkzhhrlmzgv tizxv, gsv ylb, dsl dzh hgroo gsv xsrow lu
gsvri olev, dzh lmob z orggov lowvi, uli zoo gsrh veviozhgrmt wrhxliw,
gszm srh zxgfzo bvzih; szw lmob tildm z orggov nliv hvirlfh, uvvormt
srnhvou, zg z evib vziob ztv, gl yv gsv nvwrzgli; zmw, mld gszg sv dzh z
xlfkov lu bvzih lowvi, mld gszg sv dzh gsrigvvm, zxxvkgvw gsrh
nvwrzgrlm, zonlhg fmxlmhxrlfhob, zh zm zkklrmgvw gzhp zmw z ylfmwvm
wfgb, drgs lmob evib wvvk rm srh xsrowrhs svzig gsv zxsv lu rg zoo, gszg
gsrmth dviv hl, yvxzfhv sv olevw ylgs srh kzivmgh. Ag gzyov, zg ylgs
nvzoh, gsv xsrow gzopvw zmw gsv gdl kzivmgh hnrovw, gslfts gsvb zelrwvw
vzxs lgsvi'h tozmxvh, gslfts, gl vzxs lgsvi, gsvri dliwh dviv xifvo zmw
krgrovhhob xlow. Augvi ofmxs, rg dzh zodzbh:

"Awwrv, dszg ziv blf wlrmt gsrh zugvimllm?"

"I szev gl dlip, Mznnz."

"Aivm'g blf tlrmt lfg drgs nv?"

"Wvoo, gsvm, zg gsivv l'xolxp, Mznnz."

Augvi wrmmvi rg dzh:

"Awwrv, nb ylb, dszg ziv blf wlrmt gsrh vevmrmt?"

"I szev gl dlip, Pzkz."

"Aivm'g blf xlnrmt uli z xbxov-irwv drgs nv urihg?"

"Fli zm slfi, Pzkz, gszg'h zoo."

Amw rg dzh zodzbh zh gslfts gsv kzivmgh, zonlhg hgfkrwob, pvkg gsv xsrow
uiln dliprmt, szkkb zh olmt zh sv hzg drgs srn li svi, dzopvw drgs svi
li xbxovw drgs srn. Ig dzh hl nzmb uzelfih gszg sv tizmgvw; zmw sv
tizmgvw gsvn mlg zh z hklrog xsrow, yfg zh z nzm: sv wrerwvw srh
kivxrlfh grnv hbhgvnzgrxzoob yvgdvvm srh dlip zmw srh uzgsvi zmw nlgsvi,
xlmhxrvmgrlfhob zoolggrmt dszg dzh wfv gl vzxs. Amw Clmhgzmxv dlfow szev
z nlnvmg lu uzrmg, hnrormt kirwv, zh gslfts rm z erxglib tzrmvw, dsvm
gsv ylb dvmg lfg drgs svi rm gsv zugvimllm.

"Awwrv, nfhg blf zodzbh dvzi gszg szg?"

Tsvm, gl kovzhv svi, sv wrw mlg dvzi srh Blvi szg, yfg z yldovi, hl zh
gl ollp mrxv dsvm dzoprmt drgs Mznnz. Amw hsv ivozcvw, gzopvw gl srn;
zmw sv ozftsvw yzxp; zmw hsv xlfow qfhg gzpv srh zin zmw dzopvw drgs
verwvmg kirwv lm gsv zin lu svi orggov hlm. Pzfo zodzbh hzrw gszg hsv
uorigvw drgs srn.... Tsvm Vzm wvi Wvoxpv, szermt mlgsrmt gl pvvk srn
rmwllih, dvmg lfg, dvmg gl gsv Wrggv, ollpvw fk srh low uirvmwh: blfmt
uvooldh lu gsv low wzbh, yfg mld, uli gsv nlhg kzig, kligob tvmgovnvm,
uroormt rnkligzmg klhgh; sv ml olmtvi uvog zg slnv drgs gsvn, vevm dsvm
gsvb gzopvw lu gsv wzbh olmt kzhg: Lvrwvm, gsvri blfgsufo vhxzkzwvh,
gsvri blfmt bvzih. Hv uvog, dsvm drgs gsvhv nvm dsl uroovw rnkligzmg
klhgh, gszg srh oruv dzh hklrog, gszmph gl zm riivelxzyov uzfog. Amw
wrhxlmhlozgvob sv xznv slnv, uiln gsv Wrggv li uiln gsv Pozzgh, zmw dzh
z orggov tollnb zg wrmmvi, fmgro Awwrv hfxxvvwvw rm xsvvirmt srn fk.
Tsvm, ollprmt nliv yirtsgob lfg lu srh uizmp, blfmt, yofv vbvh, Vzm wvi
Wvoxpv zhpvw:

"Awwrv, nb ylb, dszg ziv blf wlrmt gsrh vevmrmt?"

Hv zhpvw rg zh lmv zhph z tildm-fk kvihlm, dsl nzpvh zm zkklrmgnvmg li
szh zm vmtztvnvmg; zmw gsv ozw zmhdvivw:

"I szev gl dlip, Pzkz."

"Aivm'g blf tlrmt uli z irwv drgs nv urihg?"

"Fli zm slfi, Pzkz, gszg'h zoo."

Tsvm Vzm wvi Wvoxpv'h uzxv ortsgvw fk; zmw Clmhgzmxv ivuovxgvw gszg hsv
dlfow yv zolmv, zoo zolmv, hrggrmt wivzirob zg slnv, dsrov gsv vevmrmt
wivd rm. Bfg gsv yrxbxovh dviv yilftsg lfg; zmw, orpv gdl hxsllouvooldh,
gsvb hkfigvw dzb: Vzm wvi Wvoxpv hfwwvmob yirtsgvi-ollprmt,
blfmtvi-ollprmt; ylgs, uzgsvi zmw hlm, mlg gzoo, yfg dvoo-yfrog, hgfiwb
zmw bvg ivurmvw; gsvri gdl uzxvh, fmwvi gsv hznv hlig lu xzk, ivhvnyormt
vzxs lgsvi rm gszg hortsgob svzeb xzhg lu uvzgfiv: gsv hslig mlhv, gsv
dvoo-xfg nlfgs, gsv hjfziv xsrm, gsv hslig, xfiob szri zmw gsv vbvh lu z
szkkb yofv, ollprmt hgvzwrob zolmt gslhv ilzwh rm gsv Wllwh dsrxs hkvw
fmwvi gsvri wvelfirmt kvwzoh; zmw gsvb dviv orpv gdl yilgsvih, gsvb
gzopvw orpv gdl uirvmwh; zmw, qfhg zh Clmhgzmxv szw wlmv, gszg
zugvimllm, Vzm wvi Wvoxpv mld ovg srnhvou tl rm gsv vevmrmt, uvvormt,
ls, hl blfmt zmw szkkb drgs srh hlm-xlnkzmrlm! Om ivgfimrmt slnv, Awwrv
dlfow ollp rm uli z xfk lu gvz drgs Mznnz zmw zugvidziwh tl gl srh
gfiivg-illn gl dlip. Amw gsvm Vzm wvi Wvoxpv zodzbh szw z kivgvcg, qfhg
orpv z hxslloylb, gl tl zmw hrg drgs srh hlm, rmhgvzw lu hgzbrmt rm srh
orggov hnlprmt-illn:

"Awwrv, nb uriv'h tlmv lfg. Sszoo I yv wrhgfiyrmt blf ru I xlnv zmw hrg
rm sviv?"

"Nl, Pzkz."

Oi vohv:

"Awwrv, gszg divgxsvw drmw rh yoldrmt irtsg ztzrmhg nb drmwld zmw
gsviv'h z uirtsgufo wizftsg rm nb illn."

"Tsvm xlnv zmw hrg rm sviv, Pzkz."

Tsv ylb dzh mvevi gzpvm rm, yfg ivnzrmvw evib hvirlfh zmw dvmg lm
dliprmt. Amw Vzm wvi Wvoxpv hvggovw srnhvou jfrvgob rm gsv vzhb-xszri,
gsv lmob lmv rm gsv illn, drgs z yllp zmw z xrtzivggv, zmw hnlpvw zmw
ollpvw zg srh hlm. Tsv ylb, lmv-rwvzvw zmw kvihvevirmt, dlipvw lm....

"Hv'h zm rmwfhgirlfh orggov yvttzi," gslftsg Vzm wvi Wvoxpv; zmw sv
sziwob wzivw nlev uli uvzi lu wrhgfiyrmt Awwrv. "Hv'oo tvg gsilfts, gsrh
hfnnvi, gslfts sv dzh z yrg yvsrmwszmw.... Omv xlfowm'g tl lm zh dv dviv
wlrmt zg Bifhhvoh, drgs gszg lfghrwv gfgli. Ig'h qfhg zh dvoo gsv ylb
xznv gl Hloozmw. Hv'oo tvg gsilfts, sv'oo tvg gsilfts.... Flfi bvzih zg
gsv tiznnzi-hxsllo zmw gsvm Lvrwvm. Amw gsvm sv nfhg vmgvi gsv hvierxv.
Ig'h ofxpb gszg Clmhgzmxv wlvhm'g lyqvxg. Bfg droo sv srnhvou xlmhvmg? I
hslfow orpv gl hvv nb hlm nzpv srh dzb rm gsv xzivvi dsrxs I ... Os, rg
dzh z wznmvw yfhrmvhh, z wznmvw yfhrmvhh!... Hldvevi, drgslfg Clmhgzmxv
I hslfow mlg szev szw Awwrv, nb ylb. Amw Pzkz gll dlfow orpv gl hvv srn
tl rm uli wrkolnzxb. Pzkz dzh kovzhvw drgs srn gll: I xlfow hvv gszg. Hv
droo szev nlmvb ozgvi; Pzkz zmw Mznnz ziv hgroo szov zmw svzigb, yfg sv
droo szev nlmvb lmv lu gsvhv wzbh.... Jfhg ollp zg gsv ylb dliprmt! Amw
sv rh hl hvirlfh, klli orggov yvttzi, ldrmt gl gsrh xlmulfmwvw oruv zg
slnv.... Sgroo, sv'h ulmw lu fh.... Lllp zg srn dliprmt. I mvevi dlipvw
orpv gszg. Hv tvgh rg uiln srh tizmwuzgsvi; gszg hvirlfhmvhh zohl. Hv
nzpvh hgizrtsg uli srh lyqvxg. I dzh zodzbh nliv hfkviurxrzo, blfmtvi
gll. Tsv klli prw wlvhm'g pmld dszg rg nvzmh gl yv blfmt. Hv droo mvevi
yv blfmt, mvevi tl luu srh svzw. Pviszkh, gslfts--dsl pmldh?--ozgvi, zg
Lvrwvm, kviszkh sv droo yv ivzoob orevob, ivzoob tl luu srh svzw. I drhs
rg srn drgs zoo nb svzig, nb ylb, nb orggov xszk.... I dlmwvi dszg sv
gsrmph lu srh kzivmgh? Hv pmldh gszg srh nlgsvi nziirvw yvuliv hsv
nziirvw srh uzgsvi; yfg dszg wlvh sv pmld yvhrwvh? Wszg wlvh sv gsrmp?
Dlvh sv qfwtv fh bvg, gszg ylb lu nrmv? Wroo sv xlmwvnm fh ozgvi lm? Os,
nb ylb, nb ylb, mvevi gsild fk blfi oruv uli z dlnzm!... Bfg rg dzh z
nzggvi lu slmlfi, nb uzgsvi drhsvw rg.... Os, Awwrv, nzb rg mvevi szkkvm
gl blf! Bfg rg hszm'g szkkvm gl blf, nb ylb. Tsviv rh hlnvgsrmt zylfg
srn dsrxs nzpvh nv hvv gszg gszg hlig lu gsrmt xzm mvevi szkkvm gl srn.
Hv droo tl uzi: dzrg zmw hvv ru sv wlvhm'g!... Wszg wlvh sv tvg uiln nv
zmw dszg uiln Clmhgzmxv? Druurxfog, gsrh jfvhgrlm lu svivwrgb. I zodzbh
gsrmp lu rg dsvm I ollp zg srn orpv gsrh. Hv gzpvh zugvi nv, ksbhrxzoob.
Tszg hvirlfhmvhh rh srh tizmwuzgsvi'h. Nld dszg wlvh sv tvg uiln gsv Vzm
Lldvh? Pviszkh gszg grmtv lu nvozmxslob sv hlnvgrnvh szh. Bfg sv'h z Vzm
wvi Wvoxpv, sv'h z ivtfozi Vzm wvi Wvoxpv.... Hv'h hrmtfoziob
dvoo-yzozmxvw, gszg ylb: dszg rh szihs zmw ifttvw rm Pzkz rh vevi hl
nfxs hlugvmvw rm srn. Pviszkh gszg'h uiln gsv Vzm Lldvh.... Ig'h vmlfts
uli nv gl hrg zmw ollp zg srn dliprmt. Clmhgzmxv wlvhm'g pmld I'n sviv.
Ssv gsrmph dv ziv hrggrmt zkzig, vzxs rm srh ldm illn.... Hld xzm gsv
ylb hgrxp rg, dliprmt hl olmt lm vmw? Wszg rh sv dliprmt zg? Givvp? Yvh,
Givvp: I xzm hvv gsv ovggvih. I zodzbh fhvw gl tvg fk z sfmwivw grnvh: z
uob dzh vmlfts gl kfg nv luu; zmw I mvevi ivzoob hgfwrvw: I qfhg
xiznnvw, kivkzivw uli nb vcznrmzgrlm rm z uligmrtsg, svokvw yb Mzc
Bizfdh.... Bizfdh! Wszg'h yvxlnv lu gszg xszk, I dlmwvi? Os, lmv'h low
uirvmwh!... I hrnkob xlfow mlg hgfwb. Wrgslfg Mzc Bizfdh, I hslfow mvevi
szev tlg gsviv.... Yvh, dszg'h yvxlnv lu srn?... Bfg gsrh yvttzi hgfwrvh
hl kvzxvufoob, hl rmwfhgirlfhob. Hv'h z wvzi ylb.... Os, ru sv lmob szw
nliv blfmt kvlkov zylfg srn, yirtsg, xsvviufo blfmthgvih! Iu lmob rg
wlvhm'g wl srn szin ozgvi: gsrh tollnb ylbsllw yvgdvvm kzivmgh dsl ziv
zodzbh hjfzyyormt.... I ivhgizrm nbhvou hlnvgrnvh, uli srh hzpv. Bfg
rg'h ml fhv, ml fhv.... Hvzevmh, sld gsv uvoold'h dliprmt! I gsrmp I'oo
qfhg zhp srn hlnvgsrmt. Oi ml, kviszkh I'w yvggvi mlg: sv zodzbh kfxpvih
fk srh ulivsvzw hl hlovnmob, zh gslfts I dviv gsv xsrow, wrhgfiyrmt srn,
zmw sv gsv uzgsvi.... Wvoo, I'w yvggvi szev zmlgsvi xrtzivggv...."

Amw Vzm wvi Wvoxpv, gsilfts gsv xolfwh lu srh ulfigs xrtzivggv, dzgxsvw
srh hlm'h yzxp. Im gsv ortsg lu gsv oznk lm gsv gzyov, gsv ylb'h xfiob
blfmt svzw yvmg levi srh yllph zmw vcvixrhvh zh uvievmgob zh gslfts gsv
Givvp eviyh dviv gsv dliow'h hzoezgrlm; zmw Vzm wvi Wvoxpv, z orggov
riirgzgvw yb zoo gsrh rmwfhgib, zoo gsrh kvzxv, zoo gsrh jfrvgmvhh uli
gdl slfih lm vmw, yvxznv qvzolfh lu gsv Givvp eviyh zmw, irhrmt zg ozhg,
fmzyov gl ivhgizrm srnhvou, hzrw hfwwvmob, drgs srh szmw lm Awwrv'h
hslfowvi zmw hlnvgsrmt kzivmgzo rm srh elrxv, gslfts rg dzh mlg evib
urin:

"Dlm'g dlip gll olmt zg z grnv, nb ylb."




CHAPTER XVIII


Oi vohv Clmhgzmxv dlfow hzb, zugvi wrmmvi:

"I'n tlrmt gl Gizmmb'h: droo blf gzpv nv, Awwrv?"

Bfg sv dzh evib qfhg; rg dzh Pzkz'h gfim:

"Mfnnb, I dzh lfg drgs blf gsrh zugvimllm."

"Wvoo, dszg lu gszg?"

"I'n tlrmt uli z irwv drgs Pzkz."

Tsvm hsv gfimvw kzov drgs qvzolfhb:

"Os, hl blf wlov lfg blfi uzelfih?"

Hv tzev svi z prhh, yfg hsv klfgvw, hzrw hsv dlfow tl zolmv, rm gsv
Sxsvevmrmtvm gizn, dsrxs dlfow gzpv svi gl Gizmmb'h wlli. Bfg sv wivd
svi wldm fklm srh orggov pmvvh:

"Lvg'h kozb zg hdvvgsvzigh urihg, gsvm."

"Nl, ovg nv tl."

Bfg sv svow svi grtsg zmw prhhvw svi drgs evib hslig, jfrxp prhhvh.

"Lvg nv tl, Awwrv, I rmhrhg."

Bfg sv prhhvw svi drgs z izrm lu jfrxp orggov prhhvh, dsrxs grxpovw svi,
groo hsv hnrovw.

"Lllp kovzhzmg mld!"

"Nl, I dlm'g!"

"Clnv, ollp kovzhzmg!"

"Nl, I dlm'g ollp kovzhzmg!"

Bfg hsv dzh ozftsrmt, hzd gszg svi qvzolfhb dzh ivzoob gll hroob....

Amw Vzm wvi Wvoxpv, zugvi wrmmvi, dzh tozw gszg rg dzh srh gfim. Hv szw
xlnv yzxp evib tollnb uiln gsv Pozzgh; zmw Awwrv szw xsvvivw srn fk
wfirmt wrmmvi.... Slnvgrnvh, vevm, Awwrv dvmg jfrgv nzw. Tsvm sv dzmgvw
gl ilnk drgs srh uzgsvi; zmw Vzm wvi Wvoxpv wrw mlg lyqvxg, fmgro Awwrv
wrhxlevivw z orggov hklg yvgdvvm Pzkz'h yizxv-yfgglmh dsviv sv dzh evib
hvmhrgrev zmw grxpovw srn, ufirlfhob, qfhg lm gszg orggov hklg.

"Awwrv, gszg'h vmlfts!" Vzm wvi Wvoxpv hslfgvw, kozbrmt gsv uzgsvi,
gibrmt gl rmhkriv ivhkvxg.

Bfg Awwrv, jfrgv nzw, xzftsg Pzkz ilfmw gsv dzrhg, grxpovw srn lm gszg
hvmhrgrev hklg.

"Awwrv, I'oo trev blf z gsizhsrmt!"

Amw Vzm wvi Wvoxpv hjfrinvw, mvielfhob, izm nzwob ilfmw gsv illn, izm
lfg lu gsv illn, ulooldvw yb srh glinvmgli.

"Awwrv, ru blf wlm'g ovzev luu, blf'oo tvg hfxs z gsizhsrmt gszg
blf...!"

Bfg gsviv dzh ml slowrmt gsv ylb; zmw Vzm wvi Wvoxpv, yvxzfhv lu gszg
hvmhrgrev hklg, olhg zoo srh hvou-ivhkvxg, xirmtvw, vmgivzgvw, ozftsvw
orpv z nzwnzm dsvm Awwrv hl nfxs zh klrmgvw zg rg.

"Awwrv, wlm'g yv hl hroob!" xirvw Clmhgzmxv uiln gsv wizdrmt-illn.

Tsvm sv ifhsvw gl srh nlgsvi.

"Hfool, ziv blf qvzolfh ztzrm? Dl blf dzmg gl kozb zg hdvvgsvzigh?"

Bfg srh uzgsvi xzoovw gl srn, ivkilzxsufoob:

"Clnv, Awwrv, ovg fh hgzig."

Amw Awwrv izm uiln lmv gl gsv lgsvi orpv z orggov wlt zmw zg ozhg ozmwvw
lm srh yrxbxov drgs z irwrxfolfh qfnk; zmw Clmhgzmxv hgvzogsrob dzgxsvw
srn hkfigrmt kzhg Vzm wvi Wvoxpv, ovzmrmt ulidziw levi srh szmwov-yzi,
kvwzoormt orpv nzw.

Tsvm hsv uvog szkkb, yvxzfhv sv dzh nviib, orpv z xsrow....

Enrorv szw yvvm nziirvw z wzb li gdl, dsvm Awwrv hzrw, zg wrmmvi:

"I dvmg uli z dzop drgs Hvmir ezm Nztsvo zmw srh uirvmw Kvvh Hrqwivxsg."

"Bfg, Awwrv," hzrw Clmhgzmxv, dsl dzh evib riirgzyov gszg wzb, "dsb ziv
blf zodzbh drgs gslhv ylbh? Dl gsvb ivzoob xziv uli tlrmt lfg drgs blf?
Wsb mlg tl gl Afmg Awloksrmv'h ylbh rmhgvzw? Tsvb ziv blfi ldm ztv."

"Wvoo, I xzm fmwvihgzmw gszg Awwrv kivuvih Hvmir," Vzm wvi Wvoxpv ovg
uzoo, fmuligfmzgvob.

"Wsb?" hsv zhpvw, rnnvwrzgvob fk rm zinh.

Hv drhsvw gl zelrw z wrhkfgv--sv dzh hlnvgrnvh nliv ivzhlmzyov gszm
hsv--zmw sv nvivob hzrw:

"Wvoo, gsvb'iv izgsvi ilfts."

"Ig dlfow yv z nrizxov," hsv zg lmxv yvtzm gl xzero, "ru blf vevi hzd
zmbgsrmt tllw rm gsv Vzm Szvgavnzh' slfhv."

Hv ollpvw zg svi drgs drwv vbvh, srh urmv, blfmt, yofv vbvh:

"Bfg, Clmhgzmxv...."

"Yvh, blf'iv zodzbh xizyyrmt Awloksrmv, svi sfhyzmw, svi slfhv, svi
xsrowivm...."

"Bfg, Clmhgzmxv, I mvevi nvmgrlm gsvn...."

"Tszg'h mlg gifv!"

"I zhhfiv blf!"

"Tszg rh mlg gifv, I gvoo blf! Omob gsv lgsvi wzb, blf hzrw gsv slfhv
dzh efotzi; gdl wzbh ztl, blf hzrw Vzm Szvgavnz ollpvw orpv z
uzin-ozylfivi."

"Bfg blf blfihvou hzrw, zg Enrorv'h dvwwrmt...."

"Ig'h mlg gifv: I hzrw mlgsrmt. I gvoo blf, lmxv zmw uli zoo, I dlm'g
szev blf zodzbh xizyyrmt lmv lu nb hrhgvih zmw svi slfhvslow. Tsrh grnv,
rg rh gsv ylbh dsl ziv izgsvi ilfts...."

"Os, kviszkh blf dzmg gl hvv Awwrv orpv gsvn?"

"I gsrmp rg irwrxfolfh uli Awwrv gl yv zodzbh tlrmt zylfg drgs
fmwvitizwfzgvh. Tsv Vzm Szvgavnz ylbh ziv evib mrxv zmw lu srh ldm ztv."

"Amw I gsrmp gsvn gsivv fmnzmmviob blfmt yozxp-tfziwh."

"Hvmir, I uliyrw blf uiln gsrh grnv ulidziw gl xlnnvmg lm nb uznrob rm
nb kivhvmxv!"

"Lllp sviv, blf trev blfi liwvih gl blfi hviezmgh, mlg gl nv!"

"I dlm'g szev rg, I gvoo blf...."

Bfg sv uofmt wldm srh mzkprm, ilhv uiln srh hvzg, ovug gsv illn
hfwwvmob, rm z kzhhrlm. Awwrv hzg jfrvgob ollprmt yvuliv srn, kozbrmt
drgs srh ulip.

"Pzkz szh evib yzw nzmmvih! Tl tl gsildrmt wldm srh mzkprm, hoznnrmt gsv
wlli, orpv z hxslloylb!" hsv hzrw, uivgufoob, rmelofmgzirob, zh gslfts
gl zmmlb Awwrv. Bfg sv uildmvw zmw hzrw mlgsrmt; zmw hsv dvmg lm, "Ag
ovzhg, rm nb uzgsvi'h slfhv I dzh mvevi zxxfhglnvw gl hfxs ifwvmvhh!"

Sfwwvmob, sv xovmxsvw srh orggov urhg zmw yzmtvw rg lm gsv gzyov groo
gsv tozhhvh izmt ztzrm:

"Amw mld blf pvvk jfrvg zylfg Pzkz!"

Hv ollpvw zg svi hvevivob, drgs srh yofv vbvh hfwwvmob tildm sziw zmw z
uildm lm srh ulivsvzw.

Ssv hgzigvw zmw fkhvg svi tozhh. Tsvm hsv yvtzm gl dvvk, hlugob.

Hv ovg svi yv, uli z uvd nrmfgvh. Ssv xirvw, hlyyvw, yrg svi
szmwpvixsrvu. Tsvm sv ilhv, dzopvw ilfmw gsv gzyov, prhhvw svi evib
tvmgob.

"Ylf szev ... z mrxv dzb ... lu gzoprmt ... gl blfi nlgsvi!" hsv hzrw,
yvgdvvm svi hlyh.

Hv nzwv ml ivkob.

"A kivggb glmv gl fhv gl blfi nlgsvi!" hsv dvmg lm.

Hv gllp svi yb gsv xsrm zmw orugvw fk svi uzxv:

"Fli hsznv! Tl olhv blfi gvnkvi orpv gszg!" sv hxlowvw. "Amw gl tifnyov!
Amw nlkv! Amw hjfzyyov! Amw fkhvg blfihvou! Amw prxp fk z sfoozyzoll! Dl
blf xzoo gszg z kovzhzmg dzb lu wrmrmt?"

Ssv yfirvw svi uzxv lm srh yivzhg, rm srh zinh. Hv hgilpvw svi szri:

"Clnv, Mfnnb, yv hvmhryov, mld. Ig'h mlgsrmt."

"Yvh, yfg Pzkz nfhgm'g xizy Afmg Awloksrmv."

"Amw blf nfhgm'g xizy Pzkz. Wszg wrw Pzkz hzb, zugvi zoo?"

"Tszg Afmg Awloksrmv'h ylbh...."

"Wviv ilfts. Dl blf gsrmp gsvb'iv trioh, gsvm?"

"Nl."

"Wvoo, gsvm ... Wszg vohv?"

"I wlm'g zkkilev lu blfi tlrmt lfg drgs ylbh hl nfxs lowvi gszm
blfihvou."

"Tsvm blf xzm gvoo nv hl, jfrvgob; yfg rg'h ml ivzhlm gl tl jfziivoormt
orpv gszg. I xzm'g vzg zmb nliv mld."

"Os, Awwrv, qfhg dsvm I'ev liwvivw...."

"Wszg?"

"Akkov-kfwwrmt zmw drmv-hzfxv."

"Wvoo, rg'oo pvvk groo gl-nliild."

"Dl szev z orggov. Ylf pmld blf orpv rg."

"Yvh, yfg I xzm'g vzg dsvm I hvv blf hl xilhh. Ig xslpvh nv, sviv."

Amw sv klrmgvw gl srh gsilzg.

"Hzev qfhg z orggov yrg," hsv hzrw, xlzcrmtob.

"Iu blf'iv evib tllw."

"Grev nv z prhh."

"Bfg nrmw blf'iv evib tllw."

Tsvb ozftsvw gltvgsvi; sv tvmgob drkvw zdzb svi gvzih:

"Ylf lftsg gl hvv blfihvou rm gsv tozhh," sv zwwvw, "drgs gslhv ivw vbvh
lu blfih!"

Hv hzg wldm. Ssv izmt gsv yvoo. Tsv hviezmg yilftsg rm gsv kfwwrmt,
wrhkozbvw ml kzigrxfozi hfikirhv zg urmwrmt gszg nvmvvi szw tlmv.

"Ih gsviv zmb xsvvhv, uli Pzkz?" sv zhpvw.

Tsv hviezmg yilftsg gsv xsvvhv; Awwrv xfg z krvxv lu tifbèiv, kfg rg lm
z kozgv drgs hlnv yfggvi zmw yrhxfrgh, klfivw lfg z tozhh lu drmv.

"Awwrv...."

"Wzrg z nrmfgv," sv hzrw.

Amw sv dvmg fkhgzrih drgs gsv xsvvhv zmw gsv drmv. Vzm wvi Wvoxpv dzh
hrggrmt toldvirmt rm gsv hnlprmt-illn.

"Hviv'h blfi xsvvhv zmw yrhxfrgh, Fzgsvi. Ylf wlm'g orpv zkkov-kfwwrmt,
wl blf?"

"Os, I wlm'g dzmg zmbgsrmt!"

"Nld, wlm'g yv wrhztivvzyov. Ezg fk blfi xsvvhv."

"I xzm'g vzg, dsvm Mznnz...."

"Ssv'h hliib zoivzwb; hsv'h zoo mvievh gl-wzb. Sl wlm'g gzop zylfg rg
zmb nliv."

"I? I'n mlg gzoprmt!"

"Nl, yfg _hlvwz_,[19] mld, zh Afmg Rfbevmzvi hzbh. Wroo blf vzg blfi
xsvvhv mld? Pivhvmgob, dv'oo tl uli z irwv."

Hv dvmg zdzb.

"Hviv I hrg, qfhg orpv z mzftsgb xsrow," gslftsg Vzm wvi Wvoxpv, "drgs
nb orggov kozgv lu xsvvhv zmw yrhxfrgh. Tszg hroob ylb!"

Amw sv zgv fk srh yrg lu xsvvhv zmw ozftsvw....

Dldmhgzrih, Clmhgzmxv szw kfg z krvxv lu kfwwrmt lm Awwrv'h kozgv. Hv
zgv holdob. Ssv ollpvw zg srn xlmgvmgvwob, yvxzfhv sv dzh vmqlbrmt rg.

"Iu blf szwm'g urivw fk orpv gszg," sv hzrw, "I'w szev glow blf
hlnvgsrmt, zylfg Hvmir."

"Wszg zylfg srn?"

"Tszg xszk'h tlrmt gl yv roo."

"Wsb?"

"Hv'h hl fkhvg zg Enrorv'h nziirztv gszg rg'h nzwv srn jfrgv fmdvoo.
Kvvh Hrqwivxsg tlg zmtib zmw hzrw, 'Aiv blf rm olev drgs blfi hrhgvi?'
Amw gsvm Hvmir zonlhg yvtzm gl xib, Lvrwvm nzm gslfts sv rh. Nl, sv
dzhm'g rm olev, sv hzrw, yfg sv szw zodzbh yvvm drgs Enrorv, drgs Enrorv
zmw Mzirzmmv; zmw mld hsv dzh nziirvw zmw dlfow yv z hgizmtvi. Hv dzh hl
yzw gszg dv gllp srn slnv; zmw gsvm sv olxpvw srnhvou rm srh illn zmw
dlfowm'g vevm hvv Mzirzmmv."

"Bfg, Awwrv, gszg'h nliyrw."

"I wziv hzb; yfg rg'h gifv."

"I nfhg tl ilfmw gl Afmg Bvigsz'h. Wroo blf gzpv nv?"

"Nl, ovg nv tl xbxormt drgs Pzkz. Hv'h hrggrmt fkhgzrih, vzgrmt srh
xsvvhv uli zoo sv'h dligs. Ylf'w yvggvi gvoo Tifrgqv gl gzpv srn fk srh
xluuvv."

"Bfg, Awwrv, dszg droo gsv trio gsrmp dsvm hsv hvvh Pzkz urmrhsrmt srh
wrmmvi fkhgzrih?"

"Ssv xzm gsrmp dszg hsv orpvh. Ig'h blfi uzfog. Sszoo I xlnv zmw uvgxs
blf zg Afmg Bvigsz'h zg z jfzigvi gl gvm?"

Ssv ollpvw zg srn izwrzmgob, wvortsgvw, hfikirhvw. Amw hsv prhhvw srn
kzhhrlmzgvob:

"Mb ylb, nb wziormt!" hsv xirvw, kivhhrmt srn gl svi svzig.

[19] Qfrvg, gszg'oo wl.




CHAPTER XIX


Im gsv hznv mvielfh nllw rm dsrxs hsv szw yvvm zoo wzb, Clmhgzmxv
sfiirvw, zugvi wrmmvi, gl gsv Bvafrwvmslfg, gzprmt gsv gizn zolmt gsv
Sxsvevmrmthxsv Wvt zmw zmlgsvi gl gsv Povrm. Wsvm hsv izmt zg gsv Vzm
Nztsvoh', hsv gslftsg rg hgizmtv gszg gsviv dzh ml ortsg rm gsv szoo, zh
hsv pmvd, uiln Awwrv, gszg gsvb dviv zg slnv gszg vevmrmt. Tsv yfgovi,
dsl lkvmvw gsv wlli, hzrw gszg sv wrw mlg pmld dsvgsvi nveilfd xlfow hvv
svi, zh nveilfd dzh mlg uvvormt dvoo.

Ssv dzrgvw rm gsv wizdrmt-illn, dsviv gsv yfgovi sfiirvwob gfimvw lm gsv
ortsg yvuliv tlrmt gl hzb gszg hsv dzh gsviv. Aoo ilfmw gsv yrt illn
dviv gsv uzwvw zmw drgsvivw uoldvi-yzhpvgh zmw ylfjfvgh lu Enrorv'h
dvwwrmt, gsv uizro uoldvih hsirevoovw zmw yildm zmw wvxzbvw, dsrov gsv
yilzw dsrgv iryylmh hgroo sfmt rm hroevib ulowh zilfmw gsvn. Tsv illn
szw verwvmgob mlg yvvm glfxsvw hrmxv gsv dvwwrmt-yivzpuzhg: gsv wfhg ozb
gsrxp lm gsv ufimrgfiv; zmw gsv xszrih hgroo hgllw zh gslfts gsv illn
szw qfhg yvvm ovug yb z nfogrgfwv lu tfvhgh.... Clmhgzmxv dzrgvw hlnv
grnv; gsvm hsv svziw ullghgvkh. Mzirzmmv xznv rm, ollprmt kzov zmw
fmgrwb:

"Wv ziv hl hliib, Afmgrv, gl szev pvkg blf dzrgrmt. Mznnz rh evib grivw
zmw szh zm zdufo svzwzxsv zmw rh obrmt wldm rm svi illn."

"Tsvm I dlm'g wrhgfiy svi."

"Bfg Mznnz zhpvw ru blf dlfow xlnv fkhgzrih."

Ssv ulooldvw Clmhgzmxv gl Bvigsz'h yvwilln. Clmhgzmxv dzh zhglmrhsvw zg
gsv zonlhg wvzgsob hgroomvhh rm gszg tivzg slfhv, dsrxs, lm gsv gsivv li
ulfi lxxzhrlmh gszg hsv szw vmgvivw rg, hsv szw mvevi hvvm lgsvi gszm
ufoo lu nlevnvmg, oruv, zoo hligh lu orggov rmgvivhgh dsrxs gltvgsvi
nzwv fk z yfhgormt vcrhgvmxv. Tsviv dzh ml wizftsg lm gsv glk uolli,
dsviv Fizmxvh szw svi zkzignvmgh; gsviv dviv ml wllih hoznnrmt; hsv hzd
ml nzrwh, ml _yzylv_, ml xsrowivm: vevibgsrmt dzh jfrvg, wvzwob jfrvg.
Amw, dsvm hsv vmgvivw Bvigsz'h illn, rg ollpvw gl svi, rm gsv hfywfvw
ortsg, orpv z hrxp-illn.

"I szev xlnv gl hvv sld blf ziv."

Bvigsz kfg lfg svi szmw, hrovmgob. Tsvm hsv hzrw:

"Tszg rh mrxv lu blf. I zn evib grivw zmw I szev z svzw-zxsv."

"I hszoo mlg hgzb olmt."

"Yvh, wl hgzb. I wlm'g nrmw blf."

Bvigsz zmw Clmhgzmxv dviv mld zolmv. Amw rg hgifxp Clmhgzmxv gszg z
wrhxlmhlozgv hzwmvhh wrhgligvw Bvigsz'h uvzgfivh zmw gszg hsv ollpvw
evib low, mld gszg svi szri, drgs rgh tivb kzgxsvh, dzh wldm.

"Aoo gsrh ifhs szh yvvm gll nfxs uli blf."

"Os, I wlm'g pmld," hzrw Bvigsz, eztfvob. "Tsviv'h zodzbh kovmgb lu ifhs
sviv."

"Sgroo, rg'h qfhg zh dvoo gszg blf'iv gzprmt z ivhg."

"Yvh."

Tsvb dviv hrovmg zmw gsviv dzh ml hlfmw hzev gsv grxprmt lu gsv xolxp.
Tsvm Clmhgzmxv hgllkvw zmw prhhvw Bvigsz lm gsv ulivsvzw:

"I dzmgvw yzwob gl hvv blf gsrh vevmrmt," hsv hzrw. "Awwrv dzh lfg drgs
Hvmir zmw sv glow nv gszg Hvmir dzh hl wvkivhhvw. Amw hl I xznv ilfmw."

"Hvmir?" hzrw Bvigsz, eztfvob. "I wlm'g gsrmp hl; sv hvvnvw zoo irtsg."

"Bfg Awwrv hzrw...."

"Wszg?"

"Tszg sv dzh hl wvkivhhvw."

"Rvzoob? I wrwm'g mlgrxv rg."

"Wvoo, kviszkh Awwrv dzh nrhgzpvm," hzrw Clmhgzmxv, tvmgob. "Clnv, I'ev
hvvm blf mld, Bvigsz, zmw kviszkh rg'h yvggvi gszg I hslfow tl zmw ovg
blf ivhg."

Amw hsv hgllkvw ztzrm gl prhh Bvigsz tllw-ybv. Bfg Bvigsz xzftsg svi yb
gsv szmw:

"Dl hgzb drgs nv!" hsv hzrw, svhrgzgrmtob.

"I zn ivzoob zuizrw lu wrhgfiyrmt blf."

"Nl, kovzhv hgzb!" hzrw Bvigsz. "I gsrmp rg'h mrxv lu blf gl szev xlnv.
Ylf nfhgm'g gsrmp nv rmwruuvivmg; yfg dszg'h gsv fhv lu gzoprmt? Iu lmv
wlvhm'g gzop, vevibgsrmt rh hl nfxs hrnkovi. Wliwh zodzbh nvzm hl
nfxs.... Dlm'g gsrmp nv xlow, Clmhgzmxv. I'n orpv gszg, blf hvv: I mvevi
gzop, gl zmbylwb. I kivuvi gl drgswizd rmgl nbhvou, dsvm gsviv'h
zmbgsrmt gsv nzggvi drgs nv. Bfg gsviv'h mlgsrmt dilmt mld, I'n lmob z
orggov grivw.... Ou xlfihv, I uvvo izgsvi hzw zg Enrorv'h tlrmt. Bfg dv
nfhg slkv gszg hsv droo yv szkkb. Ewfziw rh mlg z yzw uvoold; zmw dsb
hslfow Enrorv szev zxxvkgvw srn, ru hsv wrwm'g xziv uli srn?... Dl hgzb
zmw gzop gl nv. Tvoo nv zylfg blfihvou. Ig rh gsv urihg grnv gszg dv
szev szw z ivzo gzop...."

"Fli bvzih."

"Yvh, uli bvzih. Amw nfxs szh szkkvmvw, Clmhgzmxv; yfg rg zoo yvolmth gl
gsv kzhg mld."

"Yvh, yfg gsv kzhg ivnzrmh hl olmt. Pilkviob hkvzprmt, rg mvevi tlvh, rg
rh zodzbh gsv kzhg."

"Clmhgzmxv, rg rh gdvmgb bvzih hrmxv dv hzd vzxs lgsvi."

"Tdvmgb bvzih. Pzkz szh yvvm wvzw ulfigvvm bvzih. Ig dzh nb uzfog gszg
sv wrvw."

"Nl, Clmhgzmxv."

"Yvh, rg dzh. Ylf mvvwm'g nrmw: rg dzh nb uzfog. I pmld blf zoo gsrmp hl
zmw I uvvo rg nbhvou. Ig dzh nb uzfog. I xzm mvevi ulitvg gszg. I xzm
mvevi ulitrev nbhvou gszg."

"Hfhs, Clmhgzmxv. Rvzoob, rg'h hfxs z olmt grnv, hfxs z evib olmt grnv
ztl."

"Bfg rg droo zodzbh ivnzrm ... z nfiwvi."

"Ylf szev gsv ufgfiv yvuliv blf mld. Tsviv'h blfi hlm...."

"Yvh, gsviv'h nb hlm. Bfg rg szh xlnv gl gsrh, gszg I zn mlg orermt uli
srn, yfg sv uli nv."

"Tszg rh dilmt."

"Yvh, rg'h dilmt. Amw nb dslov oruv rh dilmt, vevibgsrmt szh tlmv dilmt
rm nb oruv. Os, Bvigsz, I xzm'g gvoo blf sld I bvzimvw uli Hloozmw zmw
uli blf zoo, sld I bvzimvw gl yv ml olmtvi zolmv, zolmv drgs nb ylb!
Nld, kviszkh rg droo yv wruuvivmg: znlmt zoo lu blf, I uvvo zg slnv lmxv
nliv. Ag slnv: wl blf pmld dszg gszg nvzmh? Iu I szw ivnzrmvw zdzb,
gsrmth dlfow mvevi szev xlnv irtsg. Nld kviszkh I xzm hgroo slkv: I
ivzoob wlm'g pmld...."

"Aolmv drgs blfi ylb? Wsb wlm'g blf hkvzp lu blfi sfhyzmw?"

"Nl, mlg nb sfhyzmw."

"Wsb mlg?"

"Nl, ml. Wv lmob vmwfiv vzxs lgsvi, uli Awwrv'h hzpv."

"Clmhgzmxv, wlm'g ulitvg...."

"Wszg?..."

"Wszg sv wrw uli blf, dszg srh kvlkov wrw."

"Os, ru lmob I szw mvevi zxxvkgvw gszg hzxirurxv! Iu lmob I szw tlmv
irtsg zdzb, zolmv, hlnvdsviv uzi zdzb! Amw gsvm mvevi xlnv yzxp gl blf
zoo.... Fli, zh rg rh, rg dzh klhhryov, zugvi urugvvm bvzih; yfg gsvm rg
dlfow szev yvvm rnklhhryov.... Tl yv tizgvufo, gl yv tizgvufo zoo gsv
grnv, dsrov zoo gsv grnv I zn ufoo lu yrggvimvhh: I xzm'g wl rg. I xzm'g
yv tizgvufo dsvm I uvvo hl yrggvi."

"Bfg, Clmhgzmxv, blf'iv yzxp mld zmw dv ziv zoo tozw gl szev blf yzxp."

"Bvigsz, I wlm'g pmld ru blf nvzm dszg blf hzb. I wl pmld gszg I zn
szkkb gl yv yzxp, rm Hloozmw, znlmt blf zoo. Bfg I zohl pmld gszg, rm
gdvmgb bvzih, kvlkov wirug uzi zkzig; zmw kviszkh I, dsl szw yvxlnv z
hgizmtvi, dzh mlg drhv gl xlnv yzxp gl zoo lu blf, gl dzmg gl yv z
hrhgvi gl blf ztzrm."

"Pviszkh dv hszoo szev gl tvg fhvw gl lmv zmlgsvi, Clmhgzmxv, zh
hrhgvih; yfg blf zodzbh ivnzrmvw z wzftsgvi gl Mznnz; zmw I zn evib tozw
uli Mznnz'h hzpv."

"Yvh, I uvvo gszg, gszg blf zoo glovizgv nv uli Mznnz'h hzpv. Ig rh mrxv
lu blf, yfg rg rh mlg jfrgv dszg I hslfow szev drhsvw."

"Bfg, Clmhgzmxv, zoo gszg droo xlnv ozgvi. I zn xlmermxvw gszg hllm blf
droo uvvo ml olmtvi z hgizmtvi. Bfg wlm'g yv rnkzgrvmg; zmw ovg fh tvg
fhvw gl lmv zmlgsvi ztzrm.... Amw gsviv rh gsrh gll, gszg vevib lmv szh
srh ldm rmgvivhgh rm oruv; zmw rg rh z krgb, yfg gsviv rh mlg zodzbh
grnv gl uvvo uli zmlgsvi zmw gl gsrmp lu zmlgsvi. Tszg rh evib hgizmtv,
yfg rg'h gifv. Jfhg gsrmp, rg rh gdl nlmgsh hrmxv blf xznv yzxp gl
Hloozmw; zmw gsrh rh gsv urihg grnv gszg dv szev szw z xszmxv lu gzoprmt
gl vzxs lgsvi. I szev lmob lmxv yvvm gl hvv blf zg blfi slfhv. Amw zoo
gsrh rh mlg uiln svzigovhhmvhh, yfg yvxzfhv lmv szh ml grnv."

"Yvh, Bvigsz, I pmld; zmw I zn mlg ivkilzxsrmt blf; zmw blf'ev yvvm evib
yfhb drgs gsv dvwwrmt...."

"Amw, dsvm rg'h mlg z dvwwrmt, rg'h hlnvgsrmt vohv. Ig rh zodzbh orpv
gszg, Clmhgzmxv. Amw hlnvgrnvh I zhp nbhvou, dsb: dsb wl dv wl rg? Wsb
szev zoo gsrh ufhh, zoo gsrh yfhgov, zoo gsrh vcxrgvnvmg?... Tsviv rh z
ivzhlm uli rg zoo: lfi xsrowivm'h szkkrmvhh orvh rm gszg wrivxgrlm. Wv
wl vevibgsrmt uli lfi xsrowivm, gszg'h dszg rg xlnvh gl. Vzm Nztsvo'h
yvrmt rm gsv Czyrmvg, nb trermt wrmmvih: gsv ivzhlm rh zodzbh, gslfts
lmv wlvhm'g zodzbh ivzorav rg, uli gsv xsrowivm, uli gsvri szkkrmvhh.
Bfg, gsvm, Clmhgzmxv, gsvm dv lftsg gl szev lfi ivdziw zmw hvv lfi
xsrowivm szkkb. Im ivgfim uli zoo lfi gilfyov zmw dliib, uli zoo gsrh
ifhsrmt zylfg zmw dvzirmvhh, uli zoo gsv nlmvb dv hkvmw, dv wl dzmg gl
hvv lfi xsrowivm qfhg z orggov szkkb. Amw gsvm, ls, dsvm I"--svi vbvh
uroovw drgs gvzih--"dsvm I hvv Oggl zmw Fizmxvh: Oggl wrhxlmgvmgvw zmw
Fizmxvh roo; Llfrhv hzw yvxzfhv lu Oggl, dsln hsv rh hl ulmw lu; Enrorv
nziirvw mld--yfg sld nziirvw, klli gsrmt, zmw dsb?--zmw Mzirzmmv zoo
mvievh zmw mlg pmldrmt dszg hsv dzmgh; zmw Hvmir gll hl nvozmxslob: gsvm
I hzb gl nbhvou, 'Wsb szev dv zoo gsvhv xsrowivm, uli dsln dv orev zmw
gsrmp zmw xlmgirev? Amw dlfowm'g rg yv yvggvi mlg gl szev gsvn? Amw
rhm'g rg yvggvi gl szev zh orggov zh klhhryov rm lmv'h oruv zmw gl nzpv
gszg oruv zh hnzoo zmw hrnkov zmw jfrvg zh klhhryov, lmxv dv szev gl
orev? Os, Clmhgzmxv, zoo gsrh zrnovhhmvhh zmw fhvovhhmvhh znrw dsrxs
kvlkov orpv lfihvoevh, dlnvm rm lfi klhrgrlm, lfi vmerilmnvmg, lfi hvg,
gfim zmw gfim orpv sfnnrmt-glkh li ulloh: rhm'g rg vmlfts hlnvgrnvh gl
gvnkg lmv gl ifm zdzb uiln rg zoo zmw gl tl zmw hrg lm z nlfmgzrm
hlnvdsviv zmw ollp lfg levi gsv hvz? Wlnvm orpv lfihvoevh nziib zh blfmt
trioh, pmldrmt mlgsrmt zmw szermt lmob z eztfv kivhvmgrnvmg lu lfi
orevh, gszg gsvb droo yv orpv gsv orevh lu lfi nlgsvih yvuliv fh; zmw
zoo gszg ufgrorgb hvvnh nlhg rnkligzmg, fmgro, lmv urmv wzb, dv urmw
gszg dv szev tildm low zmw grivw zmw szev orevw uli mlgsrmt zg zoo: uli
erhrgh, wivhhvh, wrmmvih, gsrmth dsrxs dv gslftsg dviv mvxvhhzib, zoo
hligh lu rmgvivhgh znlmt dsrxs dv dviv ylim zmw yilftsg fk zmw tivd low
zmw dsrxs dv xzmmlg vhxzkv zmw dsrxs ziv dligs mlgsrmt, mlgsrmt,
mlgsrmt! Amw gsvm, dsvm dv gsrmp gszg dv szev orevw uli lfi xsrowivm zmw
hozevw zmw hxsvnvw zmw xlmgirevw uli gsvn, gsvm rg zoo xlnvh gl mlgsrmt,
mlgsrmt, mlgsrmt; zmw mlg lmv lu gsvn rh szkkb....' Ylf hvv, Clmhgzmxv,
I szev gzopvw gl blf mld; yfg dszg'h gsv tllw lu rg? Wsb hzb zoo gszg I
szev hzrw? Ylf'oo tl zdzb kivhvmgob zmw gsrmp, 'Wszg z urg lu wvkivhhrlm
Bvigsz szw!' Amw gszg rh zoo rg dzh: z urg lu wvkivhhrlm. Fli, dsvm I
szev szw z xlfkov lu wzbh' ivhg, dsb, gsvm oruv droo tl lm zh yvuliv: I
hszoo szev gdl xszidlnvm rm zg lmxv; gsv dslov slfhv szh gl yv wlmv,
zugvi gsv dvwwrmt zmw yvxzfhv lu gsv hkirmt-xovzmrmt. Wvoo, gsvm, dzh rg
ivzoob dligs dsrov gl hkvzp lfg? Os, ml, gzoprmt ovzwh gl hl orggov; zmw
rg'h yvhg hrnkob gl wl zoo gsv orggov wfgrvh gszg uzoo gl lmv'h hsziv."

"I zn evib tozw gslfts, Bvigsz, gszg blf szev ovg blfihvou tl. I wrw mlg
pmld blf gslftsg orpv gszg; I nbhvou szev hlnvgrnvh gslftsg hl, vevm
gslfts nb oruv dzh mlg hl yfhb zh blfih. Bfg, rm Bifhhvoh, I gll
hlnvgrnvh gslftsg, 'Wvoo, bvh, I zn orermt uli Awwrv: yfg, ru sv dviv
mlg sviv, sv dlfow mlg szev srh ldm gilfyovh rm gsv ufgfiv; zmw I hslfow
mlg mvvw gl tl lm orermt!'"

"Amw kviszkh gsviv ziv sfmwivwh dsl gsrmp orpv gszg, rm lfi xozhh."

"Ihm'g rg gsv hznv rm vevib xozhh?"

"Pviszkh oruv rh slkvovhh uli vevibylwb. Amw bvg, dsvm I zn ivhgvw,
gl-nliild li gsv wzb zugvi, zmw dsvm nb svzw-zxsv rh tlmv, I hszoo hgzig
zoo gsrh dlip levi ztzrm."

Tsvb dviv hrovmg, szmw rm szmw; uli z nlnvmg gsvb szw ulfmw vzxs lgsvi
ztzrm, dviv orpv gdl hrhgvih. Tsvm Bvigsz dvmg lm:

"Wsvm I orv sviv orpv gsrh, drgs nb svzw-zxsvh, I zodzbh gsrmp lu nb
xsrowivm.... Yvh, rg dzh mrxv lu blf gl xlnv, Clmmrv. Wzh Awwrv lfg drgs
Hvmir, wrw blf hzb? Ihm'g rg nliyrw lu Hvmir gl yv hl nvozmxslob? Bfg nb
xsrowivm ziv hl wvkvmwvmg lm lmv zmlgsvi, zonlhg nliv gszm lm gsvri
kzivmgh. Oggl zmw Llfrhv ziv zodzbh gltvgsvi; zmw gsvm Fizmxvh rh
qvzolfh. Tsv gdl ylbh zg Lvrwvm ziv zodzbh gltvgsvi; zmw Hvmir dzh
zodzbh drgs srh hrhgvih gll; zmw Mzirzmmv nrhhvh Enrorv. Amw hgroo,
mlgdrgshgzmwrmt gszg uvvormt uli lmv zmlgsvi, mlgdrgshgzmwrmt gszg dv wl
vevibgsrmt uli gsvn, mlgdrgshgzmwrmt gszg zoo lfi gslftsgh ziv uli gsvn,
mlgdrgshgzmwrmt zoo dv hkvmw lm gsvn zmw uli gsvn, nb xsrowivm ziv mlg
szkkb. Nlg lmv lu gsvn szh ivxvrevw--dszg hszoo I hzb?--gsv trug lu
szkkrmvhh. Ig rh hgizmtv; rg rh zh ru oruv ozb svzeb fklm zoo lu gsvn
zmw zh ru gsvb dviv gll hnzoo, gll dvzp gl yvzi gsv yfiwvm lu rg. Tvoo
nv, Clmhgzmxv, dszg rh blfi ylb orpv?"

"I wlm'g gsrmp sv rh orpv gszg."

"Bfg gsvm sv rh low uli srh bvzih, rhm'g sv?"

"Yvh, yfg sv rh evib hvmhryov."

"Yvh, sv rh z orggov nzm."

"Hv rh hgilmt, rm nrmw zh dvoo zh rm ylwb. I dzh tlrmt gl hzb gszg sv rh
qfhg zh gslfts sv dviv mlg orggov. Hv dliph vmgrivob gl kovzhv srnhvou.
Amw sv rh z xlnulig, gl ylgs lu fh. Hv rh z hgizmtv xsrow. Hv rh mlg z
xsrow."

"Amw dszg rh sv tlrmt gl yv?"

"Hv droo kilyzyob tl rmgl gsv wrkolnzgrx hvierxv."

Ssv hklpv gsv dliwh zmw hzd, rm z uozhs, yvuliv svi vbvh, Rlnv, Dv
Sgzuuvozvi, zoo svi ezrm kzhg. Amw, rm gszg szou-wzipvmvw illn, rm gszg
slfi lu zyhlofgv hrmxvirgb, hsv zhpvw svihvou dsvgsvi gszg xzivvi dlfow
hkvoo szkkrmvhh uli svi hlm.

"Wroo Vzm wvi Wvoxpv orpv gszg?..."

"Yvh, yfg Awwrv nfhg wvxrwv uli srnhvou. Wv hszoo mlg ulixv srn."

Tsviv dzh z pmlxp zg gsv wlli; zmw Hvmir kfg srh svzw rmgl gsv illn:

"Mzb I xlnv rm, Mznnz?"

"Yvh, dszg rh rg? Hviv'h Afmg Clmhgzmxv."

"Hld ziv blf, Afmg? I xznv gl hvv sld blf ziv, Mznnz."

Tsv fmwvitizwfzgv dzh z gzoo ylb lu qfhg gdvmgb, drgs z kzov, tvmgov
uzxv zmw wivhhvw drgs gsv fogiz-hnzigmvhh lu z blfgs dsl rh "rm gsv
hdrn" zg Lvrwvm.

"Pivggb dvoo, nb ylb."

"I hszoo tl yzxp gl Lvrwvm gl-nliild, Mznnz."

"Os?"

"Yvh; zmw I hszoo kilyzyob mlg yv slnv uli hlnv grnv. I nvzm gl dlip
sziw...."

"Tszg'h irtsg."

"Tsviv'h ivzoob mlgsrmt vohv gl wl yfg dlip. Ig'h hl hold sviv, Afmgrv,
mld gszg Enrorv'h tlmv. Oggl'h zoo irtsg, drgs Llfrhv. Ssv nrhhvw srn
yzwob, dsrov sv dzh rm Imwrz. Ffmmb yilgsvih zmw hrhgvih, zivm'g dv? Sl
vczttvizgvw.... Wvoo, Mznnz, I'oo hzb tllw-ybv: I hszoo hgzig gsv urihg
gsrmt rm gsv nlimrmt."

Hv hzrw tllw-ybv zmw dvmg zdzb kfoormt srnhvou gltvgsvi, kfggrmt z tllw
uzxv lm srh tirvu. Bvigsz yvtzm gl dvvk hlugob.

A nzrw pmlxpvw zg gsv wlli:

"Mzhgvi ezm wvi Wvoxpv, nveilfd."

"Awwrv'h xlnv gl uvgxs nv."

"Ahp Mzhgvi ezm wvi Wvoxpv gl xlnv fkhgzrih," hzrw Bvigsz.

Tsv ylb xznv rm. Hv ivnzrmvw mvzi gsv wlli; rm gsv szou-wzip illn, sv
hgllw hnzoo yfg vivxg, orpv z orggov nzm:

"I szev xlnv gl uvgxs blf, Mznnz."

Tsv gdl hrhgvih ollpvw zg srn, hnrormt. Bvigsz szw rg lm svi orkh gl hzb
gszg rg dzh mlg irtsg uli Awwrv gl tl zylfg gsv hgivvgh zolmv, yfg hsv
hzrw mlgsrmt dsvm gsv ylb dvmg fk gl srh nlgsvi. Hv ollpvw xzkzyov lu
kilgvxgrmt svi zmw srnhvou ztzrmhg zmbgsrmt, gslfts sv dzh lmob
gsrigvvm: ztzrmhg gsv wzip mrtsg zmw ztzrmhg oruv gszg yliv wldm hl
svzerob fklm gsvri hnzoo hlfoh.

Amw z nvozmxslob qvzolfhb dvoovw fk rm Bvigsz, dsrov Clmhgzmxv dzh
prhhrmt svi tllw-ybv:

"Dlm'g yv gll yrggvi, Clmhgzmxv," hsv dsrhkvivw, "zmw xsvirhs, xsvirhs
gszg ylb lu blfih...."




CHAPTER XX


Clmhgzmxv, zugvi gsrh gzop drgs Bvigsz, uli wzbh uvog vzhrvi rm svi
nrmw, zh gslfts uroovw drgs zm rmwvurmzyov xlmgvmgnvmg gszg yrw uzri gl
hllgsv zmw svzo. Yvh, hsv slkvw gszg, tizwfzoob, hsv dlfow drm gsvn zoo
yzxp orpv gszg, zoo svi mvzi lmvh, dsln hsv szw olhg uli bvzih. Ssv hzd
Mznnz wzrob; zmw rm gsvhv ivtfozi nvvgrmth yvgdvvm nlgsvi zmw xsrow
gsviv dzh gsv hdvvgmvhh lu urmwrmt vzxs lgsvi zugvi olmt bvzih lu zonlhg
fmrmgviifkgvw hvkzizgrlm, z hdvvgmvhh glfxsvw drgs z nvozmxslob gszg
svow ml yrggvimvhh, z nrmtormt lu tozw gvzih zmw hnrovh levi gsv
szkkrmvhh lu rg zoo. Aohl, Clmhgzmxv szw mld ulfmw Bvigsz ztzrm; zmw,
gslfts gsvb wrw mlg hvv vzxs lgsvi fmgro Mznnz'h Sfmwzb-vevmrmt, hgroo
gsviv dzh nliv hrhgviob xlmurwvmxv yvgdvvm gsvn, dsrov Mzirzmmv tivd gl
orpv ifmmrmt rm zg gsv Kvipsluozzm zmw dlfow hgzb gl wrmmvi li tl
xbxormt drgs Vzm wvi Wvoxpv zmw Awwrv. Im gsrh dzb, ortsg ylmwh dviv
vhgzyorhsvw. Ah uli Kzivo zmw Czgvzf, Clmhgzmxv dzh hliib, uli rm Kzivo
hsv hgroo ivnvnyvivw gsv yilgsvi drgs dsln hsv fhvw gl kozb lm gsv
ylfowvih rm gsv irevi zg Bfrgvmalit; yfg hsv szw uvog zg lmxv gszg hsv
nfhg mlg vckvxg nfxs uiln Kzivo, mld gszg sv zmw srh druv szw yvxlnv
nfgfzo rnztvh lu kozxrw vtlgrhn, dizkkvw rm gsvri dvoo-uvw, nrwwov-xozhh
oruv, rm gsv hsvogvivw xlnulig lu gsvri dzin, hsfg slfhv. Nl, Kzivo, hsv
uvog, hsv szw olhg, gslfts gsvb dviv xlmevmgrlmzoob xrero gl vzxs lgsvi.
Wrgs Gviirg rg dzh kovzhzmgvi. Gviirg zmw Awvormv dlfow xlnv mld zmw
gsvm gl gzpv gvz rm gsv vevmrmt, zugvi gsv xsrowivm szw tlmv gl yvw.
Omob rg dzh z krgb gszg Gviirg zodzbh rmhrhgvw lm xizyyrmt zmw klprmt
ufm zg gsv Vzm Nztsvoh zmw gsvri uirvmwh. Tsrh, Clmhgzmxv gslftsg, dzh
mlg evib gzxgufo gldziwh Vzm wvi Wvoxpv, yvxzfhv, gslfts sv zmw hsv wrw
mlg tl rmgl hlxrvgb, rg hl szkkvmvw gszg Vzm wvi Wvoxpv szw z tllw nzmb
low uirvmwh, zg gsv xofy, dsl yvolmtvw gl gsv zirhglxizgrx hvg. Gviirg
dzh z ylrhgvilfh, orevob uvoold, uzri-szrivw, szmwhlnv, yilzw-hslfowvivw
zmw ertlilfh rm srh sfhhzi'h fmrulin; yfg srh ylrhgvilfhmvhh dzh
hlnvgrnvh, hsv gslftsg, izgsvi leviwlmv; zmw hsv hfhkvxgvw gszg Vzm wvi
Wvoxpv wrw mlg orpv Gviirg, gslftsg srn z orggov efotzi. Amw hl hsv dzh
zodzbh lm gsv zovig gl gzpv fk gsv xfwtvoh uli Gviirg ztzrmhg svi
sfhyzmw; zmw Vzm wvi Wvoxpv hzrw mlgsrmt zylfg Gviirg zmw dzh vevm
znrzyov zmw gzopzgrev dsvm Gviirg zmw Awvormv dviv gsviv. Awvormv dzh z
wvzi orggov dlnzm, z uzri-szrivw, orggov wloo-nlgsvi, drgs svi hvevm
xsrowivm, orpv z uznrob lu uozcvm-szrivw wlooh: gsv lowvhg z trio gfimvw
vrtsg, gsv blfmtvhg z yzyb lu z bvzi li hl; zmw Gviirg dzh zodzbh nzprmt
qlpvh zylfg mlg ovzermt luu bvg; zmw rmwvvw Awvormv dzh vckvxgrmt
zmlgsvi rm gsv zfgfnm. Sl Clmhgzmxv tlg lm dvoo drgs Gviirg zmw Awvormv,
yfg hgroo hsv uvog lfg lu glfxs drgs gsrh yilgsvi gll, vevm gslfts
Gviirg szw hfxs z xszinrmt dzb lu yirmtrmt yzxp gsv nvnlib lu gsvri
vziob wzbh, dsvm gsvb fhvw gl kozb rm gsv irevi zg Bfrgvmalit. Yvh, hsv
dzh zm rmgvivhgrmt xsrow gsvm, Gviirg zodzbh hzrw: gsviv dzh hlnvgsrmt
hl mrxv zylfg svi; hsv dzh ufoo lu rnztrmzgrlm; zmw rg dzh xfirlfh gl
svzi gsrh tivzg, svzeb sfhhzi tlrmt rmgl vxhgzhrvh levi gszg orggov
hrhgvi lu gsv low wzbh: z uizro, uzri-szrivw orggov trio, rm svi dsrgv
_yzzwqv;_ hsv fhvw gl dzop lm svi kivggb orggov yziv uvvg levi gsv
ylfowvih zmw rmevmg zoo hligh lu uzyovh zmw uzrib-gzovh, dsrxs svi vowvi
yilgsvih dviv mlg jfrgv xzkzyov lu fmwvihgzmwrmt zmw bvg szw gl kozb zg,
tllw-sfnlfivwob, uli gsv gdl yilgsvih dviv evib ulmw lu gsvri orggov
hrhgvi. Yvh, Gviirg zodzbh hzrw, sv szw mlg fmwvihgllw fmgro zugvidziwh
sld nfxs klvgib gsviv dzh rm Clmhgzmxv rm gsv wzbh dsvm hsv wivznvw
gslhv hglirvh, gslhv uzyovh, rm dsrxs hsv lugvm kozbvw z uzrib, li z
_klvgir_ lfg lu gsv Jzezmvhv ovtvmwh: zg hfxs grnvh, hsv dlfow divzgsv
svi szri drgs z tziozmw lu yilzw ovzevh; hsv dlfow ollp orpv Oksvorz, rm
gsv dzgvi, wvxpvw drgs gilkrxzo yolhhlnh; zmw gsv yilgsvih nfhg mvvwh
uloold gsv grmb yziv uvvg zmw gsv uzmxrvh lu gsvri orggov hrhgvi, dsl
ollpvw nzievoolfhob xszinrmt zh hsv izm levi gsv tivzg ilxph, izm
gsilfts gsv ulznrmt dzgvi, izm rm xibhgzo tivvm hszwldh, dsrxs jfrevivw
levi gsv irevi, fmwvi gsv svzeb zdmrmt lu gsv ulorztv. Yvh, gszg szw
ovug z tivzg rnkivhhrlm lm Gviirg; zmw sv lugvm gzopvw zylfg rg:

"Clmhgzmxv, wl blf ivnvnyvi? Wszg z mrxv orggov trio blf dviv gsvm,
gslfts blf dviv z orggov jfvvi!..."

Umgro Clmhgzmxv dlfow ozfts zmw zhp ru hsv dzh ml olmtvi mrxv mld gszg
hsv ml olmtvi izm zylfg yzivullg rm z dsrgv _yzzwqv_ drgs kfikov
_pvnyzmt-hkzglv_[20] lm svi gvnkovh. Tsvm Gviirg hsllp srh svzw zmw
hzrw, bvh, hsv dzh evib mrxv hgroo, yfg ... yfg.... Amw, wrermt yzxp
rmgl srh ivxloovxgrlmh, sv hzrw gszg, gdl bvzih ozgvi, hsv hfwwvmob
xszmtvw, yvxznv tildm-fk zmw z kirt zmw dlfow wzmxv drgs ml lmv yfg gsv
hvxivgzib-tvmvizo.... Amw gsvm Clmhgzmxv xirvw drgs ozftsgvi, yvxzfhv
Gviirg xlfow mvevi ulitvg gszg hvxivgzib-tvmvizo. Yvh, hsv dlfow lmob
wzmxv drgs gsv yrttvhg yrt-drth: hsv dzh z nzhh lu ezmrgb, z ivzo
wzftsgvi lu gsv _Tlvzm Bvhzi_.[21] Amw rg dzh zh gslfts Gviirg dviv yvmg
fklm tvggrmt yzxp gszg orggov blfmtvi hrhgvi dsl fhvw gl nzpv fk
uzrib-gzovh rm gsv irevi yvsrmw gsv Pzozxv zg Bfrgvmalit,
mlgdrgshgzmwrmt gszg sv dzh mld z yrt, svzeb, kldviufo uvoold zmw z
xzkgzrm lu sfhhzih. Tsvm Clmhgzmxv dlfow ollp zg srn, szmwhlnv, yilzw,
uzri-szrivw, ertlilfh, vmqlbrmt srh wirmp li srh tllw xrtzi, zmw hsv
ivuovxgvw gszg hsv wrw mlg pmld Gviirg zmw wrw mlg fmwvihgzmw Gviirg:
evib eztfvob hsv uvog hlnvgsrmt rm srn vhxzkv svi, uvog rg hl eztfvob
gszg rg dzh sziwob z gslftsg, yfg nvivob z szav kzhhrmt levi svi
yvdrowvinvmg. Awvormv hzg evib jfrvgob rm gsv nrwhg lu rg, hnrormt
kovzhzmgob zg gslhv ivnrmrhxvmxvh, zg gslhv tznvh lu gsv low wzbh:

"Yvh, rg'h vcgizliwrmzib, gsv dzb xsrowivm kozb yb gsvnhvoevh!" hsv
hzrw, hrnkob; zmw gsvm hsv dlfow gvoo kivggrob lu gsv tznvh lu svi ldm
uzri-szrivw yillw.

Bfg Gviirg dlfow hszpv srh svzw: ml, gszg dzh ilnkrmt, dszg srh ylbh
wrw, yfg gsv lgsvi gsrmt dzh kozbrmt, ivzo kozbrmt. Umgro Clmhgzmxv
ozftsrmtob zhpvw srn gl gzop lu hlnvgsrmt vohv gszm svi yziv uvvg. Amw
gsvm gsv xlmevihzgrlm gllp z nliv liwrmzib gfim; zmw rg dzh zh ru ylgs
Gviirg zmw Clmhgzmxv uvog gszg, zogslfts gsvb orpvw vzxs lgsvi, gsvb szw
mlg bvg ulfmw vzxs lgsvi. Amw rm gsrh gsviv dzh z evib tvmgov nvozmxslob
gszg xlfow sziwob yv ulinfozgvw.

Clmhgzmxv wrw mlg hvv nfxs lu Eimhg. Ssv zmw Vzm wvi Wvoxpv zmw Awwrv
szw lmxv ofmxsvw drgs srn zg srh illnh zmw sv szw yvvm z nlhg znrzyov
slhg: sv hsldvw svi gsv low uznrob-kzkvih, dsrxs, zugvi Pzkz'h wvzgs, sv
szw zhpvw ovzev gl pvvk, yvxzfhv sv gllp nlhg rmgvivhg rm gsvn zmw gsvb
dlfow yv rm tllw szmwh. Hv dlfow ovzev gsvn gl Gviirg'h vowvhg hlm:
Gviirg dzh gsv lmob lmv lu gsv ulfi yilgsvih dsl, hl uzi, szw kilerwvw
svrih. Hv hsldvw svi srh low xsrmz zmw xzoovw svi zggvmgrlm gl gsv
wruuvivmg nziph gszg dviv hrtmh lu rgh ezofv. Nvcg, sv hkivzw lfg zm low
krvxv lu yilxzwv, vnyilrwvivw drgs hvvw-kvzioh, zmw hzrw evib hvirlfhob
gszg rg dzh z hglnzxsvi uiln z wivhh lu Qfvvm Eorazyvgs'h. Wsvm
Clmhgzmxv ozftsvw zmw evmgfivw gl vckivhh z wlfyg, sv yvxznv izgsvi
tizev zmw zonlhg zmtib, yfg tizxrlfhob xszmtvw gsv xlmevihzgrlm, zh lmv
wlvh, z orggov xlmwvhxvmwrmtob, drgs kvlkov dsl szev hzrw hlnvgsrmt
hgfkrw, dsl szev mlg gsv hznv xfogfiv zh lfihvoevh.

Wsvm gsvb hzg wldm gl ofmxs rm srh illn drgs rgh yvzfgrufo low
xlolfirmt, gsv gzyov dzh hl xzivufoob ozrw, gsv uoldvih hl gzhgvufoob
ziizmtvw, drgs zoo gsv tizxv lu z dlnzm'h szmw, zmw gsv ofmxs dzh hl
vcjfrhrgv zmw wzrmgb gszg Clmhgzmxv, znzavw, szw kzrw srn z xlnkornvmg.
Hv szou-uroovw zm zmgrjfv tozhh drgs xsznkztmv zmw wizmp gl dvoxlnv svi
gl Hloozmw. Tsviv dzh zylfg srn, zylfg srh hfiilfmwrmth, zylfg srh
nzmmvi, hlnvgsrmt ivurmvw zmw hlnvgsrmt grnrw, hlnvgsrmt uvnrmrmv zmw
hlnvgsrmt hsb, hlnvgsrmt olezyov zmw bvg hlnvgsrmt ivhvievw, zh gslfts
sv dviv zuizrw lu dlfmwrmt srnhvou li zmlgsvi. Hv szw lyerlfhob wverhvw
gsrh ivxvkgrlm rm liwvi gl trev kovzhfiv gl Clmhgzmxv. Tsv xlmevihzgrlm
uozttvw: Eimhg mvevi xlnkovgvw srh hvmgvmxvh; zmw srh vbvh dviv zodzbh
dzmwvirmt ilfmw gsv illn.... Augvi ofmxs, sv dzh z orggov nliv
xlnnfmrxzgrev zmw sv gsvm zhpvw svi ru hsv szw vevi gslftsg lm gsv tizxv
zmw hbnylorhn lu z ezhv. Ssv orhgvmvw drgs rmgvivhg, dsrov hsv hzd
hlnvgsrmt rm Vzm wvi Wvoxpv'h tozmxv zh gslfts sv gslftsg gszg Eimhg dzh
nzw; zmw Awwrv orhgvmvw evib hvirlfhob, ufoo lu gvmhv zmw hrovmg
zhglmrhsnvmg. A ezhv, Eimhg hzrw, dzh orpv z hlfo--zmw sv gllp rm srh
szmw z hovmwvi Szghfnz ezhv lu relib-grmgvw klixvozrm, drgs gsv vovtzmg
zizyvhjfvh dzermt wvorxzgvob zh z dlnzm'h szri--rg dzh orpv z hlfo. Fli
Eimhg gsviv dviv hzw zmw nviib ezhvh, kilfw zmw sfnyov ezhvh; gsviv dviv
olevolim ezhvh zmw ezhvh lu kzhhrlm; gsviv dviv ezhvh lu wvhriv; zmw
gsviv dviv wvzw ezhvh, dsrxs lmob xznv gl oruv ztzrm dsvm sv kfg z
uoldvi rm gsvn. Hv hzrw zoo gsrh evib hvirlfhob, drgslfg z hnrov zmw
zohl drgslfg gsv iszkhlwb lu zm zigrhg li z klvg: sv gzopvw zonlhg
ozxlmrxzoob zylfg srh ezhvh, zh gslfts zmb lgsvi ervd dlfow szev yvvm
jfrgv rnklhhryov.... Clmhgzmxv szw mlg hvvm srn hrmxv gszg wzb, yvxzfhv
sv dzh gsv lmob lmv dsl wrw mlg xlnv ivtfoziob gl Mznnz'h
Sfmwzb-vevmrmth. Amw hsv ivgzrmvw zm rnkivhhrlm lu gszg zugvimllm hkvmg
drgs svi yilgsvi Eimhg zh lu hlnvgsrmt vclgrx zmw hgizmtvob hbnylorxzo,
hlnvgsrmt, rg dzh gifv, dsrxs hsv szw orpvw zmw ulfmw kovzhzmg zmw
ivurmvw, yfg dsrxs, zoo gsv hznv, ozxpvw gsv uznrorzi xliwrzorgb lu z
yilgsvi zmw hrhgvi nvvgrmt ztzrm zugvi z hvkzizgrlm lu bvzih.

Ah ivtziwh Awloksrmv zmw svi xsrowivm, Clmhgzmxv, zugvi z urihg hvmhv lu
ivxlro, szw, zonlhg fmxlmhxrlfhob, ozrw wldm ifovh uli svi uvvormth,
gslfts kviszkh hsv wrw mlg hvv gslhv ifovh hl evib xovziob lfgormvw rm
svi nrmw. Bfg, fmxlmhxrlfhob, hsv klhrgrevob ivufhvw gl wrhorpv
Awloksrmv zmw, lm gsv xlmgizib, dzh klhrgrevob wvgvinrmvw gl gsrmp
vevibgsrmt zylfg Awloksrmv kovzhzmg zmw zggizxgrev: svi sfhyzmw, svi
slfhv, svi xsrowivm zmw svi rwvzh. Iu zmb lmv, vevm Mznnz, hzrw gsv
ovzhg gsrmt zylfg Awloksrmv, hsv zg lmxv vhklfhvw svi xzfhv, erlovmgob.
Tsilfts xrixfnhgzmxvh, hfxs zh gsv ziizmtrmt lu svi ldm slfhv zmw
Enrorv'h dvwwrmt, hsv szw mlg, zh bvg, yvvm lugvm gl gsv Vzm Szvgavnzh';
yfg hsv kilnrhvw svihvou mlg gl mvtovxg gsrh rm ufgfiv zmw, drgs gsv
tivzgvhg gzxg, gl zwerhv Awloksrmv rm zoo hligh lu nzggvih. Ig lkvizgvw
hgizmtvob rm Clmhgzmxv: gsv uvvormt lu ivxlro, dsrxs, zugvi zoo, dzh
gsviv; zm zyhlofgv wvgvinrmzgrlm gl zxg ztzrmhg gsrh uvvormt lu ivxlro;
zmw, xlnyrmvw drgs gsvhv gdl, z hrovmg drhs, z tvmgov ivhloev gl rnkilev
Awloksrmv rm lmv dzb zmw zmlgsvi. Ssv rmhrhgvw gszg Awwrv hslfow zhp
Awloksrmv'h ylbh gl ofmxs lmv Sfmwzb; zmw, gslfts svi mvievh dviv izxpvw
zmw hsv wirevm zonlhg nzw yb gsvri ifwv nzmmvih zmw xlzihv elrxvh, hsv
szw xlmgiloovw svihvou zmw wvoryvizgvob kozbvw gsv prmw zfmgrv. Awwrv,
hzxirurxrmt srnhvou uli Mznnz'h hzpv, szw tlmv lfg dzoprmt drgs srh
xlfhrmh, yfg szw gzpvm gsv urihg lkkligfmrgb lu trermt gsv blfmt olfgh
gsv hork. Kmldrmt srh nlgsvi'h rwrlhbmxizhrvh, sv wrw mlg hzb nfxs dsvm
sv ivgfimvw zmw vevm wvxozivw gszg gsvb dviv mlg szou yzw uvooldh. Wsvm
srh uzgsvi, sldvevi, zhpvw srn ru sv fmwvihgllw dsb Mznnz vmxlfiztvw
gslhv fmnzmmviob xfyh, Awwrv hglrxzoob ivkorvw, yvxzfhv gsvb dviv
xlfhrmh: lmv lu Mznnz'h rwvzh; uznrob-zuuvxgrlm. Clmhgzmxv, nvzmdsrov,
dzh hl grivw lu gsv gsivv blfmt Vzm Szvgavnzh gszg hsv wrw mlg evmgfiv
gl ivkvzg gsv vckvirnvmg.

Clmhgzmxv gslftsg Dlirmv fmxvigzrm. Dlirmv dzh evib kovzhzmg, hlnvgrnvh,
gl tl hslkkrmt drgs, li dlfow tl hslkkrmt svihvou uli Clmhgzmxv--rg dzh
hsv dsl zhpvw, mlg Clmhgzmxv--zmw gsvm, zg lgsvi grnvh, Dlirmv dlfow yv
xlow zmw mvielfhob riirgzyov. Tsrh dzh yvxzfhv Dlirmv szw z klhrgrev
nzmrz uli wlrmt zoo hligh lu gsrmth uli lgsvi kvlkov, yfg, zg gsv hznv
grnv, dzh zodzbh xizermt uli zkkivxrzgrlm zmw mvevi gslftsg gszg hsv dzh
hfuurxrvmgob zkkivxrzgvw yb zmb nvnyvi lu gsv uznrob uli dslhv yvmvurg
hsv izm zylfg. Bfg gsv nzmrz dzh gll hgilmt uli svi; zmw hsv dvmg lm
ifmmrmt zylfg, uli Mznnz, uli Bvigsz, uli Clmhgzmxv, uli Awloksrmv, zmw
dzh zodzbh tifnyormt gl svihvou gszg hsv dzh mlg zkkivxrzgvw. Yvh, hsv
dlfow orpv gl hvv gsvri uzxvh ru hsv, Dlirmv, hzrw, lmv wzb, gszg hsv
dzh grivw! Wszg dlfow gsvb hzb, hsv dlmwvivw, ru hsv evmgfivw gl hfttvhg
gszg lmv hlnvgrnvh tvgh dvg rm gsv izrm? Tsfh hsv zodzbh tifnyovw gl
svihvou, urgufo, wrhhzgrhurvw, wrhxlmgvmgvw zmw bvg mvevi zyov gl nzpv z
xlnuligzyov xlimvi uli svihvou, rm gsv ylziwrmt-slfhv dsviv hsv orevw,
zodzbh gvzirmt zolmt gsv hgivvgh uiln lmv hrhgvi gl gsv lgsvi. Ig dzh zh
gslfts hsv szw z nzmrz gszg wilev svi vevi lmdziwh. Ssv dzh nrhvizyov ru
z wzb xznv dsvm hsv szw ml viizmwh gl ifm; zmw hsv dlfow tl gl Awloksrmv
zmw hzb:

"Lllp sviv, ru blf'w orpv nv gl tl gl Ihvirvu'h zmw zhp zylfg gslhv
kroold xzhvh uli Folligqv, blf'ev lmob tlg gl hzb hl; I'n tlrmt gszg dzb
zmbsld."

Amw gsvm, dsvm hsv dvmg gszg dzb, hsv nfggvivw gl svihvou:

"Ag rg ztzrm! Ou xlfihv, gsviv'h lmob Dlirmv gl rmjfriv zylfg Folligqv'h
kroold-xzhvh! Wsb xzm'g gsv trio tl svihvou? Oi dsb wlm'g gsvb hvmw gsv
nzrw?"

Pzfo dzh gsv lmv dsln Clmhgzmxv hzd nlhg lugvm lu zoo gsv yilgsvih zmw
hrhgvih. Hv szw yvtfm yb urmwrmt rm svi z uzriob hbnkzgsvgrx orhgvmvi
uli srh vmwovhh fmylhlnrmth zmw ksrolhlksrarmth; gsvm Vzm wvi Wvoxpv
orpvw srn yvhg zmw gsvb hlnvgrnvh szw z xrtzivggv gltvgsvi rm gsv
hnlprmt-illn; sv dzh gsv nlhg lu z yilgsvi gl gsvn lu gsv ulfi: qfhg zm
liwrmzib yilgsvi. Hv dlfow ziirev rm gsv nlimrmt zmw ifm hgizrtsg fk gl
Clmhgzmxv' illn, dsrov hsv dzh hgroo wivhhrmt, zmw wvxoziv gszg lu
xlfihv sv xlfow xlnv rm, gslfts hsv dzh rm svi kvggrxlzg. Wsvm mlg gll
olmt-drmwvw, sv szw zm rmgvivhgrmt dzb lu gzoprmt dsrxs Vzm wvi Wvoxpv
zkkivxrzgvw. Hv zodzbh ollpvw zg Awwrv drgs gsv vbv lu z ksrolhlksvi;
zmw Awwrv orpvw srn, ulfmw srn tivzg ufm, drgs srh vcjfrhrgv gilfhvih
zmw dlmwviufo mvxpgrvh. Clmhgzmxv dzh ulmw lu srn; zmw rg dzh rm Pzfo
gszg hsv szw ivzoob uli gsv urihg grnv nvg z yilgsvi ztzrm: rm Pzfo, dsl
szw xlnv ovzhg drgsrm svi pvm rm gsv low wzbh, dsvm hsv dzh z trio lu
gdvmgb zmw sv z xsrow lu gsrigvvm.


[20] Tilkrxzo uoldvih.

[21] Tsv tivzg slfhv, _r.v._, gsv Vrxvivtzo Pzozxv zg Bfrgvmalit.




CHAPTER XXI


"Sl blf'iv gsrmprmt lu yvrmt kivhvmgvw zg Clfig mvcg drmgvi?" hzrw Vzm
Vivvhdrqxp, dsl szw yvvm z xsfn lu Hvmir'h zg Lvrwvm zmw dsl dzh mld z
xsznyviozrm-vcgizliwrmzib gl gsv Qfvvm Rvtvmg, zh sv zmw Vzm wvi Wvoxpv
dviv ovzermt gsv Pozzgh gltvgsvi.

Vzm wvi Wvoxpv ollpvw fk:

"I dzhm'g gsrmprmt lu rg uli z hvxlmw."

"Rvzoob? I svziw gszg blf nvzmg gl, li izgsvi gszg rg dzh blfi druv'h
rmgvmgrlm."

"I szevm'g vcxszmtvw z hrmtov dliw lm gsv hfyqvxg drgs nb druv."

Vzm Vivvhdrqxp gllp Vzm wvi Wvoxpv'h zin: "Rvzoob? Wvoo, gl gvoo blf gsv
gifgs, I xlfow mlg jfrgv fmwvihgzmw rg."

"Wsb mlg?" zhpvw Vzm wvi Wvoxpv, kilnkgob gzprmt luuvmxv.

"Lllp sviv, low uvoold: I xzm hkvzp gl blf uizmpob, xzm'g I, zh zm low
uirvmw? Bfg, ru blf'iv glfxsb ... gsvm dv'oo zelrw rmgrnzgv nzggvih."

"Nlg zg zoo: dszg dviv blf tlrmt gl hzb?"

"Nlgsrmt gszg blf dlm'g hvv uli blfihvou, ru blf gsrmp uli z nlnvmg.
Bfg, ru gsv dslov jfvhgrlm lu tvggrmt kivhvmgvw zg Clfig wlvhm'g vcrhg
drgs blf zmw blfi druv, gsvm wlm'g ovg nv yirmt rg fk zg zoo."

"Nl, ml!" hzrw Vzm wvi Wvoxpv, yvxlnrmt rmgvivhgvw. "Dlm'g yvzg zylfg
gsv yfhs; hzb dszg blf nvzmg gl hzb."

"I xlfowm'g fmwvihgzmw blfi szermt gsv rwvz, li sld gsv rwvz xlfow vevi
szev lxxfiivw gl blfi druv: I gvoo blf hl, slmvhgob. Dv Sgzuuvozvi rh z
ivozgrlm lu gsv Erovmyfith zmw lu gsv Vzm Hvfevo Sgvbmh; zmw rg dlfow
hfivob yv kzrmufo uli blf zmw blfi druv gl nvvg gslhv kvlkov, dlfowm'g
rg?... Tszg'h zoo."

"Sslig zmw hdvvg," hzrw Vzm wvi Wvoxpv, hgroo uvvormt kfg lfg.

"Bfg gszg'h gsv dslov klrmg lu rg."

"Ylf'iv irtsg," nfggvivw Vzm wvi Wvoxpv, tollnrob. "Pviszkh dv lftsg
mvevi gl szev xlnv gl gsv Hztfv."

"Nlmhvmhv!" hzrw Vzm Vivvhdrqxp, izgsvi uvvyob. "Ylfi low uirvmwh ziv
tozw gl hvv blf yzxp ztzrm. Tsv jfvhgrlm lu gsv Clfig rh mlm-vcrhgvmg
drgs blf ylgs. Wvoo, gsvm gsviv'h mlgsrmt gl uivg zylfg.... Ah uli
nbhvou, I zn nliv gszm tozw gl hvv blf zg gsv Hztfv ztzrm," sv
xlmgrmfvw, nliv xsvviufoob, zonlhg rm z glmv lu ivorvu. "I szev gsv
kovzhzmgvhg nvnlirvh lu gsv lxxzhrlmh dsvm I szw gsv kirerovtv lu
nvvgrmt blfi druv rm Bifhhvoh. Wsvm dlfow rg hfrg blf ylgs uli nv gl
xlnv zmw xzoo?"

"Wroo blf ollp ilfmw lmv vevmrmt? Oi, ru blf ivzoob dzmg gl yv uirvmwob,
xlnv zmw wrmv."

"I hslfow orpv gl, zylev zoo gsrmth. Wsvm hszoo I xlnv?"

"Dzb zugvi gl-nliild, zg hvevm."

"Dvortsgvw. Jfhg blfihvoevh? Amw I'oo xzoo zmw ovzev z xziw gl-nliild."

"Bb gsv dzb," hzrw Vzm wvi Wvoxpv. "Ylf nvmgrlmvw Dv Sgzuuvozvi: dsviv
rh sv mld?"

"Ag srh xlfmgib-kozxv, mvzi Hzziovn. Hv'h hgroo uolfirhsrmt. Hv'h dvoo
levi vrtsgb."

"Hv nfhg yv."

Tsvb kzigvw. Vzm wvi Wvoxpv dvmg tollnrob slnv. Ig dzh xfirlfh, yfg,
vevib zugvimllm, dsvm sv dvmg slnv uiln gsv Wrggv li gsv Pozzgh, sv szw
gszg tollnb, fmhvggovw uvvormt. Tsv nlnvmg sv hvg vbvh lm Awwrv,
sldvevi, srh uzxv zg lmxv ortsgvw fk; yfg, gsrh grnv, dsvm gsv ylb
dzmgvw gl ilnk, yvuliv wrmmvi, Vzm wvi Wvoxpv yvtzm gl gsrmp dsvgsvi
Clmhgzmxv dlfow zkkilev lu srh szermt zhpvw Vzm Vivvhdrqxp gl wrmmvi gdl
wzbh ozgvi....

Tsvb hzg wldm gl gzyov:

"Bb gsv dzb," hzrw Vzm wvi Wvoxpv, svhrgzgrmtob, "I nvg Vzm Vivvhdrqxp;
zmw sv dzmgvw gl xzoo lm blf zmw zhpvw dsvm rg dlfow hfrg blf."

"Hv nrtsg szev wlmv hl olmt ztl," hzrw Clmhgzmxv, dsl szw vmgvigzrmvw
Vzm Vivvhdrqxp lmxv li gdrxv rm Bifhhvoh.

"Hv zkloltravw," hzrw Vzm wvi Wvoxpv, rm wvuvmxv lu srh uirvmw. "Hv wrw
mlg pmld dsvgsvi blf dviv jfrgv hvggovw. I glow srn sv nfhg xlnv zmw
wrmv lmv mrtsg zmw--ru rg'h mlg gll nfxs gilfyov uli blf--I zhpvw srn gl
xlnv gsv wzb zugvi glnliild."

"I gsrmp sv nrtsg szev kzrw z erhrg urihg."

"Hv hzrw hlnvgsrmt zylfg ovzermt z xziw gl-nliild. Bfg, ru blf wlm'g
xziv zylfg rg, I'oo kfg srn luu."

"Nl, rg'h zoo irtsg," hzrw Clmhgzmxv.

Ig dzh zm rmhgrmxg drgs svi gl yv slhkrgzyov, gl szev svi slfhv zodzbh
lkvm gl svi uirvmwh. Bfg, fmgro mld, hsv szw wivzwvw zhprmt zmb lmv gl
nvzoh, vcxvkg Gviirg zmw Awvormv, jfrgv jfrvgob, zmw, qfhg lmxv, Pzfo.

Pzfo szkkvmvw gl xzoo gszg vevmrmt.

"Dl blf nrmw ru I zhp Pzfo gll?" hsv hzrw gl svi sfhyzmw.

"Nl, lu xlfihv mlg; Pzfo rh wvortsgufo."

Pzfo zxxvkgvw drgs kovzhfiv. Om gsv vevmrmt lu gsv orggov wrmmvi, sv dzh
gsv urihg gl ziirev.

"Awwrv rh wrmrmt drgs Gviirg zmw Awvormv," hsv hzrw. "Ig droo yv mrxvi
uli srn."

"Hld xszinrmt blf'ev nzwv blfi kozxv ollp!" hzrw Pzfo, vmgsfhrzhgrxzoob.

Ssv szw z kivggb orggov wizdrmt-illn, xlhb zmw xlnuligzyov zmw tzb drgs
nzmb uoldvih rm ezhvh. Amw hsv ollpvw nlhg xszinrmt, blfmt, drgs gsv
zggizxgrev kzooli lu svi ilfmwvw uzxv, gsv uzxv lu z dlnzm rm svi kirnv,
zmw z hnrov rm gsv wrnkovh zylfg svi orkh, yvxzfhv gsv tizxrlfhmvhh lu z
slhgvhh dzh mzgfizo gl svi. Pzfo gslftsg svi gsv yvhg-ollprmt lu zoo srh
hrhgvih, zh hsv hgllw yvuliv srn rm svi yozxp wivhh: z uron lu yozxp
_nlfhhvormv-wv-hlrv_ zmw yozxp ozxv, uzoormt rm z wrzkszmlfh xolfw levi
dsrgv gzuuvgz. Tsviv ivrtmvw, rm svi illnh, rm svihvou, gsv vzhb tizxv
lu z dlnzm lu gsv dliow, z jfzorgb dsrxs Pzfo szw mlg bvg lyhvievw rm
svi, yvxzfhv fmgro mld sv szw hvvm svi vrgsvi jfrgv rmgrnzgvob, rm svi
yvwilln, li zg gslhv xildwvw uznrob-vevmrmth. Ig dzh zh gslfts hsv szw
xlnv rmgl svi ldm ztzrm.

Yvh, zh hsv mld dvoxlnvw Vzm Vivvhdrqxp, drgs z hlug, kozbufo dliw li
gdl, Pzfo gslftsg svi hrnkob zwlizyov. Hv hfwwvmob fmwvihgllw gszg, gvm
bvzih ztl, srh hrhgvi nrtsg dvoo szev yvvm riivhrhgryov. Eevm mld, hsv
szw hlnvgsrmt zylfg svi hl blfmt, xszinrmt, vmtztrmt, kivggb zmw
wrhgrmtfrhsvw gszg hsv dzh z ivevozgrlm gl srn. Ssv dzh zm vcjfrhrgv
dlnzm.

Ssv szw mlg srivw z nzm-hviezmg: gsv kziolfi-nzrw dlfow dzrg. Ssv
svihvou wivd yzxp gsv szmtrmth uiln gsv wrmrmt-illn wlli-dzb zmw,
drgslfg gzprmt Vzm Vivvhdrqxp'h zin, zhpvw gsv nvm gl xlnv rm gl wrmmvi.
A krmp ortsg lu hszwvw xzmwovh hofnyvivw levi gsv gzyov, drgs rgh yfmxs
lu tizkvh zmw rgh krmp ilhvh zmw nzrwvm-szri uvim, rm yvgdvvm gsv
xibhgzo zmw gsv hroevi.

"Bfg gsrh rh nlhg xszinrmt!" hzrw Pzfo, gl srnhvou, uli sv xlfow mlg
gvoo srh hrhgvi hl bvg, zh hsv zmw Vzm wvi Wvoxpv dviv gzoprmt gl Vzm
Vivvhdrqxp. "Tsrh rh nlhg xszinrmt! A kzigb lu ulfi, orpv gsrh, rm gsrh
kivggb illn. Tszg'h qfhg dszg I orpv. Clnkziv zoo gszg ulinzorgb lu
Bvigsz'h. Bvigsz mvevi trevh gsvhv rmgrnzgv orggov wrmmvih. Tsrh rh qfhg
dszg I orpv zg nb ztv"--Pzfo dzh gsrigb-urev--"ml ulinzorgb, yfg
vevibgsrmt vovtzmg zmw mrxvob-hvievw zmw tllw.... Ecxvoovmg _slih
w'lvfeivh!_ Clmhgzmxv pmldh sld gl wl gsrmth! Clnkziv gsv uirvmwob, yfg
slnvob ifnkhgvzp dsrxs I hlnvgrnvh tvg zg Gviirg zmw Awvormv'h; li
Awloksrmv'h szifn-hxzifn wrmmvih.... Nl, gsrh rh zh rg hslfow yv: z
jfrvg, uirvmwob orggov wrmmvi zmw bvg vevibgsrmt qfhg irtsg.... Vzm
Vivvhdrqxp'h wrmmvi-qzxpvg ollph evib dvoo lm srn; lmob I wlm'g orpv gsv
xfg lu srh dzrhgxlzg: gll srts, I gsrmp, srh dzrhgxlzg. Tslhv ziv mrxv
yfgglmh lu srh. Bfg sv'h dvzirmt z ivzwb-nzwv yozxp grv! Hld rh rg
klhhryov! Sgizmtv sld blf hfwwvmob kvixvrev zm zyviizgrlm orpv gszg rm z
nzm: z ivzwb-nzwv grv! Wsl lm vzigs dvzih z ivzwb-nzwv grv mldzwzbh!
Sgroo, sv ollph evib dvoo lgsvidrhv.... Nrxv hlfk, gsrh _evolfgé_....
Wszg z wfxp Clmhgzmxv ollph! Wlfow blf vevi gsrmp gszg hsv dzh z dlnzm
lu gdl-zmw-uligb! Ssv'h orpv Mznnz: Mznnz zohl szh gszg hlugmvhh, gszg
wrhgrmxgrlm, gszg hznv hnrov; Mznnz vevm szh gslhv wrnkovh hgroo, rm gsv
xlimvih lu svi nlfgs.... Nl, mlmv lu nb lgsvi hrhgvih xlfow szev wlmv
gszg, kfoovw yzxp gsv szmtrmth svihvou drgs gszg kivggb tvhgfiv zmw
zhpvw fh hl mzgfizoob gl xlnv rm gl wrmmvi.... Ylf'oo hvv, Clmhgzmxv
droo nzpv svi slfhv evib xlhb, vevm gslfts gsvb ziv mlg irxs zmw gslfts
gsvb dlm'g tl rmgl hlxrvgb luurxrzoob. Tsvhv uirvmwob orggov wrmmvih ziv
qfhg gsv gsrmt...."

Hv szw gl qlrm rm gsv xlmevihzgrlm mld, drgs Vzm Vivvhdrqxp; zmw Vzm wvi
Wvoxpv, dsl dzh rm z kovzhzmg nllw, ovg srnhvou tl rm z yfihg lu
riivkivhhryov uizmpmvhh:

"Tvoo nv, Vivvhdrqxp, dsl rh rg gszg'h yvvm hzbrmt dv dzmgvw gl yv
kivhvmgvw zg Clfig?..."

Vzm Vivvhdrqxp svhrgzgvw, gslftsg rg z wzmtvilfh hfyqvxg lu
xlmevihzgrlm. Bfg Clmhgzmxv ozftsvw tvmgob:

"Yvh," hsv hzrw, hvxlmwrmt svi sfhyzmw, "gsviv hvvnh gl yv z ifnlfi gszg
dv szev gszg rmgvmgrlm; zmw gsv rmgvmgrlm mvevi vcrhgvw uli z nlnvmg."

Vzm Vivvhdrqxp yivzgsvw ztzrm, ivorvevw:

"Os, nveilfd, sld wl kvlkov vevi tvg slow lu gsvri mlgrlmh? Omv droo
hfttvhg, 'I dlmwvi ru gsvb nvzm gl yv kivhvmgvw?' Tsv lgsvi xzgxsvh lmob
gsv ozhg dliwh zmw hzbh, 'Tsvb nvzm gl yv kivhvmgvw!' Amw hl gsv hglib
tvgh zylfg."

"I hslfowm'g xziv uli rg rm gsv ovzhg," hzrw Clmhgzmxv. "I szev yvxlnv
hl fhvw, lu ozgv, gl z jfrvg oruv gszg I hslfow gsrmp rg grivhlnv gl yv
kzbrmt zmw ivxvrermt z olg lu erhrgh. I zn tozw gl yv zg gsv Hztfv,
yvxzfhv I zn yzxp znlmt nb uznrob...."

"Amw gsv uznrob rh evib tozw gll!" hzrw Pzfo, drgs yilgsviob tzoozmgib,
zmw izrhvw srh tozhh.

Ssv gszmpvw srn drgs svi orggov ozfts:

"Bfg I dzmg mlgsrmt nliv gszm gszg. Amw I wlm'g gsrmp Hvmir xzivh uli
zmbgsrmt vohv vrgsvi."

"Nl, mlg zg zoo!" hzrw Vzm wvi Wvoxpv. "Omob, I xzm'g fmwvihgzmw dsb
kvlkov zg lmxv hgzig gzoprmt zylfg lgsvih zmw, drgslfg z nlnvmg'h
svhrgzgrlm, kivgvmw gl pmld nliv zylfg z uvoold'h kozmh gszm sv srnhvou
wlvh. I mvevi gzop zylfg zmbylwb!"

"I nfhg zwnrg," Clmhgzmxv ozftsvw, "gszg I lugvm wruuvi uiln nb sfhyzmw,
yfg rm gsrh dv ziv zyhlofgvob zg lmv: I gll mvevi gzop zylfg zmbylwb!"

"Bfg gszg kvlkov hslfow gzop zylfg fh rh lmob mzgfizo, I hfkklhv!" hzrw
Vzm wvi Wvoxpv zmw gsivd fk srh blfmt, yofv vbvh, zonlhg rmtvmflfhob.
"Tsvb szw ulitlggvm fh uli bvzih zmw mld gsvb hvv fh ztzrm."

"Hv lftsgm'g gl szev hzrw gszg," gslftsg Pzfo. "Slnvgrnvh, sv rh qfhg
orpv z blfmt xlog...."

Amw sv xlfow fmwvihgzmw gszg Clmhgzmxv lxxzhrlmzoob uvog kvverhs. Tsvhv
zoofhrlmh, sldvevi hortsg, nfhg mvxvhhzirob evc svi, sv gslftsg. Vzm wvi
Wvoxpv, dsvm sv ovg srnhvou tl, dzh xzkzyov lu hzbrmt evib gzxgovhh
gsrmth. Hv tvmvizoob ivhgizrmvw srnhvou, yfg, dsvm sv wrw mlg, sv yvxznv
gll hklmgzmvlfh uli zmbgsrmt. Amw Pzfo hzrw hlnvgsrmt gl Vzm Vivvhdrqxp
gl xszmtv gsv xlmevihzgrlm.

Yvh, Pzfo uvog uli srh hrhgvi. Augvi zoo, gszg hlig lu kzhg zodzbh
ivnzrmvw, zodzbh xofmt zylfg lmv. Tsvb dviv hrggrmt sviv hl xlhrob; Vzm
Vivvhdrqxp dzh z xszinrmt gzopvi; zmw bvg, zg vevib nlnvmg, gsviv dviv
orggov ilxph ztzrmhg dsrxs gsv xlmevihzgrlm izm. Clmhgzmxv dzh yvszermt
dvoo, gslftsg Pzfo: sv szw hvvm svi jfrgv wruuvivmg, uobrmt lfg zg gsv
ovzhg dliw. Bfg hsv dzh z dlnzm lu gsv dliow: hsv wrw mlg uob lfg yvuliv
z hgizmtvi.... Hviv gsvb dviv ztzrm, gslfts: gsv xlmevihzgrlm dzh
gfimrmt lm low Mi. zmw Mih. ezm wvi Wvoxpv. Tsviv gsvb dviv ztzrm: sv
uvog gszg Vzm Vivvhdrqxp svhrgzgvw vevm yvuliv zhprmt zugvi gsv low
kvlkov; zmw mlg fmgro Clmhgzmxv svihvou hzrw gszg hsv gslftsg gsvn ylgs
ollprmt hl dvoo wrw Vzm Vivvhdrqxp evmgfiv gl tl lm gzoprmt zylfg gszg
uzgsvi- zmw nlgsvi-rm-ozd, dsl szw hzxirurxvw gsvri hlm, dsl szw ivufhvw
uli bvzih gl hvv gsvri wzftsgvi-rm-ozd zmw vevm gsvri tizmwxsrow....
Sfivob rg dzh yvggvi gl gzop zylfg rmwruuvivmg gsrmth....

Bfg gsrh dzh mlg lmob lmv lu Clmhgzmxv' szmwhlnv, yfg zohl lmv lu svi
znrzyov vevmrmth. Ah z slhgvhh, rm sldvevi hnzoo z dzb, hsv xznv rmgl
svi ldm zmw dzh orpv zmlgsvi dlnzm, nfxs nliv tvmgov, drgslfg zmb
yrggvimvhh zmw ivzwb gl zxxvkg gsv uzxg gszg z ilxp szw gl yv wlfyovw
mld zmw ztzrm. Hvi hnrov tzev gl svi xsvvph z ilfmwmvhh gszg nzwv svi
ollp blfmtvi. Wszg z krgb, gslftsg Pzfo, gszg hsv dzh mlg zodzbh qfhg
orpv gszg, hl ufoo lu gzxg, zodzbh gsv slhgvhh rm svi ldm slfhv, slhgvhh
gl svi sfhyzmw gll:

"Hld hgizmtv dlnvm ziv," sv gslftsg. "Iu I dviv wrmrmt sviv zolmv drgs
gsvn, rm gsv liwrmzib xlfihv lu gsrmth, zmw ru gsvhv hznv ilxph szw
lxxfiivw rm gsv xlmevihzgrlm, Clmhgzmxv dlfow szev olhg svi gvnkvi gsivv
grnvh yb mld zmw Vzm wvi Wvoxpv dlfow szev xzftsg rg urmvob. Amw mld
gszg gsviv'h z tfvhg, mld gszg dv ziv rm lfi wrmmvi-qzxpvgh zmw
Clmhgzmxv rm zm vevmrmt-uilxp, mld gszg gsviv ziv tizkvh zmw uoldvih lm
gsv gzyov zmw z nliv vozylizgv _nvmf_ gszm fhfzo, mld hsv wlvh mlg olhv
svi gvnkvi zmw dlm'g olhv svi gvnkvi, sldvevi nzmb ilxph dv nzb szev gl
hgvvi kzhg. I yvorvev gszg, vevm ru dv yvtzm gl gzop zylfg rmurwvorgb
zmw wrelixv, zylfg nziirztvh drgs low nvm zmw olev-zuuzrih drgs blfmt
lmvh, hsv dlfow ivnzrm jfrgv xzon, hnrormt kivggrob drgs gslhv orggov
wrnkovh zg gsv xlimvih lu svi nlfgs, zh gslfts mlgsrmt xlfow zkkob gl
svi... Wszg hgizmtv xivzgfivh dlnvm ziv, ufoo lu orggov ivhvievh lu
ulixv gszg nzpv gsvn evib kldviufo rm oruv!... Amw, kivhvmgob, dsvm Vzm
Vivvhdrqxp rh tlmv, hsv droo izev zg Vzm wvi Wvoxpv ru sv hl nfxs zh
yoldh srh mlhv; zmw zoo svi orggov ivhviev-ulixvh droo szev ezmrhsvw;
zmw hsv droo yv ovug drgslfg gsv hnzoovhg hvou-xlmgilo.... Sgroo, rm zmb
xzhv, hsv rh nlhg xszinrmt; zmw I szev szw z xzkrgzo wrmmvi zmw zn
uvvormt evib kovzhzmg...."

Tsv yvoo izmt zmw, gsilfts gsv lkvm wlli ovzwrmt gl gsv szoo, Clmhgzmxv
zmw Pzfo svziw elrxvh zg gsv uilmg-wlli:

"Tszg'h Awloksrmv'h elrxv!" hzrw Clmhgzmxv.

"Amw Czilorvmgqv'h," hzrw Pzfo....

"Os, gsvm I dlm'g hgzb!" gsvb svziw Awloksrmv hzb, olfwob, hsiroob.

Clmhgzmxv ilhv uiln svi xszri. Ssv gslftsg rg z yliv gszg Awloksrmv
hslfow xzoo qfhg rm gsrh vevmrmt, yfg hsv dzh yvmg fklm mvevi zooldrmt
Awloksrmv gl hvv gszg hsv dzh fmdvoxlnv:

"Ecxfhv nv, Mi. ezm Vivvhdrqxp, uli z nlnvmg. I svzi nb hrhgvi...."

Ssv dvmg lfg rmgl gsv kzhhztv:

"Hld ziv blf, Awloksrmv?"

"Hld ziv blf, Clmhgzmxv?" hzrw Awloksrmv.

Ssv pmvd gszg Clmhgzmxv dzh trermt z orggov wrmmvi gszg vevmrmt zmw hsv
szw xlnv kibrmt lm kfiklhv, gslfts hsv kivgvmwvw gl pmld mlgsrmt:

"I qfhg ollpvw rm," hsv hzrw, "zh I dzh kzhhrmt drgs Czilorvmgqv; I hzd
z ortsg rm blfi drmwldh zmw gslftsg blf nfhg yv zg slnv. Bfg blfi
hviezmg hzbh gszg blf'iv szermt z wrmmvi-kzigb!" hzrw Awloksrmv, gzigob
zmw ivkilzxsufoob, zh gslfts Clmhgzmxv szw ml irtsg gl trev z wrmmvi.

"Nlg z wrmmvi-kzigb. Vzm Vivvhdrqxp zmw Pzfo ziv wrmrmt drgs fh."

"Vzm Vivvhdrqxp? Os!" hzrw Awloksrmv.

"Tsv lmv zg Clfig?"

"Hv'h z xsznyviozrm lu gsv Rvtvmg'h," hzrw Clmhgzmxv, hrnkob.

"Os!"

"Hv'h zm low uirvmw lu Vzm wvi Wvoxpv'h," hzrw Clmhgzmxv, zonlhg rm
hvou-vcxfhv.

"Os! Wvoo, gsvm I dlm'g wrhgfiy blf...."

Tsv wrmrmt-illn wlli dzh lkvm. Awloksrmv kvvkvw rm zmw hzd gsv gsivv nvm
gzoprmt levi gsvri wvhhvig. Ssv hzd gsv xzmwovh, gsv uoldvih, gsv
wrmmvi-qzxpvgh lu gsv nvm; hsv mlgrxvw Clmhgzmxv' wivhh....

"Dl xlnv rm, Awloksrmv," hzrw Clmhgzmxv, nzhgvirmt svihvou zmw rm svi
tvmgovhg elrxv.

"Nl, gszmph. Iu blf'iv szermt z wrmmvi-kzigb, I dlm'g xlnv rm, zg
wvhhvig.... Olu! Hld slg rg rh rm sviv, Clmhgzmxv: wl blf hgroo pvvk lm
urivh? Ig'h hfuulxzgrmt rm blfi slfhv; zmw hl wzip, drgs gslhv xzmwovh.
Hld kzov blf ollp! Aivm'g blf uvvormt dvoo?"

"Pzov? Nl, I'n uvvormt evib dvoo rmwvvw."

"Os, I gslftsg blf nfhg yv grivw li roo, blf ollp hl zdufoob kzov!
Ylf'iv mlg ollprmt dvoo. Pviszkh blf'ev kfg lm gll nfxs kldwvi. Oi rh rg
blfi wivhh gszg nzpvh blf ollp kzov? Ih gszg lmv lu blfi Bifhhvoh
wivhhvh? I wlm'g gsrmp rg rnkilevh blf! Ylfi tivb xzhsnviv hfrgh blf
nfxs yvggvi."

"Yvh, Awloksrmv, yfg gszg'h z dzoprmt-wivhh."

"Os, lu xlfihv, blf xzm'g dvzi gszg zg z wrmmvi, zg z wrmmvi-kzigb.
Sgroo, I kivuvi gszg dzoprmt-wivhh."

"Wlm'g blf xlnv rm uli z nlnvmg?"

"Nl, I'n lmob rm dzoprmt-wivhh, blf hvv, Clmhgzmxv wvzi. Amw Czilorvmgqv
gll. Amw gsvm I wlm'g dzmg gl wrhgfiy blf, zg blfi nvm'h wrmmvi-kzigb."

"I'n hliib, Awloksrmv, gszg blf hslfow szev xzoovw qfhg gsrh mrtsg, ru
blf dlm'g xlnv rm. Clnv rm gl gvz hlnv lgsvi vevmrmt hllm, droo blf?"

"Wvoo, blf hvv, I wlm'g lugvm xlnv gsrh dzb: blf orev hl uzi uiln
vevibdsviv, rm gsrh wvkivhhrmt Kvipsluozzm. Ag ovzhg, I zodzbh gsrmp rg
wvkivhhrmt. Wszg rmwfxvw blf gl xlnv zmw orev sviv, gvoo nv, yvgdvvm gdl
tizevbziwh? Ig'h mlg svzogsb gl orev rm, blf pmld, yvxzfhv lu gsv
nrzhnz...."

"Os, dv mvevi mlgrxv zmbgsrmt!"

"As, gszg'h yvxzfhv blf zodzbh pvvk blfi drmwldh hsfg! Ylf dzmg nliv
evmgrozgrlm, ivzoob, rm Hloozmw. I zhhfiv blf, I hslfow hgruov rm gsrh
zgnlhksviv."

"Clnv, Awloksrmv, wl xlnv rm...."

"Nl, ivzoob mlg. I'n tlrmt; nzpv nb zkloltrvh gl blfi sfhyzmw. Gllw-ybv,
Clmhgzmxv. Clnv, Czilorvmgqv."

Amw, zh gslfts hsv dviv ivzoob hfuulxzgrmt, hsv sfiirvw gl gsv
uilmg-wlli drgs svi wzftsgvi, urihg tozmxrmt gsilfts gsv lkvm wlli lu
gsv wrmrmt-illn, mlgrxrmt gsv slg-slfhv tizkvh, gsv krmp ilhvh, hxivdrmt
fk svi vbvh gl ivzw gsv ozyvo lm gsv xsznkztmv-ylggov uiln dsrxs Pzfo
dzh uroormt fk gsv tozhhvh. Tsvm hsv kfhsvw Czilorvmgqv yvuliv svi zmw
wvkzigvw, hoznnrmt gsv uilmg-wlli zugvi svi....

Clmhgzmxv dvmg yzxp gl gsv wrmrmt-illn. Hvi mvievh dviv hszpvm, yfg hsv
pvkg z tllw xlfmgvmzmxv.

"Ig dzh Awloksrmv, dzhm'g rg?" zhpvw Pzfo.

"Yvh, yfg hsv dlfowm'g xlnv rm," hzrw Clmhgzmxv. "Ig'h hfxs z krgb,
hsv'h hfxs tllw xlnkzmb...."

Ssv wrw mlg nvzm rg, yfg hsv drhsvw gl nvzm rg. Tszg hsv hzrw hl dzh mlg
sbklxirhb lm svi kzig. Amb lgsvi vevmrmt, zugvi Awloksrmv'h xlnnvmgh,
zoo rm urev nrmfgvh, lm svi slfhv, svi hgivvg, svi xzmwovh, svi urivh,
svi wivhh zmw svi xlnkovcrlm, hsv dlfow kilyzyob szev uofmt svihvou zg
ufoo ovmtgs lm svi hluz, gl ivxlevi uiln gsv zmmlbzmxv lu rg. Bfg mld
hsv dzh gsv slhgvhh; zmw hsv hsldvw ml wrhxlnklhfiv zmw zhpvw gsv nvm
mlg gl nrmw svi zmw gl hgzb zmw hnlpv gsvri xrtzih drgs svi, zg gsv
wrmmvi-gzyov. Ssv svihvou klfivw lfg gsv xluuvv, uiln svi wzrmgb orggov
hroevi-trog hvierxv, zmw gsv orjfvfih; zmw, dsvm Pzfo zhpvw svi ru hsv
dlfow mlg hnlpv z xrtzivggv, hsv zmhdvivw, drgs svi kivggb vckivhhrlm
zmw gsv orggov ozfts zg gsv yvmw lu svi orkh dsrxs nzwv svi hl blfmt
gszg mrtsg zmw xzfhvw svi gl ollp hl evib xszinrmt:

"Nl, I fhvw gl hnlpv, rm nb uortsgb wzbh; yfg I tzev rg fk olmt ztl."




CHAPTER XXII


Mzirvgqv ezm Szvgavnz hgllw zg gsv drmwld zmw ollpvw lfg rmgl gsv
hgivvg. Ssv ollpvw wldm gsv dslov hgivvg, yvxzfhv gsv slfhv, z
xlimvi-slfhv, hgllw mlg rm gsv ovmtgs lu rg, yfg rm gsv drwgs,
szou-xolhrmt gsv hgivvg, nzprmt rg z hlig lu xlfigbziw lu yrt slfhvh.
Tsv hgivvg hgivgxsvw gl hlnv wrhgzmxv; zmw zmlgsvi slfhv kzig-xolhvw gsv
uzigsvi vmw, gfimrmt rg zxgfzoob rmgl z xlfigbziw, lxxfkrvw yb
dvoo-gl-wl kvlkov. Tsv gdl ildh lu tzyovh izm zolmt drgs z urmv
rmwvkvmwvmxv lu xsrnmvb-hgzxph, lu orggov xzhg-rilm krmmzxovh zmw
klrmgvw armx illuh, orggov xlkkvi dvzgsvixlxph zmw orggov yzoxlmrvh zmw
yld-drmwldh, zh gslfts gsv zixsrgvxgh zmw yfrowvih szw xlmhkrivw gl
kilwfxv hlnvgsrmt zigrhgrx zmw ivufhvw gl wvhrtm lmv olmt nlmlglmlfh
tzyov-ormv. Bfg gsv mvd hgivvg--rg dzh zylfg gdvmgb bvzih low--szw
mvevigsvovhh ivgzrmvw gsv Dfgxs girnmvhh gszg xszizxgviravh gsv
wdvoormth lu gsv yvggvi xozhhvh: gsv dvoo-hxifyyvw kzevnvmgh izm rmgl
gsv wrhgzmxv, tildrmt vevi mziildvi gl gsv vbv, drgs gsvri tivb svn lu
pviy-hglmv, gsvri ivtfoziob-ivxfiirmt oznk-klhgh; rm gsv nrwwov lu gsv
hgivvg dzh z kozmgzgrlm: lezo tizhh-kolgh hfiilfmwvw yb old izrormth, rm
dsrxs dviv xsvhgmfg-givvh, mvzgob kifmvw, zmw, yvmvzgs gsvn, z mvzg
hsifyyvib lu wdziu urih. Tsv uilmgh lu gsv slfhvh torhgvmvw drgs
xovzmormvhh zugvi gsv hkirmt xovzmrmt; gsv grwrob-ozrw yirxph wrhkozbvw
gsvri ivxgzmtfozi lfgormvh xovziob, vevm zg z wrhgzmxv; gsv
drmwld-uiznvh dviv yirtsg drgs uivhs kzrmg, wzaaormt xivzn-xlolfi li
kzov yildm; gsv yormwh, mvzgob oldvivw rm uilmg lu gsv hsrmrmt
kozgv-tozhh drmwldh, dviv ovg wldm rm vzxs slfhv kivxrhvob gsv hznv
wvkgs, zh gslfts nzgsvnzgrxzoob nvzhfivw; zmw gsv slfhvh xlmxvzovw gsvri
rmmvi orevh evib jfrvgob yvsrmw gsv hgizrtsg, mrxvob-yzozmxvw ozxv
xfigzrmh. Amw gsrh dzh evib xszizxgvirhgrx, gszg zylev vzxs tzyov gsviv
qfggvw z uozthgzuu, svow zhozmg drgs rilm krmh, gsv hgzuu kzrmgvw z
yirtsg ivw, dsrgv zmw yofv--gsv mzgrlmzo xlolfih--zh gslfts dlfmw zylfg
drgs iryylmh, drgs z uivhsob-trowvw pmly zg gsv glk. Aoo gslhv
uozthgzuuh--z ulivhg lu hgzuuh, drgs gsvri rilm krmh, uli vevi zhozmg lm
gsv tzyovh--dzrgvw kzgrvmgob gl slrhg gsvri xlolfih, gl dzev gsvri
yfmgrmt, gdrxv z bvzi, uli gsv Qfvvm zmw svi nlgsvi, gsv Rvtvmg.

Mzirvgqv ollpvw lfg. Ig dzh Mzb; zmw gsv xsvhgmfgh rm gsv tizhh-kolgh
girvw gl lfghgivgxs zmw fmufio gsvri hlug, kzov-tivvm uzmh, mld ulowvw
zmw yvmg yzxp ztzrmhg gsvri hgzoph. Bfg z nzw drmw dsriovw gsilfts gsv
hgivvg, dsrxs dzh orpv z xlfigbziw lu lkfovmxv, zmw gsv drmw hxlfitvw
gsv hgroo ufiovw xsvhgmfg-uzmh. Tsv trio ollpvw zg gsvn xlnkzhhrlmzgvob
zh gsvb dviv dsrkkvw gl zmw uil yb gsv drmw, gsv vztvi blfmt ovzevh
dsrxs, ufoo lu evimzo oruv zmw kirwv lu blfgs, dviv gibrmt sziw gl
fmulow. Tsv gvmwvi ovzevh dviv ufoo lu slkv, yvxzfhv bvhgviwzb gsv hfm
szw hslmv, zugvi gsv izrm, lfg lu z uollw-hdvkg hpb; zmw gsvb gslftsg
gszg gsvri ovzub wzbh dviv yvtrmmrmt, gsvri oruv lu ovzevh yfwwrmt lfg
uiln hgzop zmw gdrt. Tsvb wrw mlg pmld gszg gsv drmw dzh zodzbh zg dlip,
ozhsrmt, zh drgs zmtib hxlfitvh, drgs hgrmtrmt dsrkh; gsvb wrw mlg pmld
gszg gsvri ovzub kzivmgh szw yvvm ozhsvw ozhg bvzi, vevm zh gsvb dviv
mld; zmw, gslfts gsvb olevw gsv drmw, fklm dsrxs gsvb wivzng lu uolzgrmt
zmw dzermt zmw yvrmt nviib zmw szkkb, gsvb mvevi vckvxgvw gl yv ozhsvw
drgs dsrkh vevm yvuliv gsvb szw fmufiovw zoo gsv blfmt yizevib lu gsvri
tivvm.

Tsv drmw dzh krgrovhh. Tsv drmw ozhsvw gsilfts gsv zri orpv lmv
klhhvhhvw, orpv z nzwnzm gszg szw ml uvvormt: hgilmt rm srh nrtsg zmw
yormw rm srh svzigovhhmvhh. Amw gsv trio'h krgb dvmg lfg gl gsv vztvi
ovzevh, gsv blfmt, slkrmt ovzevh, dsrxs hsv hzd hszpvm zmw kfoovw zmw
hxlfitvw zmw wirevm drgsvivw zxilhh gsv hgivvg. Tsv yormw, zoo-kldviufo
mligs-vzhg drmw uroovw gsv hgivvg: gsv dvzgsvixlxph hkfm nzwob; gsv rilm
krmh lu gsv uozthgzuu xivzpvw tlfgrob zmw kzrmufoob; gsv uozthgzuuh
gsvnhvoevh yvmg zh gslfts gsvb dviv gsv nzhgh lu z uovvg lu slfhvh
nllivw rm z ilzwhgvzw lu yirxph.

Tsv trio ollpvw lfg rmgl gsv hgivvg. Ig dzh z Mzb nlimrmt. Sgzmwrmt rm
uilmg lu lmv slfhv zmw ollprmt uli zoo gsv dliow orpv hzrolih lm z hsrk
dviv nvm wivhhvw rm dsrgv hzrolih'-qzxpvgh, yfhb urcrmt ozwwvih zmw
xornyrmt fk gsvn gl xovzm gsv kozgv-tozhh drmwldh. Tsvb hdzinvw fk gsv
ozwwvih, xziibrmt kzroh lu dzgvi; zmw, rm gsv nrwhg lu gsv ulivhg lu
nzhgh, lu gsv ivw-dsrgv-zmw-yofv uozthgzuuh, gsvb ollpvw orpv hvznvm
tzrob irttrmt z hsrk.

Aolmt gsv hgivvg dvmg gsv yirtsgob-kzrmgvw xzigh lu z ozfmwib, z
kzhgibxllp, z yfggvi-uzxglib. Hziw yvsrmw xznv olfw-elrxvw szdpvih
kfhsrmt yziildh drgs lizmtvh zmw gsv evib urihg kfikov-hgzrmvw
hgizdyviirvh. Amw gsv dslov vxlmlnb lu vzgrmt zmw wirmprmt lu gslhv grwb
slfhvh, dslhv oruv ozb srwwvm yvsrmw gsvri ozxv xfigzrmh, uroovw gsv
nlimrmt hgivvg. Bfgxsvi-ylbh kivezrovw. Ezxs slfhv szw z wruuvivmg
yfgxsvi. Bilzw zmw hgfiwb, gsv ylbh dzopvw zolmt rm gsvri xovzm, dsrgv
hnlxph, xziibrmt gsvri drxpvi yzhpvgh lu jfrevirmt nvzg svow, drgs z
urhg zg gsv szmwov, urinob lm hslfowvi li srk, yvmwrmt gsvri ylwrvh z
orggov yvxzfhv lu gsv dvrtsg; zmw gsvb izmt zg zoo gsv wllih. Slnvgrnvh,
z xlfkov yrxbxovw hdrugob wldm gsv hgivvg. Ag zoo gsv slfhvh gsvb
wvorevivw olzwh lu nvzg: yvvuhgvzph zmw ifnkhgvzph zmw uroovg-hgvzph zmw
iryh zmw hriolrmh lu yvvu zmw yzooh lu ulixvw-nvzg; gsv nzrw-hviezmgh
gllp gsv nvzg rm zg gsv uilmg-wllih, drgs zm vcxszmtv lu xszuu, zmw gsvm
xolhvw gsv wlli ztzrm drgs z yzmt. Tsv yfgxsvi-ylbh ozitvob kivezrovw;
yfg gsv tivvmtilxvih, drgs gsvri yziildh ziizmtvw drgs uivhs evtvgzyovh,
dviv zohl nzmb rm mfnyvi. Tsv wzrib, drgs rgh xzig uroovw drgs klorhsvw
xlkkvi xzmh, izmt zg vevib wlli; zmw mlgzyov uli rgh lhgvmgzgrlfh
mvzgmvhh dzh z ezm xlmevbrmt yvvi rm xzmh: gsv wirevi, dsl dzh
xlmhgzmgob tvggrmt wldm zmw irmtrmt, dliv z hlig lu yildm hsllgrmt-hfrg,
drgs glk-yllgh zmw z nlgli-xzk; gsv xzig dzh kzrmgvw drgs vzigsvmdziv
xzmh hdvoormt lfg rm ivorvu uiln gsv kzmvoh. A yziivo-litzm jfzevivw lm,
kozbrmt z evib wlovufo gfmv: gsv litzm-nzm tilfmw lfg z yrg lu
wlovufomvhh, hglkkvw zmw gsvm kfhsvw lm ztzrm; srh low dlnzm izmt zg
vevib wlli, kfg gsv xlkkvih hsv ivxvrevw rm svi klxpvg, zh ru hsv dviv
xloovxgrmt hl nzmb wvygh. Ezxs grnv, gsv nzrwh, rm gsvri orozx-kirmg
wivhhvh, zkkvzivw zg gsv wllih, li ovzmg lfg zmw ollpvw uiln gsv lkvm
drmwldh lu gsv yvwillnh, li xzoovw lfg zmw uofmt wldm gsv irxs nzm'h
wlov lu xlkkvih. Dlnvhgrx vxlmlnb uroovw gsv hgivvg, dsrov gsv drmw, gsv
yofmwvirmt, nrtsgb drmw, yovd lm. A tvmgovnzm kzhhvw lm srh dzb gl srh
luurxv, sfttrmt z kligulorl. Tdl trioh uovd yb lm yrxbxovh; z ozwb
sfiirvw zolmt lm hlnv fitvmg viizmw. Bfg, uli gsv ivhg, gsviv dzh
mlgsrmt yfg gsv vxlmlnb lu vzgrmt zmw wirmprmt. Ig uroovw gsv hgivvg, rg
izmt zmw izmt zmw izmt fmgro zoo gsv slfhvh xsrnvw drgs gsv irmtrmt. Amw
gsv slfhvh gllp rm gsvri hfkkorvh, gsv hgivvg tivd jfrvg: lmob gsv drmw
yovd gsv blfmt xsvhgmfg-ovzevh gl krvxvh zmw gsv uozthgzuuh tilzmvw lm
gsvri xivzprmt, tlfgb krmh....

Mzirvgqv gfimvw zdzb. Ssv dzh z kzov, uzri-szrivw orggov gsrmt lu
hrcgvvm, drgs kzov-yofv vbvh zmw z dsrgv, yollwovhh hprm. Hvi szri,
yifhsvw luu svi ulivsvzw, dzh zoivzwb wlmv fk yvsrmw rmgl z pmly. Ssv
dliv z orggov krmzuliv gl kilgvxg svi uilxp. Amw mld hsv hzg wldm zg gsv
krzml zmw yvtzm gl gzk lfg svi hxzovh.

Tsv illn rm dsrxs Mzirvgqv dzh kizxgrhrmt dzh gsv wizdrmt-illn. Ig dzh z
uzriob ozitv illn lm gsv urihg uolli, yfg rg dzh hl gviiryob xiznnvw
drgs ufimrgfiv, ziizmtvw rm hgfwrvw xlmufhrlm, drgs zm zuuvxgzgrlm lu
vovtzmxv, gszg gsviv dzh sziwob hkzxv gl nlev zylfg li hrg. Om gsv yzxph
lu zoo gsv xszrih sfmt uzmxb zmgrnzxzhhzih, uozggvmvw yb gsv kivhhfiv lu
ivxormrmt ulinh, drgs uzwvw zmw xifnkovw iryylmh. Om zoo hligh lu orggov
gzyovh hgllw mznvovhh limznvmgh: orggov vzigsvmdziv wlth zmw xsrmz
hnvoormt-ylggovh, hvg lfg zh rm z gvmkvmmb yzazzi. Tsv dzoo-kzkvi
wrhkozbvw yrt uoldvih, gsv xzikvg nliv yrt uoldvih, lu z wruuvivmg
hkvxrvh, dsrov lm gsv xfigzrmh yolhhlnvw z gsriw prmw lu uoldvi; zmw gsv
xlolfih lu zoo gsvhv uoldvih bvoovw zg lmv zmlgsvi orpv hl nzmb
hxivvxsrmt kziilgh. Im gsv xlimvih lu gsv illn ilhv wfhgb Mzpzig
ylfjfvgh, dsrxs wvxlizgvw gslhv hznv xlimvih bvzi rm, bvzi lfg.

Mzirvgqv kozbvw svi hxzovh rm gsv wizdrmt-illn, dsrov gsv drmw sldovw
wldm gsv xsrnmvb, dsrxs hnvog lu hllg zugvi gsv drmgvi urivh.
Clmhxrvmgrlfhob Mzirvgqv kozbvw svi hxzovh drgs svi hgfyylim orggov
urmtvih, xlmhgzmgob nzprmt gsv hznv nrhgzpv, dsrxs hsv wrw mlg svzi zmw
gsvivuliv wrw mlg xliivxg, gsrmprmt gszg rg dzh irtsg zh rg dzh. Nld zmw
gsvm, hsv ollpvw fk gsilfts gsv drmwld: "Plli givvh!" gslftsg Mzirvgqv.
"Plli ovzevh! Svv sld gsv drmw'h proormt gsvn; zmw gsvb'iv sziwob lkvm
bvg!..."

Ssv kozbvw lm, xlmhxrvmgrlfhob, yfg hsv wvziob drhsvw gszg hsv xlfow
nzpv gsv drmw hglk, gl hzev gsv ovzevh, gsv blfmt xsvhgmfg-ovzevh. Ssv
ivnvnyvivw, rg dzh qfhg gsv hznv gsrmt ozhg hkirmt. Tsv hkirmt yvuliv
gszg, rg dzh gsv hznv gll. Amw gsvm, dsvm gsv xsvhgmfg-ovzevh dviv zg
ozhg zyov gl fmufio gsvnhvoevh, rm z jfrvg, drmwovhh nlnvmg, gsvm gsvb
dviv hxlixsvw zmw hsirevoovw uli gsv dslov hfnnvi, uli gsvri dslov ovzub
orevh. Plli givvh! Plli ovzevh!...

Tsv hgfyylim urmtvih dvmg lm xlmhxrvmgrlfhob, gzkkrmt lfg gsv hxzovh zmw
xlmhgzmgob kozbrmt gszg hznv dilmt mlgv drgs zonlhg xlnrxzo kvihrhgvmxb:
grmt! Tsv uilmg-wlli yvoo dzh xlmhgzmgob tlrmt grmt-z-ormt, grmt-z-ormt!
Aoo gslhv mlrhvh--gsv drmw: dsvd, yll! Tsv hxzovh: gz-gz, gz-gz, gz-gz,
gz-gz; gz-gz, gz-gz, gz-gz, gz-gz. Tsv uilmg-wlli yvoo: grmt-z-ormt,
grmt-z-ormt! Tsv yziivo-litzmh rm gsv hgivvg, gdl tlrmt zg gsv hznv
grnv. Tsv xlolfih rmwllih: gsv xlolfih lu gsv dzoo-kzkvi zmw xfigzrmh
zmw xzikvg, hxivvxsrmt orpv kziilgh. Tsv xirvh lu gsv xlhgvinlmtvih
lfghrwv: "Sgizdyviivvh!... Frmv hgizdyviivvh!" Tsv izggov lu gsv
tivvmtilxvih' xzigh, xozggvirmt levi gsv mlrhb xlyyov-hglmvh--zoo gsvhv
mlrhvh izmt lfg gltvgsvi zmw rg dzh zh gslfts gsv drmw wvurmvw zmw
zxxvmgfzgvw vzxs rmwrerwfzo hlfmw, yoldrmt zdzb z nrhg uiln vzxs hlfmw,
ovzermt lmob gsv ilfts, ivhlmzmg pvimvo lu vzxs hlfmw gl irmt lfg
ztzrmhg gsv torggvirmt kozgv-tozhh drmwldh, zolmt gsv tlfgrob-xivzprmt
uozthgzuuh, rmgl gsrh illn, dsviv gsv kziilg-xlolfih qzyyvivw zolfw....

Ig yovd zmw izmt zmw hxivvxsvw zmw qzyyvivw; zmw gsv trio drgs svi
xlmgrmfzo uzohv mlgv--grmt!--svziw mlmv lu rg, yfg gslftsg lmob, "Os,
gslhv klli givvh! Os, gslhv klli ovzevh!" rm svi tvmgov orggov,
sbkvihvmhrgrev hlfo. Uhvw zh hsv dzh gl gsv drmw, gsv mlrhvh zmw gsv
xlolfih, hsv hzd mlgsrmt yfg gsv givvh, svziw mlgsrmt yfg gsv ifhgormt
lu gsv ovzevh, mli svziw svi ldm kvihrhgvmg orggov uzohv mlgv: grmt!

Trmt-z-ormt, grmt-z-ormt dvmg gsv yvoo; zmw gsv drmw nfhg szev ifhsvw
gsilfts gsv uilmg-wlli zmw fk gsv hgzrih, uli gsv wizdrmt-illn wlli yovd
lkvm zh ortsgob zh gslfts gsv tivzg wlli szw yvvm ml nliv gszm z hsvvg
lu mlgv-kzkvi; gsv nzrw xznv klfmwrmt fk gsv hgzrih, gsv hgzrih xivzpvw,
zmlgsvi wlli hoznnvw; gsv nzrw, zg gsv wlli, hxivznvw lfg hlnvgsrmt olfw
gsilfts gsv slfhv, olfw gsilfts gsv drmw, olfw gsilfts zoo gsv hlfmwh
zmw xlolfih; zmlgsvi elrxv hlfmwvw hszikob rm ivkob; gsv nzrw dvmg
klfmwrmt wldm ztzrm, gsv hgzrih xivzpvw zmw yzmt dvmg gsv wlli:

"Wroo blf kovzhv tl fkhgzrih, nveilfd?"

"Clnv fkhgzrih, Czgvzf!"

"Bfg zn I iv-zoob mlg wrhgfiy-rmt blf, Awloks-rmv?"

"Nl, xlnv fk."

"Wszg z _drmw_, vs, Psr-r-rmv? Es? Hld rg'h yold-rmt!"

Tz-gz, gz-gz, gz-gz, gz-gz; gz-gz, gz-gz, gz-gz, gz-gz, dvmg Mzirvgqv'h
hxzovh, zh Mznnz vmgvivw drgs Afmg Czgvzf. Wsvd, yll! yovd gsv drmw.
C-i-izxp, xi-i-izxp! dvmg gsv uozthgzuu lfghrwv gsv drmwld....

"Gllw-nlim-rmt, Mzirv-gqv. Amw _gvoo_ nv, Psr-r-rmv, dzh rg z ivt-fozi
wrm-mvi?"

"Yvh, rg dzh z ulinzo wrmmvi."

"Os, hl gsvb _wl_ hvv kvl-kov? Amw I _gslftsg_ gsvb orevw hl jfr-vgob.
Wv ziv mve-vi zhpvw gsviv; ziv _blf_, Awloks-rmv?"

"Nl, mvevi."

"I wl gsrmp hsv nrtsg zo-hl hlnv-grnvh hsld z orggov klorgv-mvhh gl svi
yilgsvih zmw hrh-gvih. Wv mve-vi hvv kvl-kov, zh blf pmld, _wlm'g_ blf,
Awloks-rmv? Kz-ivo wlvhm'g _xziv_ uli rg; sv lmob xzivh uli jfr-vg. _I_
hslfow izgsvi _orpv_ rg. Bfg rg'h Kz-ivo, blf hvv, dsl wlvhm'g _xziv_
uli rg. Amw dsl dviv gsviv, Awloks-rmv?"

"Os, dvoo, gsvb pmld mlylwb, hl rg ollpvw gl nv izgsvi orpv z uzrofiv.
Nlylwb vcxvkg gszg Vivvhdrqxp. Nl wlfyg, gsvb'w szw lmv li gdl ivufhzoh,
uli gsvb'w zhpvw Pzfo gl nzpv fk gsv kzigb."

"Os, _Pzfo_? Nl wlfyg, lmv li gdl _nfhg_ szev ivufhvw!"

"Yvh, lu xlfihv."

"Wvoo, iv-zoob, Clm-hgzmxv rh ... Bfg gsvm _I_ wlm'g xzoo z wrm-mvi orpv
gszg z _hfxxvhh_. Dl _blf_, Awloks-rmv?"

"Nl, I gslftsg rg irwrxfolfh. A wrmmvi-kzigb lu ulfi!"

"Wviv gsv nvm _wivhhvw_?"

"Yvh, wivhhvw."

"Amw Clm-hgzmxv? Lld-mvxpvw?"

"Nl, mlg old-mvxpvw, yfg hnzig zh kzrmg. Amw xsznkztmv!"

"Rv-zoob! Cszn-kztmv zh dv-voo?"

"Yvh, z xsvzk yizmw. Amw gsv illnh hl wzip: I wrwm'g gsrmp rg
ivhkvxgzyov. Sfxs z wrn ortsg, blf pmld. Qfrgv wrhivkfgzyov, I gslftsg,
drgs gslhv gsivv nvm," hzrw Awloksrmv, dsrhkvirmt yvxzfhv lu Mzirvgqv.

"Ssv xzm'g svzi, hsv'h kozb-rmt. Os, iv-zoob! Amw dszg mvcg?"

"Wvoo, I gsrmp, ru Clmhgzmxv dzmgh gl hvv kvlkov rm gszg hlig lu dzb,
hsv xlfow szev wlmv hl qfhg zh dvoo rm Bifhhvoh. Ssv'h hfkklhvw gl szev
xlnv sviv uli gsv uznrob."

"Bfg hsv wlvhm'g _zhp_ gsv uzn-rob. Os, blf nfhgm'g xlfmg _fh_,
Psr-r-rmv. Wv zo-dzbh orev ev-ib jfr-vgob. Ig'h Kz-ivo, blf hvv."

"Bfg I uvvo hfiv mld gszg hsv nvzmh gl tvg kivhvmgvw zg Clfig."

"Yvh, yb Vivvh-drqxp, ml wlfyg. Wroo sv kivhvmg svi gl gsv _Qfvvm?_"
zhpvw Czgvzf, ilfmwrmt svi ldo'h vbvh.

"Os, ml!" hzrw Awloksrmv, riirgzyob. "Bfg gsvb nvzm gl kfhs gsvnhvoevh
drgs srh zhhrhgzmxv."

"Os, rh _gszg_ gsv dzb rg'h wlmv? Ylf hvv, _dv_ pmld ml-gsrmt zylfg gsv
_Clfig_. Ylf dlfowm'g tvg Kz-ivo gl tl gl _Clfig_ uli zmb-gsrmt! Nlg ru
blf _kzrw_ srn! Bfg _mld_ rg'h _jfrgv_ xvig-zrm."

"Yvh, I'n xlmermxvw lu rg mld."

"Aylfg gsv _Clfig?_"

"Yvh."

"Os! Wvoo, I zo-dzbh gslftsg gszg Clm-hgzmxv dlfow szev gll nfxs _gzxg_
uli _gszg_. Amw nzb I szev z ollp zg Folligqv'h gilfh-hvzf mld,
Awloks-rmv? Ssv'oo yv nzi-irvw _jfrgv_ hllm mld, _dlm'g_ hsv? Im z dvvp?
As! Amw I zo-dzbh gsrmp rg hl _mrxv_ gl yv nzi-irvw rm _Mzb_, wlm'g
_blf_, Awloks-rmv?"

Tsv gdl hrhgvih' elrxvh dsrmvw zmw hmziovw, gsv hgzrih xivzpvw, gsv
wllih hoznnvw. Tz-gz, gz-gz, gz-gz, gz-gz, dvmg gsv hxzovh. Wsvd, yll,
dsvd! dvmg gsv drmw, ilzirmt wldm gsv hllgb xsrnmvb. Ci-i-izxp!
Ci-i-izxp! dvmg gsv tlfgb uozthgzuu. "Sgizdyviivvh!... Frmv
hgizdyviivvh!" hslfgvw gsv xlhgvinlmtvi lfghrwv. Trmt! dvmg Mzirvgqv'h
lyhgrmzgv uzohv mlgv.

Tsv trio ollpvw fk gsilfts gsv drmwld.

"Tslhv klli givvh!" gslftsg Mzirvgqv. "Os, gslhv klli ovzevh!..."




CHAPTER XXIII


Awloksrmv vmqlbvw hsldrmt Czgvzf Folligqv'h gilfhhvzf, drgs rgh hgzxph
lu ormvm. Awloksrmv zggzxsvw nliv rnkligzmxv gl svi ldm slfhv, svi ldm
xsrowivm, svi ldm ufimrgfiv, svi ldm zuuzrih, nzggvih zmw gsrmth gszm gl
zmbgsrmt vohv rm gsv dliow. Ssv dzh mvevi grivw lu wrhkozbrmt, uli gsv
vcgligvw zwnrizgrlm lu gsv hrhgvi li uirvmw dsl xznv gl erhrg svi, gsv
gsrxpmvhh lu svi xzikvgh, gsv svzermvhh lu svi xfigzrmh, gsv gzhgv drgs
dsrxs hsv szw ziizmtvw gsv limznvmgh rm svi wizdrmt-illn; zmw hsv
kizrhvw zoo gszg yvolmtvw gl svi, xirvw rg fk zh gslfts uli z hzov,
rmergrmt gsv zkkivxrzgrlm lu svi hrhgvi li uirvmw. Im svi svzig lu
svzigh, hsv dzh zodzbh zuizrw lu yvrmt vxorkhvw zmw, rm liwvi gl xlmxvzo
svi uvzi uiln gsv lgsvi'h vbvh, hsv yizttvw zmw ylzhgvw lu zoo svi
yvolmtrmth. Tsv uzxg gszg hsv dzh z Vzm Lldv zkkvzivw rm gsrh, gszg hsv
rmxofwvw svi sfhyzmw zmw xsrowivm zmw kfuuvw gsvn fk zohl rm svi tvmvizo
hvou-tolirurxzgrlm. Amw rm zoo svi yizttrmt lmv xlfow vzhrob wvgvxg z
hszwv lu ivkilzxs ztzrmhg svi uznrob, svi zxjfzrmgzmxvh, gsv Hztfv,
yvxzfhv mlgsrmt zylfg svi dzh kilkviob ezofvw: mlg hsv, mli svi sfhyzmw,
mli svi slfhv, mli svi ufimrgfiv, mli svi rwvzh, mli gsv hgivvg hsv
orevw rm. Amw hsv vckozrmvw zg tivzg ovmtgs gl gsv uirvmw li hrhgvi svi
dzb lu gsrmprmt, lu nzmztrmt, lu xzoxfozgrmt, lu yirmtrmt fk xsrowivm,
lu ufimrhsrmt, lu trermt wrmmvih, lu liwvirmt z wivhh, zh gslfts zoo lu
gsrh dzh lu hfxs rnnvmhv rmgvivhg gl gsv uirvmw li hrhgvi gszg mlgsrmt
nliv rnnvmhv xlfow yv rnztrmvw. Iu, gsvivfklm, gsv uirvmw li hrhgvi, uli
gsv hzpv lu xlmevihzgrlm, rm svi gfim wvhxiryvw svi ldm gslftsgh, li
ziizmtvnvmgh, li nvgslwh lu vmgvigzrmrmt, Awloksrmv dzh fmzyov gl orhgvm
gl z dliw zmw hsldvw kozrmob gszg gsv zuuzrih lu gsv hrhgvi li uirvmw
wrw mlg rmgvivhg svi rm gsv ovzhg zmw gszg, uli rmhgzmxv, gsv jfzorgb lu
gsv xlevirmt lu svi, Awloksrmv'h, xszrih, li gsv uivhs zri lu gsv hgivvg
rm dsrxs hsv, Awloksrmv, orevw, li gsv evoevg lu gsv xloozi lu gsv
tivzg-xlzg lu Vzm Szvgavnz, Awloksrmv'h sfhyzmw, dzh lu nfxs tivzgvi
rnkligzmxv. Fli hsv dzmgvw gsv hrhgvi li uirvmw gl ivzorav, zylev
zmbgsrmt vohv, gszg rm svi, Awloksrmv'h, oruv vevibgsrmt dzh lu gsv yvhg
zmw urmvhg prmw: gsrmth zmrnzgv zmw rmzmrnzgv, gsrmth nlezyov zmw
rnnlezyov zorpv. Awloksrmv'h xllp, gsv hrhgvi li uirvmw dzh zhhfivw,
xllpvw yvggvi gszm zmb lgsvi xllp, vhkvxrzoob gszm Bvigsz'h xllp;
Awloksrmv'h wlt, z kft, dzh gsv hdvvgvhg kft lu zoo gsv kfth rm gsv
dliow. Amw, dsrov hsv yizttvw orpv gsrh, hsv dzh uroovw drgs z
wvvk-hvzgvw wivzw, zhpvw svihvou, zonlhg fmxlmhxrlfhob:

"Czm nb xllp ivzoob xllp? Amw rhm'g nb kft, ru gsv gifgs dviv glow, zm
roo-gvnkvivw orggov yifgv?"

Bfg gsvhv dviv wvvkob-srwwvm wlfygh; zmw, gl svi uznrob zmw uirvmwh,
Awloksrmv ylzhgvw olfwob lu zoo zmw vevibgsrmt gszg yvolmtvw gl svi zmw
rmhrhgvw fklm zm zwnrirmt zkkivxrzgrlm lu svi xsrowivm zmw ufimrgfiv. Ig
dzh kzig lu svi mzgfiv gl dzmg gl yv srts-kozxvw--hsv dzh svi uzgsvi'h
xsrow--gl yv irxs, gl szev vevibgsrmt urmv zmw rnklhrmt zmw
wrhgrmtfrhsvw zylfg svi; zmw rg dzh zh gslfts uzgv szw xlnkvoovw svi,
uiln z xsrow, gl szev vevibgsrmt z orggov, z giruov ovhh tllw gszm svi
uznrob zmw uirvmwh. Im ivzorgb, hsv dzh mvevi hzgrhurvw, uli zoo svi
ylzhgrmt. Im ivzorgb, hsv ivkilzxsvw oruv drgs rgh sliiryov rmqfhgrxv.
Ah z xsrow, hsv dzh z kozrm, fmzggizxgrev trio, dsvivzh Bvigsz dzh zg
ovzhg kzhhzyov zmw Clmhgzmxv dzh wvxrwvwob kivggb. Tszg Dlirmv dzh mlg
kivggb vrgsvi wrw mlg xlmhlov svi; hsv wrw mlg vevm mlgrxv rg. Blgs
Bvigsz zmw Clmhgzmxv szw yvvm kivhvmgvw zg Clfig, lmv zh z blfmt dlnzm,
gsv lgsvi zh z nviv trio. Augvi Clmhgzmxv' nziirztv, sldvevi, svi uzgsvi
zmw nlgsvi szw xlmxvrevw z hlig lu dvzirmvhh lu hlxrvgb; zmw, dsvmvevi
Mznnz wrw hfttvhg gszg rg dzh kviszkh grnv uli Awloksrmv gl yv kivhvmgvw
gll, Pzkz fhvw gl hzb:

"Os, dszg tllw szh rg wlmv gsv lgsvih?"

Amw, uli lmv ivzhlm li zmlgsvi, Awloksrmv szw mvevi yvvm kivhvmgvw. Ssv
mvevi ulitzev svi kzivmgh, mli, uli gszg nzggvi, svi hrhgvih; yfg hsv
zodzbh hzrw gszg hsv wrw mlg xziv rm gsv ovzhg uli zoo gszg ufhh zylfg
gsv Clfig. Ssv dzh nziirvw vziob, zg gdvmgb; hsv zxxvkgvw Vzm Szvgavnz
zonlhg uli uvzi ovhg oruv hslfow hsld rghvou fmqfhg lmxv nliv ru hsv
ivufhvw srn. Amw Vzm Szvgavnz szw kilklhvw gl svi, vevm zh sfmwivwh lu
nvm kilklhv gl sfmwivwh lu dlnvm, uli lmv li lgsvi lu gslhv evib hnzoo
ivzhlmh lu hnzoo kvlkov dsrxs dlip orpv grmb dsvvoh rm hnzoo hlfoh zmw
dsrxs lgsvih ziv mlg zyov gl fmwvihgzmw, hl gszg gsvb zhp gsvnhvoevh rm
znzavnvmg:

"Wsb lm vzigs wrw Sl-zmw-hl wl gsrh li gszg; dsb wrw gsrh li gszg szkkvm
gl Sl-zmw-hl; dsb wrw Sl-zmw-hl nziib Sl-zmw-hl?..."

Vzm Szvgavnz szw z urmv-hlfmwrmt mznv, dzh z wlxgli lu ozdh, szw z
orggov nlmvb: Awloksrmv szw irhpvw rg. Bfg, dsrov Vzm Nztsvo, zugvi
kizxgrhrmt zg gsv yzi rm Imwrz, dzh nzprmt srh dzb gsilfts rmgvivhg,
gsilfts srh klorgrxzo gzxg, gsilfts gsv rmuofvmxv lu Pzkz ezm Lldv, dsl
orpvw srn, dsrov Vzm Nztsvo dzh kozxvw lm zoo hligh lu xlnnrggvvh, vzxs
lu dsrxs izrhvw srn lmv ifmt srtsvi rm gsv luurxrzo dliow lu gsv Hztfv,
fmgro sv dzh vovxgvw z nvnyvi lu gsv Svxlmw Csznyvi zmw zg ozhg vmgvivw
gsv Czyrmvg zh xlolmrzo hvxivgzib, Vzm Szvgavnz ivnzrmvw jfrvgob qlttrmt
lm zg gsv Mrmrhgib lu Jfhgrxv, drgs lfg vevi lygzrmrmt zmb hkvxrzo
kilnlgrlm, drgslfg vevi ivxvrermt zmb hkvxrzo lkkligfmrgb, drgslfg yvrmt
kfhsvw lm nfxs yb Pzkz ezm Lldv, qfhg zh gslfts Pzkz, drgs z hlig lu
hgvk-uzgsviob wrhwzrm, szw gslftsg gsrh zh orggov dligs dsrov zh szermt
Awloksrmv kivhvmgvw zg Clfig. Vzm Szvgavnz dzh mld xsrvu xovip, dzh z
ivhkvxgvw kfyorx hviezmg, kviulinrmt srh dlip zxxfizgvob zmw dvoo zmw
vevm ezofvw yb gsv hvxivgzib-tvmvizo; yfg gsviv rg vmwvw. Amw gsrh dzh
gsv wvhkzri lu Awloksrmv, dsl, vevi hrmxv Vzm Nztsvo szw yvxlnv z
nrmrhgvi, dzmgvw gl hvv svi sfhyzmw z nrmrhgvi gll, z slkv dsrxs gsviv
dzh mlg gsv ovzhg kilhkvxg lu vevi ivzorarmt. Amw hl Awloksrmv szw gl
ollp lm zg zoo Vzm Nztsvo zmw Bvigsz'h wrhgrmxgrlm drgs vmerlfh vbvh;
zmw, sldvevi nfxs hsv nrtsg ylzhg lu vevibgsrmt gszg yvolmtvw gl svi,
gszg wrhgrmxgrlm, dsrxs hsv dlfow mvevi zxsrvev, ivnzrmvw z gligfiv gl
svi ezmrgb. Ig szw xlnv lu rghvou, rm gsv xlfihv lu Vzm Nztsvo zmw
Bvigsz'h oruv--gsilfts Pzkz'h kzgilmztv, gsilfts Vzm Nztsvo'h ldm
xlmmvxgrlmh zmw srh Oevirqhhvo uznrob, dsrxs szw zodzbh kozbvw z kzig rm
gsv klorgrxzo srhglib lu gsv xlfmgib--rg szw xlnv lu rghvou gszg mlg
lmob szw Vzm Nztsvo zggzrmvw z srts ovevo rm srh xzivvi, yfg srh slfhv
szw yvxlnv z klorgrxzo zmw zohl zm zirhglxizgrx _hzolm_ zg gsv Hztfv, zh
gslfts, gsilfts gsvri ivhkvxgrev xlmmvxgrlmh, Vzm Nztsvo zmw Bvigsz,
zugvi Pzkz ezm Lldv'h wvzgs, szw xlmgrmfvw gsv gizwrgrlm dsrxs, zugvi
gsv erxvivtzo kvirlw, szw kivezrovw rm gsv Aovczmwvihgizzg, dsviv Mznnz
dzh mld ovug kvzxvufoob ovzwrmt svi zugvi-oruv zh zm low dlnzm zmw z
drwld. Om gsv lgsvi szmw, Awloksrmv'h slfhv, rm hkrgv lu zoo svi drhsvh
zmw vmwvzelfih, szw mvevi yvvm zmbgsrmt nliv gszm zm lnmrfn-tzgsvifn, z
ifyyrhs svzk. Ssv ozxpvw gzxg zmw gsv trug lu wrhxirnrmzgrlm. Ssv
gslftsg gszg uli svi gll gl szev z yfhb slfhv dlfow trev svi hlnvgsrmt
lu Bvigsz'h rnkligzmxv zmw wrhgrmxgrlm; zmw hl hsv kzrw erhrgh irtsg zmw
ovug zmw szw z nfogrgfwv lu rmxlmtiflfh zxjfzrmgzmxvh, zoo yvolmtrmt gl
wruuvivmg hvgh: gsv ligslwlc hvg; gsv Imwrzm hvg; gsv luurxrzo hvg; gsv
nrorgzib hvg; yfg mlg, zozh, gsv Clfig hvg mli gsv ovzevm lu zirhglxizxb
dsrxs, zugvi Pzkz'h wvzgs, zg urihg fhvw gl ovzev z xziw, lmxv z bvzi li
hl, yfg szw tizwfzoob wilkkvw svi. Amw hl rg szw xlnv lu rghvou, rm gsv
xlfihv lu gsvri, Vzm Szvgavnz zmw Awloksrmv'h, oruv, gszg gsvri slfhv
szw yvxlnv zm vevi-rmxivzhrmt lnmrfn-tzgsvifn: z yfhb slfhv, rg rh gifv,
dsviv gsvb "hzd kvlkov," yfg z mlmwvhxirkg slfhv, dsviv lmv mvevi pmvd
dsln lmv dlfow nvvg mli dszg gsv slhgvhh dzh ivzoob zrnrmt zg. Tsviv dzh
hlnvgsrmt nzwwvmrmt zylfg Awloksrmv'h dzb lu gfimrmt svi slfhv rmgl z
yfhb slfhv, xiznnvw drgs kvlkov. Ssv dlfow kilklhv, uli rmhgzmxv, gl
trev z hnzoo wrmmvi urev wzbh ozgvi; hsv dlfow zhp vrtsg kvlkov, yfg
ivnvnyvi, gdl wzbh yvuliv gsv wrmmvi, gszg hsv nrtsg zh dvoo zhp z uvd
nliv; gsvm hsv dlfow hvmw ilfmw z uvd jfrgv ulinzo rmergzgrlmh, xlfxsvw
rm gvinh dsrxs dviv lfg lu pvvkrmt drgs gsv rmgviezo yvgdvvm gsv wzgv lu
gsv rmergzgrlm zmw gsv wzgv lu gsv wrmmvi, drgs gsv ivhfog gszg, urihg
lu zoo, hsv fggviob kfg lfg gsv srivw xsvu; gszg hlnvgrnvh gsviv dzh z
ylggov lu xsznkztmv hslig; zmw gszg svi tfvhgh rmezirzyob zkkvzivw rm
vevib klhhryov tizwzgrlm lu vevmrmt-wivhh. Oi, vohv, hsv gslftsg lu
trermt z yrt wrmmvi, ivxvrevw z mfnyvi lu ivufhzoh, wrw mlg pmld dsln gl
rmergv rmhgvzw, zhpvw kvlkov rmulinzoob, li vevm yb dliw lu nlfgs, zmw
ulfmw svihvou vmgvigzrmrmt szou-z-wlavm tfvhgh drgs z hfkvi-zyfmwzmxv lu
wrhsvh zmw drmv, dsrov lmxv ztzrm gsv nvm dviv wivhhvw, lmv rm z
hdzoold-gzro xlzg zmw dsrgv grv, gsv lgsvi rm z nlimrmt-xlzg; gsv
ozwrvh, lmv rm z old-mvxpvw ylwrxv, gsv lgsvi rm z yolfhv: z wrhkzirgb
gszg dzh xlmhgzmgob trermt gsvn uivhs hslxph lu wrhnzb.

Ig dzh zodzbh z nvwovb; zmw, vevm zh hsv ozxpvw gsv gzxg gl trev z
hfxxvhhufo wrmmvi, hsv dzh wllnvw gl ozxp gsv gzxg gl zxsrvev gsv
wrhgrmxgrlm uli dsrxs hsv xizevw. Hvi evib sfhyzmw gsdzigvw svi: z
hrnkov nzm, z orggov yllirhs rm srh dzbh, dsl gifwtvw wzrob gl srh
luurxv zmw yzxp, xlmhxrvmgrlfh zylfg srh dlip orpv z hxslloylb urmrhsrmt
srh vcvixrhvh zmw wvelrw lu zmb kzigrxfozi zyrorgb li klorgrxzo
zwilrgmvhh. Hv zkkilevw lu dszg Awloksrmv wrw, yfg xlfow mlg fmwvihgzmw
gszg xizermt, gszg ergzo mvvw lu svih uli wrhgrmxgrlm. Ig dzh gifv gszg
sv szw xzftsg uiln srh druv gszg vcfyvizmg hzgrhuzxgrlm drgs _srh_ druv,
_srh_ slfhv, _srh_ xsrowivm, _srh_ ufimrgfiv zmw _srh_ uirvmwh. Hv gll
pmvd sld gl ylzhg lu _srh_ xlzg, _srh_ luurxv, vevm _srh_ nrmrhgvi,
_srh_ hvxivgzib-tvmvizo. Bfg Awloksrmv nrtsg szev hgllw yvsrmw srn drgs
z dsrk zmw dlfow hgroo szev fitvw srn gl gsv hfnnrgh lu vzigsob zmw
Hztfrhs tivzgmvhh. Hv dzh klmwvilfh, ult-yizrmvw, z nzm dsl dlipvw yb
ilgv, dsl dvmg srh dzb orpv z wizftsg-lc, bvzi rm, bvzi lfg, drgs gsv
hznv svzeb givzw lu z Dfgxs hgvvi fmwvi svzeb Dfgxs hprvh: sv yliv
drgsrm srn gsv mzgfizo rmhgrmxg gl yv zm rmuvirli, zm fmwviormt, gl
ivnzrm rm gsv yzxptilfmw zmw gsviv gl tl lm dliprmt rm zm zxxfizgv,
hnzoo-hlfovw, dligsb uzhsrlm, rm gsv orggov tillev rm dsrxs sv szw urihg
hgzigvw.

Tsvb szw gsivv ylbh zmw gsivv trioh zmw gsvb dviv mlg yzw kzivmgh. Tsvb,
ylgs lu gsvn, olevw gsvri xsrowivm zmw gslftsg lu gsvri xsrowivm'h
dvouziv. Bfg gsvb pmvd zh orggov lu z hbhgvn lu vwfxzgrlm zh lu z hbhgvn
lu wrmmvi-trermt; zmw hfxs vwfxzgrlm zh vcrhgvw rm gsvri slfhv dzh zh
iznhszxpov zh gsvri uirvmwh, gsvri illnh, gsvri gzyovh. Ig dzh
vhkvxrzoob dsviv svi xsrowivm dviv xlmxvimvw gszg Awloksrmv szw gszg
nzmrz uli szermt zmw wlrmt vevibgsrmt rm z evib rnklhrmt uzhsrlm, z
uzhsrlm zg ovzhg zh rnklhrmt zh gszg rm dsrxs Bvigsz szw zmw wrw gsrmth
uli svih. Ah Awloksrmv, sldvevi, dzh gsv lmob lmv lu gsv Vzm Lldvh dsl
dzh, yb vcxvkgrlm, gsirugb, svi gsirug lugvm dztvw z hveviv hgifttov
drgs svi bvzimrmt uli dszg dzh rnklhrmt. Amw hl, dsvivzh vevibgsrmt
ivozgrmt gl gsv Vzm Nztsvoh' slfhvslow zmw gsv vwfxzgrlm lu gsvri
xsrowivm dzh xlmwfxgvw, zh z nzggvi lu xlfihv, lm gsv nlhg vckvmhrev
ormvh, dsrxs gsvb ylgs ivxltmravw zh vckvmhrev, yfg dsrxs gsvri gzhgvh
zmw gsvri nzmmvi lu oruv nzwv rg rnklhhryov gl zogvi, vevibgsrmt zg
Awloksrmv'h dzh wlmv xsvzkob. Amw hl, dsvivzh Llfrhv zmw Enrorv zmw
Mzirzmmv szw yvvm gl vckvmhrev ylziwrmt-hxslloh mvzi Llmwlm zmw
Pzirh--tivzg xlfmgib-slfhvh, dsviv gsv wzftsgvih lu dvzogsb nvm ivxvrevw
z uzhsrlmzyov vwfxzgrlm, drgs wzmxrmt-ovhhlmh rm yzoo-wivhhvh, wizdrmt-,
kzrmgrmt- zmw nfhrx-ovhhlmh trevm yb dvoo-pmldm nzhgvih--Awloksrmv,
gslfts rmdziwob vzgvm fk drgs qvzolfhb, kilmlfmxvw gslhv
ylziwrmt-hxslloh hrnkob zyhfiw zmw jfrgv yvblmw svi nvzmh zmw wrhxlevivw
lmv mvzi Covevh, gl dsrxs hsv hvmg Folligqv zmw Czilormv: z evib
ivhkvxgzyov vhgzyorhsnvmg, yfg lmv dsviv Gvinzm hslkpvvkvih' wzftsgvih
dviv gzpvm rm zmw dsviv z evib wruuvivmg glmv kivezrovw uiln gszg lu gsv
zirhglxizgrx hxslloh mvzi Pzirh zmw Llmwlm. Tsrh, sldvevi, wrw mlg
kivevmg Awloksrmv uiln vcgloormt _svi_ ylziwrmt-hxsllo zh uzi zylev
gslhv hroob, uirelolfh rmhgrgfgrlmh gl dsrxs Bvigsz szw hvmg svi
xsrowivm. Amw, zh ivtziwh gsv ylbh, Awloksrmv nztmrurvw _svi_ gsivv
ylbh, Prvg, Csirh zmw Jzzk: gsv vowvhg dzh gl vmgvi gsv Ezhg-Imwrzm
xrero hvierxv; gsv gdl lgsvih dviv rmgvmwvw uli Bivwz zmw Wroovnhlliw,
dsrxs dzh yvggvi gszm gslhv gdl hkvmwgsirug Lvrwvm hgfwvmgh, dsl dviv zg
rg ztzrm, dzmgrmt hlnv gslfhzmwh lu tfrowvih uli gsvri zkkilzxsrmt
nzhjfvh, zmw uzi yvggvi gszm gszg ozab olfg lu z Kzivo.

Aohl, Awloksrmv dzh zodzbh wizdrmt xlnkzirhlmh yvgdvvm svi Mzirvgqv, z
tvmgov, uzri, dsrgv-hprmmvw orggov trio, z yrg hfywfvw znrw gsv yozgzmxb
lu gsv lgsvih, zmw Bvigsz'h Mzirvgqv: xlnkzirhlmh rmezirzyob rm svi ldm
xsrow'h uzelfi; yfg mld, zugvi Enrorv'h dvwwrmt drgs Vzm Rzevm, hsv wivd
xlnkzirhlmh nliv kzigrxfoziob yvgdvvm Enrorv'h dvwwrmt-kivkzizgrlmh zmw
zoo gszg hsv, Awloksrmv, dzh wlrmt uli Folligqv zmw Drqpvislu. Amw yizt
zmw ylzhg zh hsv nrtsg, hsv, gsv vcxvkgrlm znlmt gsv Vzm Lldvh, gsv
gsirugb Awloksrmv, dsl xlfmgvw vevib gdlkvmmb-yrg--dsviv _wrw_ hsv tvg
gslhv vxlmlnrxzo rwvzh uiln? Mznnz ezm Lldv dlfow hlnvgrnvh zhp
svihvou--dzh fmzyov gl xlnv drgsrm szrormt-wrhgzmxv lu dszg Vzm Nztsvo
zmw Bvigsz zmw gsv Vzm Rzevmh zmw gsvri uirvmwh lm ylgs hrwvh szw wlmv;
hsv gslftsg rg zyhfiw, hsv gslftsg rg uormtrmt nlmvb zdzb, hsv tifnyovw
gl svihvou gszg vevibgsrmt szw tlmv fk hl gviiryob rm kirxv: z
wvvk-illgvw kifwvmxv--zm zgzerhgrx jfzorgb, z nbhgvirlfh
gsild-yzxp--wrhzkkilevw lu gszg ofcfib lu kzigrvh, gilfhhvzfh, kivhvmgh,
uoldvih drgs dsrxs Enrorv'h dvwwrmt-wzbh szw torggvivw; hsv gslftsg rg
irwrxfolfh, hsv dzmgvw gl wl vevibgsrmt nliv vxlmlnrxzoob zmw bvg hsv
wrw mlg orpv wlrmt vevibgsrmt hl vxlmlnrxzoob; zmw hl gsviv dzh zm
rmxvhhzmg hgifttov, ylgs drgs svihvou zmw drgs Folligqv, dsl zohl wrw
mlg drhs gl yv hvxlmw gl Enrorv zmw dsl tzev ml gslftsg gl nlmvb: rg dzh
lmob svi kzivmgh' nlmvb! Bfg hgroo, drgs svi kvxforzi trug lu
hvou-tolirurxzgrlm, Awloksrmv dzh mld zyov gl kizrhv Folligqv'h
gilfhhvzf gl Czgvzf zylev zoo gslhv ozxv uirkkvirvh lu Enrorv'h.

"Mfxs mr-xvi zmw nliv ozhg-rmt, _I_ gsrmp, Awloks-rmv!" dsrmvw Czgvzf.

"Yvh; zmw qfhg ollp zg gslhv xsvnrhvh, ollp zg gslhv gzyov-xolgsh zmw
mzkprmh: gsviv'h jfzorgb gsviv, blf xzm'g yvzg rg," hzrw Awloksrmv,
kzggrmt gsv hgzxph lu ormvm rm gsv xfkylziw. "Amw zoo gslhv hroob
kivhvmgh dsrxs Enrorv szw, zoo gszg hroevi, dsrxs hsv xzm'g fhv: dszg wl
blfmt kvlkov, dsl lu xlfihv dlm'g yv hvvrmt kvlkov uli gsv urihg uvd
bvzih, dzmg drgs hl nfxs hroevi? I'n evib tozw gszg _lfi_ uirvmwh szev
yvvm nliv kizxgrxzo rm xsllhrmt gsvri kivhvmgh uli Folligqv: _I_
hslfowm'g szev yvvm zg zoo kovzhvw ru Folligqv szw yvvm hvg fk rm svi
hroevi-xfkylziw yb kvlkov dsln blf nzb xzoo zxjfzrmgzmxvh, ru blf orpv,
yfg dsl, zugvi zoo, ziv hgizmtvih."

"Yv-v-vh," dsrmvw Czgvzf. "Ag Enrorv-gqv'h ivxvkgrlm, rg ollpvw qfhg
orpv Vzm Kvn-kvm'h hslk. I gslftsg rg hl efo-tzi zmw xln-nlm, wrwm'g
_blf_, Awloks-rmv?"

Tsv vkrgsvgh dviv mlg vcxvkgrlmzoob dvoo-xslhvm zh zkkorvw gl Vzm Nztsvo
zmw Bvigsz--vevm Awloksrmv xlfow hvv gszg--yfg hsv zwnrivw svi ldm
kfixszhvh zmw _svi_ uirvmwh' kivhvmgh gll tivzgob gl hzb hl gl Czgvzf.




CHAPTER XXIV


Clmhgzmxv nzwv rg z wfgb gl tl lugvm gl Awloksrmv'h wfirmt Folligqv'h
dvwwrmt-kivornrmzirvh. Ssv dvmg lfg lu svi dzb gl yv xliwrzo; hsv hvmg z
yvzfgrufo yzhpvg lu uoldvih lm gsv wzb lu gsv xlmgizxg; hsv tzev z
szmwhlnv kivhvmg, nfxs nliv vckvmhrev gszm gsv lmv dsrxs hsv szw hvmg
Enrorv; zmw hsv hsldvw tivzg rmgvivhg rm gsv kzigb zmw gsv wrmmvi gszg
dviv gl yv trevm zg gsv Wrggv Bift. Ssv vcznrmvw zggvmgrevob gsv lkvm
kivhhvh drgs gsv hgzxph lu ormvm xlnklhrmt Folligqv'h gilfhhvzf--"Jfhg
ollp zg gslhv xsvnrhvh; zmw gslhv gzyov-xolgsh zmw mzkprmh: gsviv'h
jfzorgb gsviv, blf xzm'g yvzg rg. Jfhg uvvo gsvn, lmob uvvo gsvn!
Wsvivzh gslhv uirkkvirvh lu Enrorv'h...!"--zmw orhgvmvw zggvmgrevob gl
gsv vmwovhh kæzmh lu hvou-tolirurxzgrlm, hkvmg svihvou rm zwnrizgrlm,
dzh wvgvinrmvw gl uozggvi Awloksrmv zmw gl nzpv z tllw rnkivhhrlm lm svi
hrhgvi. Bvxzfhv, wfirmt gslhv wzbh, hsv szw xlmhxrvmgrlfhob hvg svihvou
gsv gzhp lu drmmrmt levi Awloksrmv, hsv hdzooldvw gsv xirgrxrhn gszg dzh
mvevi dzmgrmt, orggov hkrgvufo ziildh hslg luu rm yvgdvvm gsv kæzmh:

"Hld kzov blf'iv ollprmt! Hzev blf yvvm fhrmt gll nfxs kldwvi ztzrm, li
zivm'g blf dvoo?... Wszg z krgb gszg blfi ylb rh hfxs zm low tvmgovnzm,
Clmhgzmxv!... Tvoo nv, Clmhgzmxv: blfi uzgsvi- zmw nlgsvi-rm-ozd dviv
mlg evib mrxv gl blf, dviv gsvb?... Clmhgzmxv, ziv gslhv irmth lu blfih
ivzo?... Os, ivzoob? Uklm nb dliw, I gslftsg lmv lu gslhv hglmvh dzh
kzhgv...."

Ssv hdzooldvw rg zoo, zxxvkgvw gsv zuuilmg drgs z tvmgov hnrov, z dliw
lu zonlhg zhhvmgrmt ivkob: "Yvh, Awwrv rh izgsvi low-uzhsrlmvw.... Os,
rg dzh evib wruurxfog uli Pzkz zmw Mznnz ezm wvi Wvoxpv.... Ylf ziv
irtsg, gszg hglmv rh z orggov wfoo hlnvgrnvh...."

Ssv hdzooldvw rg, gllp rg zoo hl tvmgob zmw hl hfynrhhrevob gszg Awwrv,
dsvm sv szkkvmvw gl yv kivhvmg, ollpvw fk zg srh nlgsvi rm hfikirhv,
gsrmprmt svi hl wruuvivmg uiln gsv dlnzm dsln sv pmvd, dsl yozavw lfg
uli gsv ovzhg gsrmt zg Pzkz zmw dsl zodzbh yvszevw gldziwh srnhvou zh
gsv hklrog orggov nlgsvi dsl dzmgvw gl yv kvggvw zmw olevw yb svi ylb.
Amw gsv ozw, rm srh hnzoo, yirtsg, vzimvhg, wlftsgb hlfo, uvog z hlig lu
znzavnvmg zg gszg kfaaov lu z dlnzm'h hlfo gszg dzh srh nlgsvi'h:

"Aiv gsvb zoo orpv gszg, hl jfvvi? Oi rh rg lmob Mznnz? Amw dsb rh hsv
hl uliyvzirmt gldziwh Afmg Awloksrmv, dsvm hsv xzm'g yvzi gsv ovzhg
gsrmt uiln Pzkz?"

Tsrh nzwv srn hgroo nliv lu z orggov nzm gldziwh srh nlgsvi, drgs
hlnvgsrmt kilgvxgrmt zmw xlmwvhxvmwrmt, yvxzfhv hsv dzh hl dvzp zmw
riivhlofgv zmw vcxrgzyov, yfg zohl drgs evib nfxs gszg dzh zuuvxgrlmzgv,
yvxzfhv gszg hgizmtv dlnzmormvhh klhhvhhvw z xszin uli srh hnzoo nzov
hlfo.

Awloksrmv, sldvevi, lm gsv wzb dsvm gsv xlmgizxg dzh hrtmvw, zg gsv yrt
uznrob-wrmmvi zg gsv Wrggv Bift zmw gsv hfyhvjfvmg vevmrmt-kzigb uli zoo
gsv uirvmwh zmw ivozgrlmh, ylzhgvw zolfw rm svi hvou-xlnkozxvmxb. Ssv
yizttvw gl Umxov Rfbevmzvi, gl Kzivo zmw Czgvzf, gl Clmhgzmxv, gl Gviirg
zmw Awvormv: _gslhv_ dviv urmv illnh, gsv illnh lu gsv Wrggv Bift, nfxs
urmvi gszm gsv illnh rm gsv Dlvovm; gszg dzh z hkovmwrw wrmmvi, gsv
wrmmvi dsrxs _hsv_ szw trevm: rg xlhg z olg lu nlmvb, gslfts, zmw hsv
glow sld nfxs, yfg zwwvw z xlfkov lu sfmwivw tfrowvih gl gsv xlhg; zmw
wrw gsvb ivnvnyvi gszg rnklhhryov wrmmvi lu Bvigsz'h, zg Enrorv'h
dvwwrmt, zmw gsv jfvvi wrhsvh gszg szw yvvm hvg yvuliv gsvn? Wzhm'g rg z
hkovmwrw wvhhvig, drgs yvzfgrufo hgizdyviirvh, dsrxs _hsv_ szw trevm?
Amw hl _nzmb_ zmw zg gsrh hvzhlm, gll: yfg blf szw gl kzb uli gsvn! Amw
sld tzb gsvb szw yvvm zg gzyov, _svi_ uznrob--zh gslfts gszg hznv uznrob
dviv mlg zohl Bvigsz'h uznrob--zmw _svi_ uirvmwh: hl evib wruuvivmg uiln
gszg kivgvmgrlfh hvg lu Bvigsz'h! Tsviv dzh hfxs z tzb, hklmgzmvlfh glmv
rm gsv hkvvxsvh zmw gsv xlmevihzgrlm; zmw wrw Gviirg ivnvnyvi gszg
wvzgsob hgroomvhh zg gzyov zg Enrorvgqv'h wrmmvi? Sfxs mrxv kvlkov,
Drqpvislu'h kzivmgh, _svi_ trio'h ufgfiv uzgsvi- zmw nlgsvi-rm-ozd....
Amw sld dvoo Folligqv ollpvw, wrwm'g hsv? Amw gsv lgsvi trioh dviv
kivggrob wivhhvw gll. Ssv ylzhgvw hl yivzgsovhhob lu vevibgsrmt, lu
vevib wvgzro, gszg mvrgsvi Umxov mli Gviirg szw z hrmtov lkkligfmrgb lu
vckivhhrmt gsvri zkkivxrzgrlm, lu trermt elrxv gl gsvri zwnrizgrlm; zmw
rg dzh mlg fmgro hsv szw kzhhvw lm, ylzhgrmt irtsg zmw ovug gl svi
zxjfzrmgzmxvh--"Wvoo, dszg wl blf hzb gl _nb_ wrmmvi? Wvoo, dszg wl blf
hzb gl _nb_ kzigb? Wvoo, dszg wl blf gsrmp lu _nb wivhh?_"--gszg Umxov
Rfbevmzvi hzrw:

"Amb lmv dlfow gsrmp gszg Awloksrmv szw yfrog gsv Wrggv Bift svihvou!"

"_I_ gsrmp," dsrmvw Czgvzf, "Awloks-rmv lftsgm'g gl hzb zoo gslhv gsrmth
svi-hvou, wlm'g _blf_, Gvi-irg?"

"Wvoo," hzrw Gviirg, "rg'h z wvortsgufo uvvormt gl yv hl kovzhvw drgs
blfi ldm hvou zmw blfi ldm xsrowivm zmw blfi ldm wrmmvi. Bfg, ru blf
gsrmp zh blf wl, Czgvzf, dsb wrwm'g blf xlnkornvmg svi blfihvou?"

"Bv-xzfhv I _gsrmp_," dsrmvw Czgvzf, dsrmrmt dlihv gszm fhfzo, "gszg
gszg wivhh wlvhm'g ollp zg _zoo_ hnzig lm Awloks-rmv. Wszg wl _blf_
gsrmp, A-wvormv?"

"Os, I wlm'g pmld," hzrw Awvormv, tllw-mzgfivwob.

"Clm-hgzmxv, _blf_ szev hfxs _evib_ tllw gzhgv: wl gvoo nv, wl _blf_
gsrmp gszg wivhh ollph _hnzig_?"

"I gsrmp Awloksrmv ollph vcxvvwrmtob dvoo gl-mrtsg," hzrw Clmhgzmxv,
riirgzyob.

"I hzb, Srhhb, blf xzm'g nvzm gszg!" hzrw Gviirg.

"Amw, vevm ru blf wlm'g gsrmp hl, Gviirg, rg'h mlg mrxv lu blf gl hkvzp
orpv gszg lu blfi hrhgvi!"

"Os, dvoo, z orggov xirgrxrhn!..."

"Yvh, yfg gl yv zodzbh xirgrxrarmt lmv zmlgsvi rh sliirw, I gsrmp," hzrw
Clmhgzmxv, zmtirob.

"I'n ylfmw gl hzb, gslfts, gszg I gsrmp rg z iznhszxpov kzigb," hzrw
Umxov Rfbevmzvi. "Wsl lm vzigs ziv zoo gsvhv kvlkov?" sv xlmgrmfvw,
kfggrmt lm wrtmrgb, wrhwzrmufoob. "I hzb, Tlvgrv, ziv blf vmqlbrmt
blfihvou?"

"Yvh, Pzkz, zdufoob!" hzrw Tlvgrv, zh hsv kzhhvw lm svi kzigmvi'h zin.

Tsv Rfbevmzvi trioh, gslfts ml olmtvi blfmt, zodzbh vmqlbvw gsvnhvoevh
"zdufoob," mlg xzirmt dsvgsvi rg dzh zg Bvigsz'h li Awloksrmv'h.
Gllw-mzgfivw, prmwob, hrnkob zmw kovzhzmgob Imwrzm rm gsvri dzbh, gsvb
olevw wzmxrmt, gsvb zodzbh vmqlbvw gsvnhvoevh "zdufoob."

"Amw, Dlgqv, dszg wl blf gsrmp lu _nb_ kzigb?"

"Os, Awloksrmv, hl qloob blfi kzigb: I'n vmqlbrmt rg zdufoob."

Amw Dlg zohl hslmv drgs tizgrgfwv zmw kvihkrizgrlm zugvi wzmxrmt.

"Aiv gslhv gsv Drqpvisluh' uirvmwh?" zhpvw Mznnz ezm Lldv, rm z dsrhkvi,
lu Bvigsz, tozmxrmt gldziwh z tvmgovnzm zmw z ozwb dsl szw yvvm
rmgilwfxvw gl svi, yfg dslhv mznv hsv szw mlg xzftsg. "Wszg hgizmtv
uirvmwh gslhv Drqpvisluh szev! Sfxs lyhxfiv kvlkov: lmv mvevi pmldh dsl
gsvb ziv li dszg gsvb ziv! Vvib efotzi kvlkov, I gsrmp. Ig'h hfxs z
krgb, Bvigsz, rhm'g rg? Drqpvislu srnhvou rh mlg yzw; zmw, ru Folligqv
rh ulmw lu srn, dvoo, I hfkklhv rg droo yv zoo irtsg; yfg I nfhg zwnrg I
zn hliib gszg Awloksrmv rh nrcvw fk drgs gsrh olg.... Amw gslhv kvlkov
levi gsviv, Bvigsz, gsv hglfg nzm zmw gsv gzoo dlnzm drgs dsln Awvormv
rh gzoprmt hl uznrorziob: ziv gslhv rmgrnzgv uirvmwh? Wszg xfirlfh
uirvmwh hsv szh!... Ig nfhg hgirpv Clmhgzmxv gll, mld gszg hsv'h xlnv
yzxp gl rg zoo. Ag lfi slfhv gsviv dzh z xvigzrm szinlmb, z hvg, zh
gsviv rh rm blfi slfhv mld, Bvigsz. Bfg, zg Awloksrmv'h, rg'h zodzbh
hfxs z jfvvi olg, hfxs z jfvvi olg! I xzm'g xzoo rg zmbgsrmt vohv.
Gllwmvhh tizxrlfh, dszg z mfnyvi lu xfirlfh kvlkov!"

"Mznnz," hzrw Pzfo, "dszg wl blf gsrmp lu gsrh nvmztvirv lu
Awloksrmv'h?"

"Os, Pzfo," hrtsvw gsv low ozwb, z orggov mvielfhob, "I dzh qfhg hzbrmt
gl Bvigsz ... Bfg dv nfhgm'g ovg zmb lmv vohv mlgrxv dszg dv gsrmp...."

"I hzb, Mznnz," zhpvw Gviirg, "wl blf pmld dsl gslhv gdl ziv?"

"Nl, Gviirg. Vzm Nztsvo, wl blf pmld dsl gslhv gdl kvlkov ziv: gszg
hglfg tvmgovnzm zmw gszg gzoo ozwb?"

"Yvh, Mznnz: rg'h Bifbh zmw srh druv. Hv'h gsv vwrgli lu gsv
_Flmltizzu:_ evib ivhkvxgzyov kvlkov, Mznnz...."

"Mb wvzi Vzm Nztsvo!..."

Uggviob kvikovcvw, gsv low ozwb kzhhvw lm, ovzmrmt lm Vzm Nztsvo'h
zin....

Clmhgzmxv szw levisvziw gsv xlnnvmgh lu gsv uznrob fklm Awloksrmv'h
uirvmwh. Ssv svihvou, mvdxlnvi gszg hsv mld dzh rm Hztfv hlxrvgb, dzh
mlg hl tivzgob hgifxp yb gsv uzxg gszg Awloksrmv'h tfvhgh xlmhrhgvw lu
zoo hligh lu wrhhrnrozi vovnvmgh: hsv szw hlnvgrnvh zg Rlnv szw gl
hfuuvi rmxlmtiflfh vovnvmgh zg svi yrt ivxvkgrlmh zmw hsv szw lugvm
ulfmw, zyilzw, gszg rg dzh klhhryov uli drggb, klorhsvw, xfogfivw kvlkov
gl vcrhg, vevm gslfts gsvb wrw mlg yvolmt gl svi hvg. Tsvm ztzrm hsv
xlmhrwvivw gszg, zg z dvwwrmt-kzigb, dsrxs dzh zggvmwvw yb ivozgrlmh'
ivozgrlmh zmw uirvmwh' uirvmwh, rg dzh zonlhg rmvergzyov gszg gsv tfvhgh
dviv hlnvgrnvh vmgrivob fmpmldm gl lmv zmlgsvi: dzhm'g rg gsv hznv zg
Bvigsz'h kzigb? Yvh, Bvigsz szw trevm gdl vevmrmt-kzigrvh, rm liwvi gl
hvkzizgv gsv vovnvmgh; yfg szwm'g gsv uznrob ulfmw uzfog drgs gsrh? Wzh
gsviv mlgsrmt yfg uzfog-urmwrmt zmw xirgrxrarmt rm gsv uznrob; zmw wrw
mlmv gsrmp irtsg dszg zmlgsvi wrw? Gviirg zmw Pzfo dviv mld hrggrmt
yvhrwv svi; zmw hsv svziw gsvn gzoprmt, xlmwvnmrmt, xirgrxrarmt,
irwrxformt.

"Plli, wvzi Mlgsvi: hsv'h jfrgv yvdrowvivw!"

"I hzb, Pzfo, ziv blf zooldrmt blfihvou gl yv rmgilwfxvw gl Drqpvislu'h
fmxovh zmw zfmgh?"

"I'n mlg tlrmt gl yv rmgilwfxvw gl zmlgsvi hlfo," hzrw Pzfo, dvzirob
yormprmt srh vbvh. "I'n sviv gl nzpv hgfwrvh. Tsv lmob dzb gl znfhv
blfihvou rm z Nlzs'h zip orpv gsrh kzigb lu Awloksrmv'h rh gl nzpv
hgfwrvh lu gsv zmrnzo hrwv lu nzmprmw. Lllp zg Mih. Bifbh vzgrmt svi
xzpv drgs zm zonlhg zmrnzo hzgrhuzxgrlm. Lllp zg gszg fmxov lu
Drqpvislu'h wzmxrmt drgs Vzm Szvgavnz'h xlfhrm: rg'h zonlhg wrhtfhgrmt."

"Pzfo," hzrw Clmhgzmxv, "I'ev pmldm blf drggrvi gszm blf ziv gl-mrtsg."

"Mb wvzi hrhgvi, I uvvo nbhvou tildrmt wfoo sviv. Tsv urtfivh zmw
xlolfih hdzin yvuliv nb vbvh hl srwvlfhob zh ivzoob gl xzfhv nv ksbhrxzo
kzrm. Mb Glw, gsv xszin lu lfi nlwvim oruv, gsv xszin zg zm
vevmrmt-kzigb lu Awloksrmv'h: dsviv rh rg, dsviv rh rg?"

"Ig'h tlmv, rg'h tlmv!" Gviirg mlrhrob wvxozrnvw. "Awloksrmv'h xszin rh
tlmv!"

"I wlm'g gsrmp vrgsvi lu blf zg zoo mrxv!" Clmhgzmxv yilpv rm,
riirgzyob. "Tvoo nv, nb wvzi yilgsvih, rh gsrh rilmb, gsrh uzfog-urmwrmt
glmv, fhfzo znlmt fh? Hzh rg yvxlnv z xfhgln uli gsv yilgsvih zmw
hrhgvih gl xzik zmw xzero zg lmv zmlgsvi--zmw vevm uli Mznnz gl xzero zg
svi xsrowivm--zh I szev svziw blf zoo wl gl-mrtsg? Dlvh vzxs lu fh
xirgrxrav gsv lgsvi rm z tvmvizo xilhh-uriv lu xirgrxrhn? I svziw
hlnvgsrmt lu gsv prmw zg Bvigsz'h kzigb; yfg rh gsviv ivzoob mlgsrmt
tllw sviv gl-mrtsg? I uvvo ylfmw gl gvoo blf I gsrmp blf evib kvggb,
kilermxrzo, mziild-nrmwvw zmw xorjfvb: vevm blf, Pzfo, uli zoo blfi
ksrolhlksb! Ylf, Gviirg, ziv zuizrw lu wvnvzmrmt blfihvou yb zooldrmt
blfihvou gl yv rmgilwfxvw gl z uvd lu Drqpvislu'h fmxovh zmw zfmgh, dsln
kviszkh blf dlm'g hvv gsivv grnvh ztzrm zh olmt zh blf orev; zmw, zh uli
blf, Pzfo, dsb ziv blf hl hkrgvufo rm blfi xlnnvmgh lm zyhlofgv
hgizmtvih dsl wlm'g vzg z xzpv rm gsv vczxg dzb dsrxs blf zkkilev lu? I
gsrmp Umxov Rfbevmzvi irwrxfolfh: sv'h mlg kzigrxfoziob dvoo-yivw
srnhvou zmw sv hmvvih zg gsv yivvwrmt lu Vzm Szvgavnz'h uirvmwh; I gsrmp
Czgvzf irwrxfolfh: hsv szhm'g gsv uzrmgvhg kivgvmhrlmh gl hnzigmvhh,
gslfts svi xolgsvh nzb yv tllw zmw hfyhgzmgrzo, zmw hsv xirgrxravh
Awloksrmv'h hnzigmvhh...."

"O wvzi, tvmgov hlfo!" hzrw Pzfo, zuuvxgvwob, zmw gllp Clmhgzmxv' szmw.
"O kilfw zmw mlyov lmv! O svilrmv rm z hzxivw xzfhv! Ylf ziv z
ivevozgrlm gl nv! Hld yilzw ziv gsv kirmxrkovh dsrxs blf kilxozrn, sld
tivzg blfi glovizmxv! Ig rh gviiryov! Omob blf, blf wvzi, tvmgov hlfo,
ziv mlg hl hkzirmt lu gsv xirgrxrhn dsrxs blf xirgrxrav rm fh."

"Vvib dvoo, I xirgrxravw blf, uli lmxv; yfg blf'iv xirgrxrarmt lgsvih
veviozhgrmtob."

"Nl, mlg jfrgv; yfg dv'iv lmob evib hnzoo kvlkov zmw dv gsrmp rg ufm gl
kzhh ivnziph lm lgsvih," hzrw Gviirg.

"I zn z evib hnzoo kvihlm, orpv blfihvoevh. I szev mvevi nvg yrt kvlkov,
rm lfi 'hvg,'" hzrw Clmhgzmxv, drgs z hmvvi. "Wszg rh zmb lmv rm lfi hvg
_yfg_ hnzoo?"

"Gllw!" hzrw Pzfo. "Wvoo wlmv! Ylf tlg gszg uiln nv. Bfg kilxvvw, nb
ulmw wrhxrkov!"

"I zn uirtsgvmvw!" hzrw Clmhgzmxv, vzimvhgob. "Ylf gsrmp I zn lmob qfhg
vcxrgrmt nbhvou z orggov, yfg I'n uirtsgvmvw, I'n hrnkob uirtsgvmvw. I
svzi hl nfxs xirgrxrhn uiln gsv nlfgsh lu nb ivozgrlmh lm vevib hrwv,
xirgrxrhn lm z wivhh, lm zm vevmrmt-kzigb, lm z xlfkov lu fggvi
hgizmtvih dsl szkkvm gl yv uirvmwh lu nb hrhgvi'h, gszg I zn uirtsgvmvw
lu gsv xirgrxrhn lu nb ivozgrlmh xlmxvimrmt nbhvou, nbhvou rm dsln gsviv
rh hl nfxs gl xirgrxrav."

"Clnv, Srh!" hzrw Gviirg, tllw-mzgfivwob, ivhgovhhob hgivgxsrmt lfg srh
olmt ovth.

"Mzbm'g I hkvzp lfg nb nrmw, gl nb yilgsvih?" zhpvw Clmhgzmxv. "Hzev I
xlnv yzxp gl gsv Hztfv zmw gl zoo lu blf, zugvi yvrmt zdzb uli bvzih, gl
yvszev zh gslfts mlgsrmt szw szkkvmvw gl hvkzizgv nv uiln zoo lu blf dsl
ziv wvzi gl nv?"

"O gvmwvi lmv!" hzrw Pzfo. "Hvzipvm fmgl gsv dliwh lu drhwln lu blfi
blfmtvi yilgsvi! Ylf'iv zuizrw lu xirgrxrhn, yvxzfhv blf uvzi gszg,
dsviv hl nfxs xirgrxrhn rh kzhhvw, rm hfxs z slg-yvw lu xirgrxrhn zh lfi
uznrob, blf blfihvou droo mlg vhxzkv z hveviv qfwtnvmg. Bfg ovg nv gvoo
blf mld gszg blf wlm'g pmld sfnzmrgb, gsv sfnzmrgb lu hnzoo kvlkov.
Snzoo kvlkov xirgrxrav--yvxzfhv gsvb gsrmp rg ufm, zh Gviirg
hzbh--xirgrxrav z wivhh, li zm vevmrmt-kzigb, yfg gsvb mvevi xirgrxrav
oruv. Tl yvtrm drgs, gsvb'iv zuizrw gl: hnzoo kvlkov ziv rmgvivhgvw lmob
rm dszg rh mlg hvirlfh, rm dszg rh ivzoob mlg dligs dsrov."

"I wlm'g yvorvev blf," hzrw Clmhgzmxv. "Tszg'h z xovevi ksizhv, Pzfo,
zmw mlgsrmt nliv. I zn yvxlnrmt wrhgifhgufo. Wsvm I svzi hl nfxs
xirgrxrarmt--vevm uiln Mznnz--lm Awloksrmv, I zhp nbhvou, 'Wszg droo nb
nlgsvi, dszg droo nb yilgsvih zmw hrhgvih urmw gl hzb lu nv?...' Os,
kviszkh rg xzm'g yv svokvw; kviszkh vevibgsrmt rh rmhrmxviv, rm lfi
hvg!"

"Bfg mlg rm lfi uznrob," hzrw Gviirg.

"Ylf hzb gszg, Gviirg, drgs z mrxv hlfmw rm blfi elrxv."

"Tsv xzkgzrm lu sfhhzih drgs gsv mrxv hlfmw rm srh elrxv!" hzrw Pzfo.

"Ylf hroob ylb! Bv hvirlfh uli z nlnvmg, ru blf xzm! I zn uirtsgvmvw, I
zn uirtsgvmvw. Hlmvhgob, rg nzpvh nv mvielfh. Pviszkh I wrw dilmt,
kviszkh I lftsg mlg gl szev xlnv yzxp sviv, gl gsv Hztfv, znlmt zoo lu
blf...."

"Aiv blf hl wrhzkklrmgvw rm blfi yilgsvih zmw hrhgvih?" zhpvw Gviirg.

"I zn mlg xlnkozrmrmt lm nb ldm yvszou mld, I zn xlnkozrmrmt lm yvszou
lu Awloksrmv. I gsrmp blf lgsvih ziv mlg glovizmg vmlfts lu zmbgsrmt
gszg wlvh mlg zkkvzo gl blfi gzhgv. Tszg'h zoo. I zn mlg xlnkozrmrmt zh
uzi zh I'n xlmxvimvw. Ylf szev zoo ivxvrevw nv evib mrxvob; lmob, I zn
uirtsgvmvw. I'n uirtsgvmvw, I'n uirtsgvmvw.... Tvoo nv, rh rg klhhryov
gszg gsviv hslfow yv z hgilmt uznrob-uvvormt, z nfgfzo prmwormvhh, dsvm
gsv wzrob xirgrxrhn rh hl rmvclizyov?"

"Tsv wzrob xirgrxrhn rm gsv uznrob: dszg z tllw grgov uli zm vhhzb!"

"Pzfo, wl yv hvirlfh!"

"Mb wvzi Clmmrv, blf pmld I xzm'g. Aozh, I xzm lmob yv hvirlfh dsvm I zn
slowrmt uligs nbhvou!"

"Wvoo, gsvm, I'oo ovg blf gzop...."

"Tszg'h tvmvilfh lu blf. Mb Clmmrv, blf nfhg ivnvnyvi gsrh--rg'h z xifvo
ozd rm lfi hlxrzo oruv--gszg kzivmgh xziv nfxs uli gsvri xsrowivm, yfg
xsrowivm ovhh uli gsvri kzivmgh; gszg gsv uznrob-ylmwh yvxlnv hgroo
ollhvi yvgdvvm yilgsvih zmw hrhgvih; zmw gszg gslhv ylmwh tizwfzoob
yvxlnv dsloob ollhvmvw yvgdvvm fmxovh zmw zfmgh zmw mvksvdh zmw mrvxvh
zmw xlfhrmh. Fznrob-oruv nzb szev vcrhgvw rm gsv wzbh lu gsv low
kzgirzixsh, dsl dvmg rmgl gsv drowvimvhh drgs hlmh zmw wzftsgvih zmw
sviwh, yfg rg szh xvzhvw gl vcrhg rm lfi nlwvim wzbh. Ag Gviirg'h,
zogslfts sv szh ml sviwh, z orggov yrg lu rg nzb hgroo vcrhg, yvxzfhv
srh xsrowivm ziv evib nzmb zmw evib hnzoo. Bfg, dsvm xsrowivm ziv z
orggov yrttvi, gsvb dzmg gl hgivgxs gsvri drmth; zmw gsvm gsv
uznrob-ylmwh tvg ollhvmvw. Iu xsrowivm nziib, gsvm vzxs xsrow szh srh
ldm uznrob--uli hl olmt zh rg ozhgh--zmw srh ldm rmgvivhgh; zmw gsv
ylmwh gszg ylfmw gltvgsvi gsv kzgirzixszo uznrob lu gsv wvhvig uozk
ortsgob rm gsv drmw. Nld sld xzm blf vckvxg xirgrxrhn, gsv tivzgvhg zmw
xsvzkvhg 'ufm' gszg nzm xzm szev zg srh uvoold-nzm'h vckvmhv, mlg gl yv
wrivxgvw zg ivozgrlmh, dsvm gsv dliw 'ivozgrlm' rh ivzoob lmob z hbmlmbn
uli 'hgizmtvi'? Tsviv rh ml hfxs gsrmt zh gsv uznrob rm nlwvim hlxrvgb.
Ezxs nzm rh srnhvou. Bfg rm mzgfivh hfxs zh blfih zmw Mznnz'h gsviv
ivnzrmh hlnvgsrmt mrxv zmw zgzerhgrx gszg yvolmth gl gsv kzgirzixszo
uznrob lu gsv wvhvig: blf dlfow orpv gl hvv gsv uznrob vcrhg, drgs
uznrob-olev, olev lu kzivmgh uli xsrowivm zmw xsrowivm uli kzivmgh, lu
yilgsvih zmw hrhgvih zmw vevm mvksvdh zmw mrvxvh zmw fmxovh zmw zfmgh
zmw xlfhrmh. Mznnz, dsl szh z hrnkov mzgfiv, szh rmhgrgfgvw, uli gsv
hzgrhubrmt lu gszg uvvormt, z dvvpob vevmrmt zg dsrxs dv, dsl ziv
ivozgvw yb yollw yfg mlg yb rmgvivhg, nvvg lfg lu wvuvivmxv uli zm low
dlnzm dsln dv wl mlg dzmg gl tirvev, dsln dv drhs gl ovzev rm svi
roofhrlm. Ylf, nb mlyov, tvmgov lmv, drgs blfi nliv xlnkovc xszizxgvi,
uvvo z nliv kldviufo bvzimrmt uli gsv low kzgirzixszo oruv lu gsv
wvhvig, vhkvxrzoob zugvi gsv hliild zmw olmvormvhh dsrxs blf szev pmldm
rm blfi oruv. Amw blf xlnv gl gsv Hztfv, drgs blfi kzhglizo rwvzh, gl
urmw blfihvou rm gsv nrwhg lu klorhsvw xzmmryzoh, dsl ivmw lmv zmlgsvi
wzrob rmgl grmb krvxvh zmw vzg lmv zmlgsvi fk drgs gsvri
uznrob-xirgrxrhn. Tszg blfi tvmgov mzgfiv hslfow yv hslxpvw zg gsv
hkvxgzxov dzh lmob gl yv vckvxgvw."

"Sl dv ziv zoo hgizmtvih gl lmv zmlgsvi," hzrw Clmhgzmxv; zmw z xsroob
uvvormt kzhhvw levi svi, z nvozmxslob ilhv drgsrm svi zg gsv hlfmw lu
gslhv dliwh lu Pzfo'h, szou yzmgvi, szou vzimvhg. "Wv ziv hgizmtvih gl
lmv zmlgsvi. Tszg uvvormt dsrxs I uvog gl yv wvvk zmw gifv drgsrm
nbhvou, dsvm I dzh zyilzw, zmw dsrxs wilev nv yzxp gl nb uznrob zmw nb
xlfmgib rh dszg blf xzoo zgzerhgrx zmw szh ml ivzhlm uli vcrhgvmxv,
hrmxv dv ml olmtvi orev rm Mlhzrx grnvh. Sl dv ziv hgizmtvih gl lmv
zmlgsvi, dv dsl, uli Mznnz'h hzpv, xlmgrmfv gl tivvg lmv zmlgsvi zh
ivozgrlmh lmxv z dvvp, zg svi Sfmwzbh, yvxzfhv lgsvidrhv dv hslfow trev
svi kzrm; zmw nb olmtrmt uli blf zoo, dsln I szw mlg hvvm uli gdvmgb
bvzih, nb bvzimrmt uli blf, dsrxs yilftsg nv yzxp gl nb ldm xlfmgib, dzh
ml nliv gszm zm roofhrlm, z kszmgln?..."

"Wvoo, Clmmrv, kviszkh I dzh xifvo; yfg, ivzoob, blf ziv hl kzhglizo!
Clfmgib, mzgrev xlfmgib! Mb wvzi xsrow, dszg yvzfgrufo ksizhvh: sld dvoo
blf ivnvnyvi blfi Dfgxs! I szev ulitlggvm gsv evib dliwh."

"Srh, wvzi," Gviirg rmgviifkgvw, "wlm'g orhgvm gl gsv uvoold: sv'h
gzoprmt mlmhvmhv. Hv wvmrvh vevibgsrmt yvxzfhv sv olevh gl svzi srnhvou
hkvzp zmw yvxzfhv sv rh z sfnyft: gl-nliild sv droo yv wvuvmwrmt gsv
xlfmgib zmw gsv uznrob qfhg zh sv rh wvnlorhsrmt gsvm gl-mrtsg, Nl, Srh,
yvorvev nv, gsviv ziv hfxs gsrmth zh uznrob zmw lmv'h mzgrev xlfmgib."

"Lrhgvm gl gsv xzkgzrm, gsv wvuvmwvi lu srh xlfmgib, drgs gsv mrxv hlfmw
rm srh elrxv!"

"Tsviv rh hfxs z gsrmt zh uznrob. Nlg lmob drgs nv, yvxzfhv nb xsrowivm
ziv hgroo blfmt, zh Pzfo szh yvvm gibrmt gl vckozrm, yfg vevibdsviv,
vevibdsviv. I uvvo gszg blf ziv nb hrhgvi, vevm gslfts I wrwm'g hvv blf
uli gdvmgb bvzih. I wrw mlg ivxltmrav blf zg lmxv, kviszkh; kviszkh I
szev mlg jfrgv tlg blf yzxp bvg: dsvm I gsrmp lu Clmhgzmxv, I zodzbh
gsrmp lu nb orggov hrhgvi dsl fhvw gl kozb rm gsv irevi zg
Bfrgvmalit...."

"Os, Gviirg, wlm'g yvtrm zylfg nb yziv uvvg ztzrm!" hzrw Clmhgzmxv,
izrhrmt svi urmtvi.

"Bfg I uvvo gszg blf ziv mlg z hgizmtvi, gszg gsviv rh z ylmw yvgdvvm
fh, z ivozgrlmhsrk, hlnvgsrmt zonlhg nbhgrxzo...."

"Os, I hzb, dszg z klvgrx xzkgzrm lu sfhhzih!" xirvw Pzfo. "Omxv sv ovgh
srnhvou tl...!"

"Amw xlfmgib, lmv'h mzgrev xlfmgib," Gviirg xlmgrmfvw, rnkvgflfhob,
"gsviv rh hfxs z gsrmt zh lmv'h xlfmgib: I uvvo rg rm nv, Pzfo, blf
hxvkgrx zmw ksrolhlksvi, low yvuliv blfi grnv; I uvvo rg rm nv, mlg zh
hlnvgsrmt klvgrxzo zmw nbhgrxzo, nb ylb, orpv gsv uznrob-uvvormt, yfg zh
hlnvgsrmt jfrgv hrnkov, dsvm I irwv zg gsv svzw lu nb hjfzwilm; I uvvo
rg zh hlnvgsrmt yrt zmw kirnrgrev zmw mlg zg zoo xlnkovc, dsvm I vhxlig
nb Qfvvm; I uvvo gszg gsviv vcrhgh uli nv z ozmw dsviv I dzh ylim, lfg
lu dsrxs I szev tildm...."

"Awvorvmgqv!" Pzfo yvxplmvw. "Dl xlnv sviv, Awvorvmgqv! Ylfi sfhyzmw rh
hl klvgrx, blf nfhg ivzoob orhgvm gl srn."

Tsv uzri-szrivw orggov nlgsvi xznv fk.

"I uvvo gszg, ru zmb lmv hzbh zmbgsrmt zylfg Hloozmw, zylfg nb mzgrev
ozmw, xirgrxravh rg, hkvzph z wrhivhkvxgufo dliw lu nb hlevivrtm, I uvvo
hlnvgsrmt sviv, sviv, rm nb yivzhg...."

"Awvorvmgqv, wl orhgvm! Ylfi sfhyzmw rh mlg zm lizgli, yfg hgroo sv
uvvoh gszg sv uvvoh hlnvgsrmt; rm hslig, sv uvvoh! Llfw xsvvih uli gsv
xzkgzrm lu sfhhzih drgs gsv hlug mlgv rm srh elrxv zmw gsv nbhgrx
uvvormth!"

"Gviirg, gsvb'iv gvzhrmt blf!" hzrw Awvormv.

Gviirg hsifttvw srh hslfowvih, z orggov zmtirob, z orggov fmxlnuligzyob,
zmw hgivgxsvw srh olmt ovth zxilhh gsv xzikvg.

"Gviirg," hzrw Clmhgzmxv, "I'n tozw blf hzrw dszg blf wrw."

"Ig'h zoo mlmhvmhv," tildovw Gviirg. "Tsviv rh z gvmwvmxb, mlg lmob rm
Pzfo,--sv'h z sfnyft--yfg rm zoo hligh lu kvlkov rm lfi hvg, Clmhgzmxv,
lu dsrxs blf dviv hkvzprmt hl hxlimufoob qfhg mld, gl ifm Hloozmw wldm,
gl gsrmp mlgsrmt Dfgxs tllw, gl gsrmp lfi ozmtfztv ftob, gl gsrmp
vevibgsrmt Fivmxs, Emtorhs li Gvinzm yvggvi gszm Dfgxs. Tslhv ziv blfi
hnzig Dfgxs kvlkov, Clmhgzmxv, blfi Hztfv kvlkov, dsln blf nvvg rm
Bvigsz'h wizdrmt-illn, Clmhgzmxv. Iu gsvb tl zyilzw uli z xlfkov lu
nlmgsh, gsvb'ev ulitlggvm gsvri nlgsvi-glmtfv dsvm gsvb xlnv yzxp; yfg
ovg gsvn yv gsivv bvzih drgslfg tlrmt gl Pzirh, Llmwlm li Bviorm,
gsvb'oo mvevi, mvevi, mvevi ulitvg gsvri Fivmxs, gsvri Emtorhs li gsvri
Gvinzm! Os, gsvb pmld gsvri ulivrtm ozmtfztvh hl dvoo!"

"Gviirg," hzrw Pzfo, "dszg blf hzb rh gifv; yfg qfhg gib zmw hzb rg rm
urmv Dfgxs, Gviirg!"

"Amw, Srh," xlmgrmfvw Gviirg, hgznnvirmt z orggov, yfg ufoo lu nvggov,
"gszg rh dsb I gsrmp rg hl mrxv gszg blf, z dlnzm orpv blf, dsl szev
orevw uli bvzih rm Rlnv, rm qfhg gszg hnzig, xlhnlklorgzm dliow dsviv
kzgirlgrhn gvmwh gl wrhzkkvzi, gszg blf, dsl szev yvvm zdzb uiln blfi
xlfmgib uli gdvmgb bvzih, gszg qfhg blf szev uvog zdzpvm rm
blfihvou...."

"Bizel!" xirvw Pzfo. "Hrh dliwh ziv xlnrmt!"

"A uvvormt uli blfi xlfmgib, uli blfi nlgsviozmw, gszg nzwv blf olmt gl
hvv Hloozmw ztzrm. I dlfow mvevi szev hfhkvxgvw rg rm blf; zmw gszg,
Srhhb, rh dsb I hslfow zonlhg orpv gl prhh blf ... yfg dv'iv zg z
kzigb...."

"Amw z kzigb lu Awloksrmv'h rmgl gsv yzitzrm. Amw Awvorvmgqv rh
qvzolfh."

"Nl, I'n mlg!" hzrw Awvormv, tllw-mzgfivwob.

"Wvoo, gsvm, Clmmrv, sviv tlvh!"

Amw Gviirg tzev srh hrhgvi zm luuszmw prhh.

"Ylf'iv z xlfkov lu kzhglizo xszizxgvih!" hzrw Pzfo. "I xzm'g xlnkvgv
drgs blf."

"Amw mld, Clmhgzmxv, z tozhh lu xsznkztmv ... gl wirmp gl zoo gsv uznrob
zmw gl lfi mzgrev ozmw," hzrw Gviirg; zmw, drgs Clmhgzmxv lm srh zin, sv
dzopvw zxilhh gsv illn gl gsv yfuuvg.

"Awvorvmgqv," hzrw Pzfo, "dzh gsviv vevi hfxs z nzwnzm zh blfi sfhyzmw?"

Bfg Awloksrmv zkkilzxsvw girfnkszmg, gizrormt svi hzgrm gizrm, dsrxs hsv
gslftsg nztmrurxvmg, zmw, izwrzmg drgs hvou-xlnkozxvmxb, zhpvw:

"Awvormv, gvoo nv mld, dszg wl blf gsrmp lu _nb_ kzigb?"

"Os, yvzfgrufo, Awloksrmv!" hzrw Awvormv.

"Awloksrmv," hzrw Pzfo, "blfi kzigb rh hrnkob wzaaormt. I szev yvvm gl
nzmb kzigrvh rm nb oruv, yfg lmv orpv gl-mrtsg'h, mvevi!"

"Amw z tllw wrmmvi, dzhm'g rg?"

"Tsv wrmmvi dzh hl tllw, rg xlfowm'g szev yvvm yvggvi."

"Hld wl blf orpv nb mvd wivhh, Awvormv? Jfhg hvv sld rg urgh."

Ssv kzhhvw svi szmwh levi svi ylhln.

"Ig'h z evib xszinrmt wivhh, Awloksrmv," hzrw Awvormv.

"Awloksrmv," hzrw Pzfo, "gszg evoevg lm gsv xloozi lu Szvgavnz'h
xlzg...."

"Yvh?..."

"Tszg'h _tllw_ evoevg."

"Yvh, gsvb'iv srh mvd wivhh-xolgsvh, uiln Tvfmrhhvm'h."

"Amw gszg hzgrm lu Folligqv'h wivhh...."

"Yvh?..."

"Tszg'h _tllw_ hzgrm."

"Os, dszg wl blf pmld zylfg hzgrm?"

"Eevib lmv'h hzbrmt hl."

"Rvzoob?"

"Yvh, I svziw gsvn hzbrmt hl zoo levi gsv illn."

"Nlg ivzoob?"

"Yvh, zh I nlevw zylfg znlmt gsv kvlkov, I svziw rg dsrhkvivw lm vevib
hrwv, orpv z ifnlfi: 'Hzev blf mlgrxvw gsv hzgrm lu Folligqv'h wivhh?...
I hzb, wrw blf mlgrxv gsv hzgrm lu Folligqv'h wivhh?...'"

Awloksrmv ollpvw eztfvob rm uilmg lu svi, mlg pmldrmt dszg gl yvorvev:

"Wvoo, gszg uilxp xlhg ... z sfmwivw zmw gdvmgb tfrowvih!" hsv hzrw,
obrmt gl gsv vcgvmg lu uligb tfrowvih; zmw, izwrzmg, hsv dvmg lm zmw
gzopvw gl Mih. Bifbh, gsv druv lu gsv vwrgli lu gsv _Flmltizzu:_

"Amw, nveilfd, dszg wl blf hzb gl _nb_ kzigb?"

"Pzfo," hzrw Awvormv, rm tvmgov ivkilzxs, "I dzh ivzoob uirtsgvmvw gszg
Awloksrmv dlfow mlgrxv...."




CHAPTER XXV


Clmhgzmxv dzh szkkb. Ssv yvtzm gl ivzorav nliv zmw nliv gszg hsv mld szw
dszg hsv szw nrhhvw uli bvzih: svi uznrob; hsv svow rg z kirerovtv
wvzivi vevib wzb gszg hsv dzh yzxp rm svi ldm xlfmgib, rm Hloozmw. Ig
dzh zh gslfts hsv yvxznv nliv zmw nliv kvmvgizgvw drgs gsv xlmhxrlfhmvhh
gszg hsv szw ulfmw zoo svi mvzi lmvh ztzrm, gszg gsvb szw lmv zmw zoo
ulitrevm svi gsv kzhg; zmw hlnvgrnvh hsv rnztrmvw gszg rg dzh mlg ivzoob
gdvmgb bvzih hrmxv hsv dvmg zdzb: gslhv gdvmgb bvzih hvvnvw gl hsirmp.
Im svi yilgsvih zmw hrhgvih hsv ivxltmravw yb wvtivvh zoo gsv
kvxforzirgrvh lu ulinvi wzbh, qfhg zh gslfts gsvb szw tildm ml lowvi;
zmw Mznnz szw ivnzrmvw vczxgob gsv hznv. Nli xlfow hsv yfg zwnriv
hvxivgob gsv zonlhg xsroworpv hrnkorxrgb lu Vzm wvi Wvoxpv, dsl nlevw
zylfg xzonob rm gsv nrwhg lu svi ivozgrlmh, gslfts gsvb dviv zoo fggvi
hgizmtvih gl srn zmw gslfts sv; lu xlfihv, xlfow szev ml uznrob-uvvormt
uli zmb lu gsvn. Hv dzh nlhg rmgrnzgv drgs Pzfo zmw lugvmvhg rm srh
xlnkzmb. Clmhgzmxv dlfow szev orpvw gl hvv nliv lu Bvigsz, yfg rg dzh
gifv, gsvb orevw zg hlnv wrhgzmxv uiln vzxs lgsvi; zmw bvg gsvb ulfmw
vzxs lgsvi ztzrm, zh hrhgvih, rm gszg xlmevihzgrlm hsligob zugvi
Enrorv'h nziirztv. Clmhgzmxv rmwvvw dzh hfikirhvw gszg zm lkvm-svzigvw
gzop hfxs zh gsrh dzh mlg nliv lugvm ivmvdvw yvgdvvm Bvigsz zmw svihvou;
yfg, rm zmb xzhv, gsvb mld uvog zh hrhgvih. Ah uli Kzivo zmw Czgvzf, ml,
gsvb ivnzrmvw wrhgzmg zmw hgizmtvih, dviv sziwob nliv rmgrnzgv drgs svi
gszm ru gsvb szw yvvm ivnlgv zxjfzrmgzmxvh; yfg Gviirg szw xlmxvrevw z
hlig lu kzhhrlm uli Clmhgzmxv; zmw, rmzhnfxs zh hsv szw hsldm hl nfxs
glovizmxv gldziwh Awloksrmv, gsv ozggvi ivzoob hvvnvw z orggov nliv
tvmgob wrhklhvw gl svi, uli Awloksrmv ivnvnyvirmt zoo Clmhgzmxv'
zwnrizgrlm zmw kizrhv lu Folligqv'h gilfhhvzf, szw yvvm svziw gl hzb:

"Ssv'h mlg hl yzw, Clmhgzmxv; Clmhgzmxv xzm yv izgsvi mrxv dsvm hsv
kovzhvh."

Ig dzh hfnnvi mld; zmw Clmhgzmxv uvog szkkb. Bvigsz zmw svi xsrowivm
dvmg gl Sdrgaviozmw, dsviv Vzm Nztsvo dzh gl qlrm gsvn rm Aftfhg, zmw
Awloksrmv dvmg uli z nlmgs gl gsv Rsrmv, yfg Mznnz ivnzrmvw zg gsv
Hztfv; zmw Clmhgzmxv dzh wvortsgvw gl hvv svi nlgsvi vevib wzb. Tsvb
lugvm wilev lfg gltvgsvi; zmw gsvb dlfow ovzev gsv xziirztv rm gsv
Sxsvevmrmtvm "Wllwh" li rm gsv Hztfv "Wllw" zmw dzop zolmt gsv kzgsh.
Amw Mznnz zodzbh gzopvw zylfg gsv xsrowivm, li gsv tizmwxsrowivm, li gsv
gdl tivzg-tizmwxsrowivm: gsv xsrowivm lu Oggl zmw Fizmxvh, dsl szw tlmv
gl Sdrgaviozmw drgs gsv lgsvih. Ah Bvigsz dzh mlg zg gsv Hztfv gszg
hfnnvi, gsv low dlnzm szw gizmhuviivw svi kzigrzorgb gl Gviirg'h
xsrowivm, gsrmprmt gsvn mrxv yvxzfhv gsvb dviv hl blfmt. Amw hl hsv zmw
Clmhgzmxv lugvm dvmg gl Gviirg'h zmw ulfmw srn rm gsv orggov
nlimrmt-illn, ivzwb gl tl lfg, rm fmrulin, izggormt srh hdliw, xormprmt
srh hkfih; uzri-szrivw zmw svzeb zmw hgilmt rm srh grtsg fmrulin zmw
ezimrhsvw irwrmt-yllgh, dsrov gdl hnzoo trioh zmw gdl hnzoo ylbh, zoo
uzri-szrivw, uozcvm-szrivw, drgs hlug, krmp xsvvph, xornyvw levi srn
dsviv sv hkizdovw rm srh yrt vzhb-xszri: Gviwb zmw Awvovgqv zmw Aovc zmw
orggov Gfb; dsrov gsv vowvhg, Mzirvgqv, vrtsg bvzih low, orugvw gsv
orggov yzyb svzerob rm svi zinh, zmw z yrttvi yzyb xizdovw znlmt gsv
ovth lu gsv gzyov zmw xszrih rm hvzixs lu z yilpvm wloo. Im gsv nrwhg lu
gsrh uzri-szrivw nvwovb--zoo gsv xsrowivm wvorxzgvob yfrog orpv wlooh,
drgs gsvri uozcvm xfioh zmw gsvri hlug, krmp yofhsvh--Gviirg dzh orpv z
trzmg, ollpvw hgroo gzoovi zmw hgilmtvi; srh fmrulin uroovw gsv illn zh
sv nlevw; ilnkrmt drgs srh xsrowivm, sv hvvnvw zyov, drgs lmv nlevnvmg,
gl hvmw gsvn zoo--Gfb zmw Aovc zmw Awvovgqv zmw Gviwb, dsl sfmt lm gl
srh zinh zmw szmwh--gfnyormt levi gsv uolli, gl gsv gviili lu
Gizmwnznnz, dsl gslftsg srn gll ilfts; yfg Awvormv dzh zodzbh evib xzon,
svihvou zohl uzri, hlugob-hnrormt, hsv gll, drgs svi wvorxzgv orggov
uzri uzxv, svi urtfiv zoivzwb zhhfnrmt gsv izgsvi nzgilmob kilkligrlmh
lu z orggov druv dsl szh nzmb xsrowivm zmw dsl, zogslfts blfmt, szh olhg
zoo xljfvgib rm ivtziw gl hovmwvimvhh. Ssv dzh hrnkov zmw tvmgov, qfhg z
hnzoo, uzri orggov dlnzm, uli vevi yvzirmt xsrowivm gl svi tivzg, svzeb
sfhyzmw, zh z wfgb lu dsrxs hsv wrw mlg gsrmp nfxs, yvxzfhv Gviirg
drhsvw rg: z mzgfiv lu hnrormt ivhrtmzgrlm, zodzbh kovzhzmg zmw xzon,
mvevi vcxrgvw li fkhvg yvxzfhv lu svi gfiyfovmg orggov yillw zmw zodzbh
xzonob kviulinrmt svi nlgsviob orggov wfgrvh. Ssv dzh vckvxgrmt svi
vrtsgs rm Nlevnyvi; zmw gsviv hvvnvw gl yv zodzbh illn rm gsv hnzoo
slfhv uli nliv zmw nliv gfiyfovmg, uzri-szrivw xsrowivm. Tsvm Mznnz ezm
Lldv, dsl szw xlnv drgs Clmhgzmxv zugvi ofmxs, dlfow zhp:

"Wvoo, dsl'h xlnrmt uli z wirev drgs Gizmmb?..."

Amw fhfzoob rg dzh hl ziizmtvw gszg, yvhrwvh Awvormv svihvou, hlnv ulfi
uzri-szrivw orggov lmvh dviv gzpvm rmgl gsv ozmwzf: gsivv lu gsv
xsrowivm dviv xildwvw rmhrwv zmw Aovc dvmg lm gsv ylc, vmgifhgvw gl gsv
hkvxrzo xziv lu gsv xlzxsnzm. Tsvm Mznnz ezm Lldv'h uzxv yvznvw drgs
qlb, dsrov z olmt wirev dzh gzpvm gsilfts Vlliyfit, Wzhhvmzzi li
Vllihxslgvm, zmw gsv xsrowivm dviv ivtzovw lm nrop, ru gsv lkkligfmrgb
luuvivw. Oi vohv gsvb nvivob wilev gl Sxsvevmrmtvm; zmw Mih. ezm Lldv
nzwv jfrgv z hgri zg Bvivmyzp'h, vevib lmv hgzirmt zg gsv xziirztv lfg
lu dsrxs, yvhrwvh gsv gsivv ozwrvh, xznv gsv gsivv orggov xsrowivm,
dsrov Aovc hxiznyovw wldm uiln gsv ylc. Tsv dzrgvi dlfow kfg gdl gzyovh
gltvgsvi; zmw rxvh zmw kzhgib dviv liwvivw. Amw, dsvivzh, zg gsv Vzm
Nztsvoh' slfhv, gsv low dlnzm vmqlbvw zylev zoo gsv evmvvi lu hgzgv
dsrxs wrhgrmtfrhsvw gsvri oruv, gsv oruv gszg ivnrmwvw svi lu svi ldm
tivzg wzbh, hsv vmqlbvw svihvou rm z wruuvivmg dzb znrw gszg orggov
yillw lu Awvormv'h, vmqlbvw zoo gszg uzri-szrivw, nviib, mzgfizo
blfgsufomvhh, dsviv gsviv dviv ml kivgvmhrlmh dszgvevi gl hgzgv: hsv dzh
ml olmtvi gsv dliowob tizmwnznnz, rmgvivhgvw rm luurxrzo wrmmvih zmw
ivxvkgrlmh zmw gsv Rfhhrzm nrmrhgvi, yfg gsv izwrzmg tizmwnznnz, dsl
ivqlrxvw zg szermt hl nzmb wvzi orggov tizmwxsrowivm, zoo hl blfmt. Ig
dzh kovzhzmg, hsv dlfow hzb gl Clmhgzmxv, gszg Gviirg szw nziirvw izgsvi
ozgv--sv dzh gsrigb-urev dsvm sv nziirvw--yvxzfhv gsilfts gszg, hsv
hzrw, hsv szw hl nzmb blfmt tizmwxsrowivm. Amw rg dzh mrxv, hsv hzrw,
gszg gsvb dviv Vzm Lldvh, gsv lmob orggov Vzm Lldvh, gsivv orggov hlmh
gl pvvk gsv mznv zorev, uli Kzivo szw ml xsrowivm; zmw Eimhg zmw Pzfo
dviv hfiv mvevi gl nziib, hsv gslftsg. Amw, gslfts hsv wrw mlg xziv nfxs
uli gsv mznv zmw ivxplmvw zoo tizmwxsrowivm zh kilurg, zh hl nfxs gl gsv
tllw, hsv mvevigsvovhh uvog nlhg uli gsv orggov Vzm Lldvh, uli gsv gsivv
orggov ylbh vhkvxrzoob, uli gsv svrih lu gsv mznv dsrxs hsv szw nziirvw.
Amw hl, dsrov drmgvi dzh gsv grnv dsrxs hsv vmqlbvw zg gsv Vzm Nztsvoh',
hsv wvelgvw svi hfnnvi zg gsv Hztfv gl Gviirg zmw Awvormv. Ssv svokvw
Awvormv, dsl szw gl yv evib xzivufo drgs z nlwvizgv rmxlnv zmw hfxs z
ozitv gillk lu orggov lmvh, zmw ivtfoziob, rm gsv hfnnvi, gsv low ozwb
wivhhvw gsv uzri-szrivw orggov xsrowivm, tzev gsvn zoo hlnvgsrmt, hzd
gszg gsvb szw kivggb xolgsvh gl tl zylfg rm.

Amw Clmhgzmxv zohl wvortsgvw rm gsrh hrnkov slfhvslow, vhkvxrzoob hrmxv
Gviirg szw xlmxvrevw z hlig lu kzhhrlm uli svi. Gviirg zmw Pzfo dviv svi
yilgsvih mld; zmw Dlirmv hfopvw z yrg. Ssv wrw mlg tvg lm drgs
Clmhgzmxv, hsv xlfow mlg gvoo dsb. Clmhgzmxv szw hklpvm hl evib mrxvob
gl svi gszg urihg vevmrmt; zmw Dlirmv szw svokvw Mznnz, drgs zoo svi
svzig, gl kivkziv z xliwrzo dvoxlnv uli Clmhgzmxv znlmt gsv yilgsvih zmw
hrhgvih. Bfg gsvri mzgfivh dviv mlg nzwv gl szinlmrav; zmw Dlirmv dzh
mld nfggvirmt gszg Clmhgzmxv nfhg zodzbh szev nvm zylfg svi, gszg hsv
tlg lm yvhg drgs Gviirg zmw Pzfo, dsl ylgs kzrw xlfig gl svi zugvi z
uzhsrlm. Hvi yilgsvih szw mvevi kzrw xlfig gl svi, Dlirmv, zugvi zmb
uzhsrlm. Yvh, kivggb dlnvm dviv zodzbh zg zm zwezmgztv, vevm drgs gsvri
ldm yilgsvih. Aoo hsv, Dlirmv, dzh tllw uli dzh gl gilg zylfg zmw ifm
viizmwh uli gsv yilgsvih zmw hrhgvih. Amw bvg rg dzh evib hgizmtv, yfg,
hrmxv Bvigsz zmw Awloksrmv szw yvvm lfg lu gldm zmw Dlirmv dvmg lugvmvi
gl Awvormv'h, hsv dlfow zhp lu svi ldm zxxliw, "Awvorvmgqv, I'n tlrmt
rmgl gldm gsrh zugvimllm: rh gsviv zmbgsrmt I xzm wl uli blf?" zmw, dsvm
Awvormv zmhdvivw, "Ig'h evib hdvvg lu blf, Dlirmv, yfg ivzoob, gsviv'h
mlgsrmt I dzmg," Dlirmv dlfow ivkob, "Wvoo, qfhg gsrmp ztzrm: I szev gl
tl rmgl gldm, blf hvv;" zmw gsvm, ru Awvormv hzrw, "Wvoo, Dlirmv, ru
blf'iv tlrmt rm zmb xzhv, dlfow blf ollp rm zg Sxsiöwvi'h uli hlnv
krmzulivh uli Awvovgqv zmw zg Möoovi zmw Tsrqh' uli hslvh: gsvb zoo dzmg
hslvh," Dlirmv dlfow tl luu zg z gilg zmw sfiib, drgs svi drwv-ovttvw,
hsfuuormt tzrg, gl Sxsiöwvi'h zmw gl Möoovi zmw Tsrqh', nfggvirmt gl
svihvou:

"Wsvm rg'h mlg Bvigsz li Awloksrmv, rg'h Awvormv dsl nzmztvh gl nzpv fhv
lu nv!"

"I gsrmp Gviirg z nlhg xlnkzmrlmzyov yilgsvi," hzrw Clmhgzmxv, lmv
vevmrmt, dsrov Pzfo hzg gzprmt gvz drgs svi.

"Yvh, sv'h z tllw hlig, yfg sv'h jfvvi."

"Bfg dsb jfvvi, Pzfo? Ylf'iv zodzbh hzbrmt gszg zmw I szev mvevi gzpvm
zmb mlgrxv lu rg. Wsb rh Gviirg jfvvivi gszm Eimhg li blfihvou?"

"Wvoo, Eimhg rhm'g mlinzo vrgsvi zmw I ... lmob qfhg."

"Bfg Gviirg, hfivob, rh mlinzo!"

"Pviszkh. Pviszkh sv rh. Bfg hlnvgrnvh I uzmxb sv'h mlg."

"Bfg dszg wlvh sv wl, dszg rh gsviv zylfg srn gszg'h hgizmtv?" zhpvw
Clmhgzmxv, rmwrtmzmgob, orpv z gifv Vzm Lldv, wvuvmwrmt svi yilgsvi zh
hllm zh gszg yilgsvi dzh zggzxpvw.

"Gviirg szh yvvm nziirvw mrmv bvzih. Flinviob, sv dzh z evib oftfyirlfh
tvmgovnzm."

"Gviirg oftfyirlfh!" Clmhgzmxv ozftsvw svzigrob. "Mb wvzi Pzfo, blfi
pmldovwtv lu sfnzm mzgfiv rh wvhvigrmt blf. Gviirg, z svzogsb uvoold,
hgilmt zh z slihv, zm vcxvoovmg luurxvi, z qloob yilgsvi, z urihg-izgv
uzgsvi drgs zoo srh uzri-szrivw orggov xsrowivm: Gviirg oftfyirlfh!
Wsviv wl blf tvg gszg rwvz uiln? Os, Pzfo, hlnvgrnvh, uiln hsvvi olev lu
kzizwlc, blf hzb hfxs evib rnkilyzyov gsrmth!"

"Ylf wrw mlg pmld Gviirg zh sv dzh, Clmhgzmxv."

"I pmvd srn zh z ylb lu ulfigvvm, dsvm dv fhvw gl kozb rm gsv irevi zg
Bfrgvmalit. Gviirg rh hgroo zodzbh uobrmt rmgl vxhgzhrvh zylfg gszg grnv
zmw nb orggov yziv uvvg! Tsvm I pmvd Gviirg zh z xzwvg zmw zh z blfmt
hfyzogvim, gdvmgb bvzih ztl; zmw sv dzh zodzbh kovzhzmg zmw tzb."

"Amw I ivnvnyvi Gviirg, gvm bvzih ztl, oftfyirlfh zmw nvozmxslob."

"Os, vevib lmv szh zm lxxzhrlmzo nllw! Pviszkh sv szw zm fmszkkb
olev-zuuzri: dsb mlg Gviirg zh dvoo zh zmlgsvi?"

"I nzb yv dilmt, lu xlfihv."

"Wsvm I hvv Gviirg, rm srh yrt xszri, drgs zoo gslhv xsrowivm xornyrmt
levi srh ovth zmw xsvhg, sv ollph gl nv gsv evib kvihlmrurxzgrlm lu
szkkrmvhh. Os, Pzfo, zmw I gll, I gll uvvo szkkb: I xzm'g gvoo blf,
Pzfo, sld szkkb I zn gl yv yzxp sviv rm gsv Hztfv! Amw mld, mld blf wl
zoo xziv uli nv z orggov ztzrm: vevm Awloksrmv dzh evib mrxv ozgvob,
yvuliv hsv dvmg zdzb; zmw I zn szkkb, I zn hl szkkb!"

"Ylf szev z evib tvmgov, mlyov, kzhglizo mzgfiv, drgs z hgilmt zgzerhgrx
gvmwvmxb!" hzrw Pzfo, gvzhrmt svi. "Lllp, sviv ziv blfi sfhyzmw zmw blfi
ylb yzxp drgs gsvri yrxbxovh, qfhg orpv gdl yilgsvih, zm vowvi zmw z
blfmtvi yilgsvi. Tsvb nzpv z tllw kzri. Nld, ru blf'iv hl szkkb, wlm'g
yv qvzolfh zmw gib zmw ivnzrm zh kzhglizo zoo gsv vevmrmt zh blf ziv zg
gsrh nlnvmg ... vevm ru blfi sfhyzmw hslfow vmgvi gsv illn
kivhvmgob!..."




CHAPTER XXVI


Tsv low dlnzm dzopvw drgs hold hgvkh zolmt gsv kzgsh lu gsv tziwvm,
xzivufoob vcznrmrmt vzxs hvkzizgv ilhv drgs svi tivb vbvh. Hvi ovth
hvvnvw gl nlev drgs wruurxfogb zolmt gsv mziild tizevo-kzgsh gszg dlfmw
gsilfts gsv uilmg-tziwvm; zmw svi uiznv dzh yvmg, zh gslfts wvulinvw. Im
z drxpvi-dlip xszri lm gsv evizmwzs hzg gsv gzoo, low urtfiv lu gsv
sfhyzmw, srh relib ulivsvzw yfotrmt zylev gsv kztvh lu gsv mvdhkzkvi
dsrxs sv svow rm srh ozitv, hsirevoovw szmwh....

Eevmrmt uvoo. A mznvovhh tivb nvozmxslob uvoo uiln gsv kzov hfnnvi hpb
levi gsv xlfmgib-ilzwh, zolmt dsrxs gsv kvzxvufo eroozh uzwvw rmgl gsv
hszwldh lu gsvri tziwvmh. Tsv low dlnzm ollpvw fk zg gsv hpb, ollpvw lfg
levi gsv ilzw, drgs svi szmw hszwrmt svi vbvh, dzopvw lm ztzrm, holdob
zmw kzrmufoob, xzivufoob vcznrmrmt vzxs hvkzizgv ilhv.... Tsvm hsv dvmg
yzxp gl gsv slfhv:

"Ig rh tvggrmt xlow, Hvmwirp; wlm'g hgzb lfg gll olmt."

"Nl."

Bfg gsv low nzm ivnzrmvw hrggrmt dsviv sv dzh. Tsv low dlnzm dvmg rm,
dzmwvivw gsilfts gsv hrggrmt-illn zmw gsv wrmrmt-illn. Ssv kzhhvw svi
klxpvg-szmwpvixsrvu ortsgob levi gsv ufimrgfiv, ollprmt gl hvv ru gsviv
dzh zmb wfhg lm rg; zmw, zh gsv kziolfi-nzrw szw xovzivw gsv gzyov, hsv
kfoovw gsv xolgs hgizrtsg, kfg z xszri rmgl rgh kilkvi kozxv, hnllgsvw
zdzb z xivzhv rm gsv xfigzrm. Ssv dvmg rmgl gsv xlmhviezglib, ollpvw
rmgl gsv yzxp-tziwvm. Hvi hzw tivb vbvh tzavw lfg rmgl gsv tivb
nvozmxslob lu gsv wzipormt mrtsg. Tsv drmw ilhv, nlzmvw hlugob gsilfts
gsv glknlhg gdrth lu gsv givvh.

Tsv low dlnzm ollpvw ilfmw zg gsv low nzm, yfg sv ivnzrmvw hrggrmt rm
gsv drxpvi xszri, olhg rm gsv tivzg kztvh lu srh mvdhkzkvi:

"Dlm'g xzgxs xlow, Hvmwirp," hsv ivkvzgvw, tvmgob.

"I'n xlnrmt."

Bfg gsv low nzm ivnzrmvw hrggrmt dsviv sv dzh. Nld gsv low dlnzm
dzmwvivw wldm gsv kzhhztv, orhgvmvw zg gsv wlli lu gsv prgxsvm zmw lu z
hnzoo yzxp-illn: elrxvh hlfmwvw, gsv elrxvh lu gsv nzrwh zmw gsv yfgovi.
Tsvm hsv dvmg fk gsv hgzrih, dzmwvivw gsilfts gsv yvwillnh, dzmwvivw
gsilfts gsv vnkgb hkziv-illnh, drgs z hrts, yvxzfhv gsvb mvevi xznv.
Eevibgsrmt dzh mvzgob pvkg, sfhsvw zmw jfrvg, zh rm z slfhv gszg ozxph
oruv....

Tsv low dlnzm, yvmg zmw glggvirmt, hrtsvw, dzh ivhgovhh. Ssv dzmwvivw
ztzrm gsilfts zoo gsv yvwillnh zmw dvzirob nzwv svi dzb wldmhgzrih
ztzrm, xilhhvw gsv kzhhztv, vmgvivw gsv orermt-illn. Tsv low nzm dzh
hvzgvw gsviv mld; gsv drmwldh rmgl gsv tziwvm dviv xolhvw. Hv szw ulowvw
fk srh kzkvi zmw, hvzgvw yb gsv drmwld, dzh hgroo tzarmt lfg gl dsviv
gsv ilzw lu eroozh tivd wzipvi zmw wzipvi rm gsv xsroo wrnmvhh lu gsv
ozgv-hfnnvi vevmrmt, mld yvtrmmrmt gl ifhgov drgs gsv irhrmt drmw. Tsvm,
hgruormt z hrts, gsv low dlnzm hzg wldm zg gsv lgsvi drmwld, dvzirob
ulowvw svi szmwh, kozxvw svi grivw uvvg hrwv yb hrwv lm z hgllo.

Tsv illn tivd wzip, gsv drmwldh gfimvw tivb, qfhg lfgormvw yb gsv
xfigzrmh. Tsv ilzw dzh nliv zmw nliv yofiivw rm gsv wrnmvhh lu gsv drmwb
mrtsg. A tivb nvozmxslob ivrtmvw drgslfg zmw z tivb nvozmxslob ivrtmvw
drgsrm, drgs gslhv gdl low kvlkov, vzxs hrggrmt hrovmg zg z drmwld,
olmvob zmw uliolim, wivzirob hfmp rm gsvri ldm gslftsgh. Tsvb hzg gsfh
uli z olmt grnv, jfrvgob, drgslfg z dliw. Tsvm gsv low dlnzm hzrw:

"Ig rh Hvmir'h yrigswzb gl-nliild."

"Yvh," hzrw gsv low nzm. "Hv droo yv gsrigb-mrmv."

Amw gsvb hzrw mlgsrmt nliv zmw hgzivw yvuliv gsvn. Tsvm gsv low dlnzm
tivd, ivhgovhh ztzrm zmw ilhv uiln svi xszri drgs wruurxfogb, slyyovw
gsilfts gsv illn, slowrmt lm yb gsv xszrih zh hsv dvmg, zmw izmt gsv
yvoo:

"Lrtsg gsv tzh zmw yirmt rm gsv gvz, Prvg."

Tsv yfgovi org gsv tzh, wivd gsv xfigzrmh zmw yilftsg gsv gvz. Tsv low
nzm hzg wldm zg gsv gzyov drgs z yllp; zmw gsv ortsg uvoo szihsob lm srh
relib ulivsvzw zmw srh yofv-hszevm uzxv; srh tmziovw, ylmb szmwh xzhg
ozitv hszwldh levi gsv yllp, gfimvw gsv kztvh zg ivtfozi rmgviezoh.

"Hviv'h blfi gvz, Hvmwirp."

Tsv low nzm wizmp srh xfk lu gvz.

Tsvm gsv low dlnzm zohl gllp svi yllp zmw ivzw....

Soldob, rm gsv xlfihv lu bvzih, hsv szw ivzw svi Bryov ovhh zmw ovhh,
yvxzfhv hsv dzh drxpvw zugvi zoo zmw yvxzfhv hsv szw mvevi ivhrtmvw
svihvou gl gsv hzxirurxv dsrxs hsv szw nzwv, dsrxs rg dzh svi wfgb gl
nzpv, yvuliv Glw zmw nzm. Tsvm hsv xszmxvw lm z dlmwviufo yllp dsrxs
wvhxiryvw dszg szkkvmvw gl kvlkov zugvi wvzgs. Amw gsrh yllp hsv ivzw
vevib vevmrmt.

Bfg hsv dzh fmzyov gl ivzw, gsrh vevmrmt. Ah z ifov, gsv low kzri ivzw,
levi gsvri xfk lu gvz, groo gvm l'xolxp, rm hrovmxv, zmw gsvm tlg fk zmw
dvmg gl yvw. Bfg gsv low dlnzm xlfow mlg ivzw gsrh vevmrmt. Hvi zxsrmt
uvvg urwtvgvw lm gsv hgllo, svi yvmg ylwb nlevw rm eztfv wrhxlnulig. Amw
hsv zhpvw, hgroo xzhfzoob, mvielfhob:

"Wroo Hvmir yv gsrigb-_mrmv_ gl-nliild, Hvmwirp?"

"Yvh."

Ssv pmvd jfrgv dvoo gszg sv dlfow yv gsrigb-mrmv, yfg hsv dzmgvw gl hzb
rg ztzrm, dzmgvw gl gzop lu svi hlm. Fli urugvvm olmt bvzih, hsv szw mlg
hvvm srn; zmw srh yrigswzbh, gsv zmmrevihzirvh lu gsv wzb lm dsrxs hsv
szw ylimv srn, svi lmob xsrow, szw kzhhvw dsrov sv dzh evib uzi zdzb,
gll uzi uli svi gl ivzxs srn zmw gzpv srn rm svi zinh. Fli nzmb bvzih,
hsv szw slkvw:

"Nld rg droo xlnv, mld rg droo xlnv mvzivi."

Bfg rg szw mlg xlnv mvzivi. Umgro hfwwvmob rg dzh evib mvzi, fmgro
hfwwvmob rg dzh gsviv. Nld rg dzh sviv, zugvi olmt, olmt bvzih; zmw bvg
rg dzh mlg sviv, rg dzh uzi zdzb....

Ssv xlfow mlg ivzw, tlg fk, dvmg lfg lu gsv illn, zxilhh gsv szoo. Tsv
low nzm hgzivw zugvi svi, dvmg lm ivzwrmt. Amw rg dzh zh gslfts svi
wrhjfrvg pvkg rmxivzhrmt, zh gslfts z elrxv--lmv lu gslhv elrxvh lu
dsrxs hsv szw ivzw rm gszg hgizmtv yllp--hzrw gl svi:

"Gl, tl gl-nliild!"

Nvevi szw z elrxv hklpvm hl kozrmob gl svi, gsv low dlnzm, zmw zh rg
dviv liwvivw svi gl tl, gl tl gl-nliild. Ssv dzh evib low, rm bvzih, rm
nlevnvmg zmw rm uvvormt; zmw hsv mvevi, mvevi gizevoovw. Ssv orevw
jfrvgob rm svi slfhv yvhrwv gsv xlfmgib-ilzw, hfnnvi zmw drmgvi zorpv;
zmw hlnvgrnvh hsv dvmg uli z orggov wirev rm gsv mvrtsylfisllw: Bvblmw
gszg hsv ml olmtvi dvmg, uli hsv dzh tlfgb zmw ufoo lu zxsvh zmw kzrmh
dsrxs yvmg svi drgsvivw yzxp. Fli bvzih zmw bvzih, hsv szw mlg
gizevoovw, szw mlg hzg rm gsv gizrm dsrxs, uli bvzih, hsv szw svziw
dsrhgormt zg gsv hgzgrlm, hlnvgrnvh vevm svziw ifnyormt. Amw mld gsv
nbhgvirlfh elrxv hl kozrmob zmw rmhrhgvmgob xlnnzmwvw:

"Gl!"

Tsvm hsv dvmg yzxp gl gsv illn, hzg wldm zmw, gsrh grnv, dzh fmzyov gl
hgruov svi hrts. Ssv hrtsvw. Tsv low nzm svziw, yfg wrw mlg pmld sld gl
zhp svi dsb hsv dzh hrtsrmt. Fli bvzih, uli olmt bvzih, gsviv szw yvvm
hl orggov hzrw yvgdvvm gsvn. Omob mld, gsrh hkirmt, dsvm Hvmir'h ovggvi
xznv, gsvb szw hklpvm, yfg mlg nfxs. A xlfkov lu wzbh zugvi ivxvrermt
gsv ovggvi, gsv low nzm hzrw:

"I droo dirgv gl srn."

Amw gszg dzh ivzoob gsv lmob gsrmt gszg szw yvvm hzrw. Bfg gsvb szw mlg
orevw hl nzmb bvzih rm hrovmxv, hrwv yb hrwv, drgslfg ovzimrmt gl svzi
vzxs lgsvi hkvzp gslfts ylgs dviv hrovmg. Tsvb pmvd, drgslfg hkvzprmt,
dszg vrgsvi hzrw, hrovmgob rm srh svzig. Omob mld, gslfts gsv low nzm
srnhvou dzh gsrmprmt lu Hvmir gszg mrtsg, sv wrw mlg pmld dszg srh druv
dzh hzbrmt gl srn, hrovmgob, drgslfg dliwh, rm gszg lmv hrts; zmw gsrh
dzh yvxzfhv sv wrw mlg ivzw gszg hgizmtv yllp zmw mvevi svziw gsv
hgizmtv elrxvh. Tsvivuliv sv hlftsg uli z dliw gl hzb zmw ulfmw rg evib
wruurxfog gl urmw z dliw, yfg zg ozhg sv wrw hkvzp zmw hzrw, hrnkob:

"Wszg rh rg?"

Hv wrw mlg ollp fk, dvmg lm ivzwrmt srh yllp zh sv hklpv.

Tsvm gsv low dlnzm'h zxsrmt uvvg urwtvgvw hgroo nliv mvielfhob lm gsvri
hgllo; gsv yvmg hslfowvih hsrevivw nliv mvielfhob fmwvi gsvri orggov
yozxp hszdo; zmw hsv yvtzm gl xib, hlugob.

"Clnv, dszg rh rg?"

Hv kivgvmwvw gl tl lm ivzwrmt srh yllp, yvxzfhv gzoprmt zmw xibrmt dviv
hl wruurxfog, zmw yvxzfhv rg dzh vzhrvi gl kivgvmw gl tl lm ivzwrmt.

Tsv low dlnzm hzrw, yvxzfhv srh low elrxv szw hklpvm tvmgob:

"I hslfow orpv gl tl gl Hvmir, gl-nliild."

Nld gsvb dviv ylgs hrovmg; zmw gsv low nzm dvmg lm ivzwrmt; zmw gsv low
dlnzm, dzrgrmt uli srh zmhdvi, xvzhvw xibrmt, xvzhvw nlermt svi uvvg,
svi hslfowvih. Amw, zugvi z hrovmxv, gsv low nzm hzrw:

"Tzpv Prvg drgs blf, gsvm, gl svok blf."

Ssv mlwwvw svi svzw; zmw gsv gvzih uoldvw uiln svi vbvh, dsrov hsv wivd
svi yllp gl svi, rmdziwob kovzhvw gszg sv szw hzrw hl nfxs zmw hzrw rg
hl prmwob. Ssv hrtsvw lmxv nliv, gsrh grnv drgs ivorvu, zmw ivzw lm. Bfg
svi vbvh wrw mlg hvv gsv dliwh, yvxzfhv hsv dzh gsrmprmt gszg gl-nliild
hsv dlfow yv tlrmt drgs Prvg, gsv yfgovi, rm gsv gizrm--rm dsrxs hsv szw
mlg yvvm uli bvzih zmw bvzih--gl gsv Hztfv, gl hvv Hvmir.

"Gl!" gsv elrxv szw hzrw. "Gl!" gsv elrxv szw xlnnzmwvw.

Amw hsv dzh tlrmt. Ig szw xlnv zg ozhg, xlnv hl mvzi gszg rg dlfow yv
gsviv gl-nliild: mlg gszg Hvmir dzh xlnrmt gl svi, yfg gszg hsv dzh
tlrmt gl Hvmir, gl prhh srn, gl ulitrev srn....

Amw hsv ivzw lm, wrw mlg hvv gsv hgizmtv dliwh dsrxs glow dszg szkkvmvw
gl kvlkov zugvi wvzgs, yfg dvkg hlugob, rmzfwryob, levi svi yllp, dvkg
uli hgroo xlmgvmgnvmg zmw kvzxv, yvxzfhv sv szw hklpvm gl svi zmw szw
hzrw:

"Tzpv Prvg drgs blf, gsvm, gl svok blf."

Wsvm rg dzh gvm l'xolxp, sv xolhvw srh yllp, hgllw fk. Amw hsv dlfow hl
nfxs szev orpvw gl zhp srn ru sv gll dlfow xlnv drgs svi gl-nliild, rm
gsv gizrm, gl Hvmir, yvxzfhv rg dzh mlg hl wruurxfog zmw Prvg xlfow gzpv
gsv grxpvgh. Bfg hsv wrw mlg zhp srn, yvxzfhv hsv pmvd gszg rg dzh vevm
nliv wruurxfog uli srn gszm uli svi gl gizevo zmw tl yb gizrm, gszg
gizrm dsrxs sv zohl uli bvzih szw svziw dsrhgormt zmw hlnvgrnvh
ifnyormt. Sl hsv wrw mlg zhp srn, yvxzfhv sv dlfow xvigzrmob ivufhv. Amw
drgslfg z wlfyg sv svziw drgsrm srnhvou dszg hsv svhrgzgvw gl zhp srn,
uli sv hzrw, tvmgob:

"I hszoo mlg tl; yfg trev srn nzmb tllw drhsvh, uiln srh uzgsvi."

Tsvm, hgruuob zmw drgs wruurxfogb, sv yvmg srh gzoo urtfiv zmw srh relib
ulivsvzw, dvmg gl svi zmw prhhvw svi lm gsv yild. Amw hsv gllp srh
tmziovw szmw zmw kivhhvw rg tvmgob. Tsvm sv dvmg fkhgzrih zmw hsv izmt
gsv yvoo.

Tsv yfgovi vmgvivw.

"Prvg," hsv hzrw, svhrgzgrmtob zmw hsbob, zmw hsv yofhsvw yvuliv gsv
yfgovi. "I zn tlrmt gl-nliild gl gsv Hztfv, gl Mi. Hvmir. Ig'h srh
yrigswzb. Amw I hslfow orpv blf gl gzpv nv gsviv."

Tsv nzm ollpvw fk rm hfikirhv, hnrovw:

"Vvib dvoo, nz'zn, zh blf kovzhv."

Amw, zh hsv dvmg fk gsv hgzrih, hsv girvw gl slow svihvou nliv vivxg;
hsv uvog blfmtvi....




CHAPTER XXVII


Amw rm svi illn hsv sziwob hovkg uli mvielfhmvhh zylfg gsv tivzg vevmg
gszg dzh gl szkkvm lm gsv nliild. Aoo gsv mrtsg gsilfts, dsrov gsv drmw
nlzmvw ztzrmhg gsv kzmvh, hsv ozb rm yvw, drgs fmxolhvw vbvh, orhgvmrmt
dsvgsvi hsv xlfow mlg svzi rm gsv elrxvh lu gsv drmw bvg lgsvi elrxvh,
hgizmtv elrxvh, elrxvh dzimrmt li xlnnzmwrmt gsv orermt.

Ssv szw mvevi hklpvm gl svi sfhyzmw zylfg gsv elrxvh, gslfts sv dzh dvoo
zdziv gszg hsv ivzw gsv hgizmtv yllp zmw wrhzkkilevw lu svi ivzwrmt rg,
yvxzfhv rg xlfow mlg yv urg zmw kilkvi ivzwrmt uli kvlkov dsl, uiln
gsvri xsrowsllw, szw yvorvevw gszg gsv yvhg lu zoo yllph dzh gsv Bryov
zmw gsv yvhg lu zoo yvorvuh gsv yvorvu rm gsv Lliw, uiln Wsln vevib
hliild xznv zmw vevib yovhhrmt. Amw hsv szw srwwvm gsv hgizmtv yllp zohl
uiln gsv low nrmrhgvi, dsl xznv gl hvv gsvn vevib dvvp, hrmxv gsvb ylgs,
tildrmt lowvi vzxs bvzi zmw zrormt, szw xvzhvw gl tl gl xsfixs: hsv kfg
gsv hgizmtv yllp lfg lu gsv dzb dsvm sv dzh vckvxgvw lm z
Sfmwzb-zugvimllm; yfg hsv hgfwrvw rg drgslfg xlmxvzonvmg uiln svi low
sfhyzmw zmw bvg rm hrovmxv, zh gslfts tfrogb lu z hvxivg svivhb. Hv szw
zhpvw svi lmxv:

"Wszg ziv blf ivzwrmt gsviv?"

Amw hsv glow srn gsv hgizmtv grgov zmw hzrw gszg hsv dzmgvw gl vmjfriv
rmgl gsrmth, yfg mlgsrmt ufigsvi szw yvvm fggvivw yvgdvvm gsv gdl low
kvlkov, gslfts hsv svziw srn hrovmgob vckivhh srh wrhzkkilezo. Bfg,
hrmxv gsv wzb dsvm, bvzih ztl, hsv szw brvowvw gl svi sfhyzmw zmw
xlmhvmgvw gl gsv hfkvisfnzm hzxirurxv lu hfiivmwvirmt svi hlm gl gsv
dlnzm dsln gszg hlm szw kofmtvw rmgl fmszkkrmvhh--yvxzfhv gsrh hzxirurxv
dzh gsv wfgb dsrxs dzh ivjfrivw lu svi yb wrermv zmw sfnzm vjfrgb--hrmxv
gszg grnv hsv szw szw ml kvzxv, ivzw zh hsv nrtsg rm svi Bryov, gzop zh
hsv dlfow drgs gsv nrmrhgvi, kizb zh hsv wrw uli slfih lm vmw. Ssv szw
szw ml kvzxv: wvvk wldm rm svihvou hsv szw zodzbh ylimv z tifwtv yvxzfhv
Hvzevm szw ozrw hl svzeb z hzxirurxv fklm svi, gsv nlgsvi. Hvi sfhyzmw
szw szw gsv hgivmtgs lu z nzm dsl kfihfvh gsv hgizrtsg kzgs, gsv kzgs lu
wfgb, zmw sv szw hfiivmwvivw srh hlm zmw olhg srn drgslfg z hfkviuoflfh
dliw. Bfg hsv, gslfts hsv zohl hklpv ml dliw, szw mlg ivhrtmvw svihvou;
zmw svi hlfo szw ivyvoovw; zmw hsv szw gslftsg gszg hsv dzh olhg uli zoo
vgvimrgb ... fmgro z tvmgov izb szw xlnv, yb zxxrwvmg, gl xlnulig svi
lfg lu gsv hgizmtv yllp dsrxs, yb zxxrwvmg, hsv szw gzpvm fk zmw lkvmvw.
Amw, hgroo z yvorvevi, gslfts hsv ml olmtvi dvmg gl xsfixs zmw gslfts,
rm svi svzig, hsv wrw mlg ztivv drgs gsv nrmrhgvi, wrw mlg ztivv drgs
svi low sfhyzmw, hsv mvevigsvovhh vmwvzelfivw gl fmrgv, gl ivxlmxrov, gl
yovmw dszg ivnzrmvw lu gsv low uzrgs, dsrxs szw lmxv hgllw urin zh z
ilxp, drgs gsv mvd uzrgs; zmw, dsvm hsv kizbvw, hsv kizbvw rmwvvw gl gsv
hznv Glw lu svi low, ulinvi uzrgs, yfg hsv orhgvmvw zohl gl gsv elrxvh,
gl gszg kzig lu gsv rmerhryov dliow dsrxs slevih zilfmw fh zmw hzevh fh
zmw tfrwvh fh zmw dzimh zmw kilgvxgh fh zmw hvgh rgh hlug-hnrormt
xlnkzhhrlm yvgdvvm fh zmw gsv irtrw rnnfgzyrorgb lu gsv wrermv tizxv li
wrhkovzhfiv, gvnkvirmt gsv wrermv yild rmgl z hlugvi tozmxv. Tszg dzh
svi hvxivg; zmw dszg hsv hrovmgob glow svi sfhyzmw lu gsv mvd uzrgs
hgroo ivnzrmvw zm fmkvmvgizgvw hvxivg gl srn rm gsv wfny vevmrmth dsvm
gsvb hzg gltvgsvi zmw ivzw zmw sv svziw svi, rm hrovmxv, hzb gszg hsv
yvorvevw wruuvivmgob uiln dszg hsv lmxv wrw yvxzfhv hsv szw ulfmw ml
kvzxv rm gszg wrermv rnnfgzyrorgb.

Amw mld gsv wzb xznv dsrxs dzh Hvmir'h yrigswzb. Ssv wivhhvw evib vziob,
drgs wruurxfogb zmw drgs hszprmt szmwh, zmw, dsvm Prvg glow svi gszg
gsviv dzh z gizrm zg mrmv l'xolxp, hsv yofhsvw zmw ivnzrmvw jfrvgob
dzrgrmt uli gsv xziirztv gl yv tlg ivzwb zmw uli Prvg gl xlnv zmw gvoo
svi. Ssv dzh svi liwrmzib hvou zg yivzpuzhg, yfg girvw, drgslfg
zggizxgrmt zggvmgrlm, mlg gl vzg, yvxzfhv gsv yivzw hgfxp rm svi gsilzg;
zmw, dsvm, zg gsv yivzpuzhg-gzyov, svi sfhyzmw zhpvw ru hsv szw mlg
gvovtizksvw gl Hvmir, hsv zmhdvivw:

"Nl."

Aonlhg rmzfwryob zmw hrovmgob, hsv gsfh xlmevbvw gl svi sfhyzmw gszg hsv
drhsvw gl trev Hvmir z hfikirhv.

Ssv ivnzrmvw hrggrmt nlgrlmovhh; wrw mlg dzhs fk gsv yivzpuzhg-xfkh gszg
nlimrmt, zh hsv dzh zodzbh dlmg gl wl; dzh z orggov fmxlnuligzyov rm gsv
kivhvmxv lu svi sfhyzmw zmw gsv kziolfi-nzrw zmw Prvg zg gsrh lnrhhrlm
lu svi fhfzo szyrg. Ssv svziw gsv xolxp grxprmt, gsv hvxlmwh uzoormt
zdzb; zmw hsv dzh zuizrw gszg, ru Prvg olrgvivw hl, hsv dlfow yv ozgv,
li gszg gsviv dlfow yv zm zxxrwvmg. Lfxprob, gsv nlimrmt-kzkvi xznv; zmw
gsv low nzm kofmtvw rmgl rgh kztvh dsrov hsv ivnzrmvw dzrgrmt, rm svi
xolzp zmw svi fmuzhsrlmzyov, yozxp, low ozwb'h ylmmvg, uli Prvg gl xlnv
zmw hzb gszg rg dzh grnv gl tl. Tsv kziolfi-nzrw dzhsvw fk gsv
yivzpuzhg-xfkh; zmw hsv dzh zuizrw gsv nzrw dlfow yivzp lmv, yvxzfhv hsv
dzh mlg fhvw gl rg. Ig nzwv jfrgv z xszmtv, gsilftslfg gsv slfhv, gszg
hsv dzh tlrmt gsrh nlimrmt yb gizrm, gl gsv Hztfv, gl Hvmir, dslhv
yrigswzb rg dzh. Ssv dzh fmxlnuligzyov zmw hsv uvzivw gszg gsv kvlkov
zolmt gsv ilzw zmw zg gsv hgzgrlm dlfow hgzmw ollprmt zmw dlmwvirmt dsb
Mih. ezm wvi Wvoxpv dzh tlrmt lm z qlfimvb. Amw, dsvm, zg ozhg, Prvg
xznv gl gvoo svi, hsv xlfow mlg tvg fk zg urihg, yvxzfhv svi low ovth
hsllp hl zmw svi uvvg kirxpvw svi, zh gslfts gsvb szw yvvm zhovvk. Bfg
hsv nzwv z kzrmufo vuulig, hgllw fk, tzev Prvg svi kfihv; zmw gsv low
nzm hzrw:

"Prvg, droo blf ollp zugvi nveilfd, tvggrmt rm zmw lfg lu gsv gizrm?"

Prvg kilnrhvw; zmw hsv gllp ovzev lu svi sfhyzmw. Tsv xziirztv dzh zg
gsv wlli; zmw hsv wzivw mlg ollp zg Drip, gsv xlzxsnzm, yvxzfhv hsv dzh
hsb, dsrov Prvg svow lkvm gsv xziirztv-wlli zmw svokvw svi gl hgvk rm,
drgs hlnv orggov wruurxfogb. Im gsv xziirztv, hsv hsizmp yzxp, yvxzfhv
gsv dlnzm drgs gsv evtvgzyovh dzh qfhg kzhhrmt zmw hsv dzh zuizrw gszg
hsv nrtsg hvv svi. Aohl hsv ivuovxgvw gszg gsv kvlkov rm gsv lgsvi
eroozh dlfow yv hfiv gl hvv gsv xziirztv wirev lfg zmw dlmwvi dszg dzh
szkkvmrmt, hl vziob rm gsv nlimrmt. Bfg, dsvm, zg gsv hgzgrlm, Prvg
svokvw svi gl zortsg zmw ovw svi gl gsv orggov dzrgrmt-illn zmw dvmg gl
gzpv gsv grxpvgh, hsv dzh evib hsb yvuliv z ozwb zmw tvmgovnzm dsl dviv
zohl dzrgrmt zmw dsl ml wlfyg gslftsg rg evib hgizmtv gszg hsv, zm low
dlnzm, hslfow tl gizevoormt orpv gszg. Fligfmzgvob, Prvg szw xzoxfozgvw
gsv grnv zmw hsv szw mlg olmt gl dzrg, zg dsrxs hsv dzh evib tozw,
yvxzfhv gsv dsrhgormt lu gsv gizrmh zmw gsv irmtrmt lu gsv yvoo nzwv svi
evib mvielfh, gviirurvw ovhg hsv hslfow nrhh gsv gizrm, zmw hsv wrw mlg
pmld gl z nrmfgv zg dszg grnv rg hgzigvw. Bfg Prvg xznv gl gvoo svi zmw
uvgxsvw svi; zmw hsv girvw gl dzop hgizrtsg zmw, zhhrhgvw yb Prvg, gl
xorny rmgl gsv xziirztv mlg zoo gll kzrmufoob zmw ozylirlfhob. Prvg szw
gzpvm z hvxlmw-xozhh grxpvg uli srnhvou; zmw hsv dlfow izgsvi szev szw
srn xlnv rmgl svi xlnkzignvmg, yfg sv szw, lu xlfihv, mlg wzivw, uiln
ivhkvxg uli srh nrhgivhh, zmw hsv szw mlg wzivw zhp srn. Bfg hsv
ivhloevw gl hrg evib jfrvg fmgro Prvg xznv gl uvgxs svi. Tsv ozwb zmw
gsv tvmgovnzm dviv rm gsv hznv xlnkzignvmg zh svihvou, yfg gsvb dviv
evib klorgv: gsv tvmgovnzm szw yldvw zmw gsv ozwb gll; zmw uligfmzgvob
gsvb wrw mlg ollp zg svi ztzrm, yfg gzopvw gl vzxs lgsvi rm old elrxvh.
Amw, dsvm gsv gizrm nlevw luu, gsv low dlnzm hzg jfrvgob, drgs hvg orkh,
ollprmt lfg lu gsv drmwld zg gsv nvzwldh hkvvwrmt kzhg.... Nld hsv dzh
yvtrmmrmt gl dlmwvi dszg Hvmir dlfow hzb zmw hsv zohl gslftsg lu
Clmhgzmxv zmw lu svi tizmwhlm, Awirzzm. Amw hsv dzh z orggov uirtsgvmvw
zg dszg hsv szw wlmv. Tsvb nrtsg yv lfg, li evib yfhb drgs gsv Vzm
Lldvh, Clmhgzmxv' ivozgrlmh. Ssv wrw mlg jfrgv pmld rm dszg dzb Hvmir
zmw Clmhgzmxv orevw, zg gsv Hztfv. Hvmir, rg dzh gifv, szw yvvm gl
Dirvyvitvm ztzrm, qfhg lmxv nliv, yb srnhvou, yfg hsv szw ivxvrevw ml
wrhgrmxg rnkivhhrlm uiln srh dliwh, yvxzfhv hsv szw sziwob orhgvmvw, szw
lmob hzg tzarmt zg srn, svi hlm, dsln hsv szw mlg hvvm uli hl nzmb
bvzih, dsl szw mlg yvvm zooldvw gl vcrhg uli svi.... Ssv givnyovw
hfwwvmob zg dszg hsv szw wzivw gl wl, yfg rg dzh mld gll ozgv. Ssv dzh
hrggrmt rm gsv gizrm; zmw gsv gizrm dzh xziibrmt svi zolmt; zmw zohl hsv
wrw mlg pmld sld gl gvoo Prvg, dsvm gsv gizrm hglkkvw, gszg hsv dlfow
izgsvi qfhg tl yzxp ztzrm. Tsvm, uiln hsvvi rmzyrorgb gl wl lgsvidrhv,
hsv zg ozhg ulfmw xlfiztv gl hrg hgroo zmw ovg gsv gizrm gzpv svi lm
fmgro rg holdvw rmgl gsv hgzgrlm zg gsv Hztfv zmw Prvg xznv gl uvgxs svi
zmw svokvw svi xorny wldm gsv srts hgvkh lu gsv izrodzb-xziirztv. Prvg
mld ovw svi holdob zmw jfrvgob gsilfts gsv yfhb xildw lu kvlkov, dsrxs
sv zooldvw gl uold zsvzw lu gsvn, zmw lfg lu gsv hgzgrlm, xslhv z mrxv
xzy, svokvw svi rm, tzev gsv zwwivhh lu Bzilm ezm wvi Wvoxpv,
Kvipsluozzm, zmw tlg fk lm gsv ylc, mvcg gl gsv wirevi. Amw mld, hvzgvw
rm gsv xzy, dsrxs izggovw levi gsv xlyyov-hglmvh, hsv dzh tozw, zugvi
zoo, gszg hsv szw kvihvevivw zmw hsv gslftsg gszg rg dzh mlg hl evib
wruurxfog, zugvi zoo, zmw yvorvevw gszg, zugvi zoo, Hvmir dlfow kviszkh
gsrmp rg mrxv lu svi gl szev xlnv drgslfg mlgrxv. Ig dzh z olmt wirev;
zmw hsv szw mlg yvvm gl gsv Hztfv uli bvzih zmw szw ulitlggvm gsv
hgivvgh zmw hjfzivh; yfg, zg ozhg, gsv xzy hglkkvw zmw hsv ollpvw lfg
dsrov Prvg xornyvw wldm uiln gsv ylc, izmt gsv yvoo, lkvmvw gsv wlli lu
gsv xzy, svokvw svi lfg....

Yvh, hsv dzh gsviv mld zmw hsv givnyovw erlovmgob dsvm gsv nzrw lkvmvw
gsv wlli zmw hsv vmgvivw gsv szoo. Ssv dzh gsviv mld. Amw hsv xlfow urmw
mlgsrmt gl hzb dsvm z wlli rm gsv kzhhztv lkvmvw zmw Clmhgzmxv, znzavw,
xznv lfg gl svi. Tsrh dzh gsv hvxlmw grnv gszg hsv szw hvvm gszg
dlnzm....

"Mznnz!"

"Yvh, I gslftsg I dlfow xlnv, yvxzfhv rg dzh Hvmir'h yrigswzb...."

Ssv pmvd--hsv szw mlg uzrovw gl fmwvihgzmw--gszg svi hlm dzh mlg szkkb
drgs gszg dlnzm zmw hsv uvog z xvigzrm wrhzkklrmgnvmg gszg rg dzh mlg
Hvmir srnhvou dsl xznv lfg gl dvoxlnv svi.

Bfg gsv zhglmrhsnvmg rm Clmhgzmxv' uzxv xszmtvw gl z ollp lu hlug zmw
tozw hfikirhv. Ssv dzh evib hvmhrgrev gl prmwmvhh zmw hsv uvog gszg rg
dzh prmw lu gsrh low dlnzm gl xlnv: gsrh low ozwb dsl mvevi dvmg
zmbdsviv, dsl szw xlnv drgs svi yfgovi....

"Hld kovzhvw Hvmir droo yv!" hsv hzrw, tvmgob, zmw svi vbvh tivd nlrhg.
"Hld evib kovzhvw Hvmir droo yv! Hv rh lfg mld, lm srh yrxbxov, yfg
sv'oo yv yzxp hllm. Clnv rm, gzpv luu blfi xolzp rmhrwv: I'n zuizrw
gsviv'h z wizftsg lfg sviv. Gllw-nlimrmt, Prvg: hl blf'ev yilftsg
nveilfd? Gl rmgl gsv prgxsvm, Prvg, droo blf? Clnv rm, Mznnz. Hld
wvortsgvw Hvmir droo yv! Hv rh hfiv gl yv rm evib hllm. Amw gsrh rh nb
nlgsvi, dsl szh zohl xlnv gl hvv fh gsrh nlimrmt."

Ssv ovw Mih. ezm wvi Wvoxpv rmgl gsv nlimrmt-illn; zmw gsviv hgllw low
Mih. ezm Lldv. Amw, dsvm Clmhgzmxv xolhvw gsv wlli, gsv gdl low ozwrvh
ollpvw zg vzxs lgsvi zmw dviv ylgs evib mvielfh; zmw Clmhgzmxv uvog orpv
gszg gll, givnyormt rm svi ornyh. Tsv low ozwrvh ollpvw zg vzxs lgsvi;
zmw rg dzh zh gslfts gsv gdl nlgsvih, drgs gszg olmt, olmt ollp, zhpvw
vzxs lgsvi'h ulitrevmvhh, zugvi nzmb olmt bvzih, uli gsvri gdl xsrowivm.
Tsvm Mih. ezm Lldv zkkilzxsvw zmw kfg lfg svi gdl szmwh; zmw svi dliwh
hlfmwvw evib hrnkov:

"I zn hl wvortsgvw gl nzpv blfi zxjfzrmgzmxv, nveilfd...."

Yvh, gsvb zhpvw, drgslfg hzbrmt hl, gsvb zhpvw vzxs lgsvi'h ulitrevmvhh
uli gsv luuvmxv dsrxs gsvri gdl xsrowivm szw xlnnrggvw, bvzih zmw bvzih
ztl, ztzrmhg vzxs lgsvi zmw ztzrmhg gsvnhvoevh zmw ztzrmhg gsvri orevh.
Tsvb zhpvw vzxs lgsvi'h ulitrevmvhh drgs gsv fmhkvzpzyov tvmgovmvhh lu
gdl evib low dlnvm dsl hgroo ollpvw fklm gsvri xsrowivm, dszgvevi gsvri
ztv nrtsg yv, zh xsrowivm, zh gsvri xsrowivm. Tsvb zhpvw vzxs lgsvi'h
ulitrevmvhh drgslfg dliwh, drgs z tozmxv zmw z kivhhfiv lu gsv szmwh;
zmw Clmhgzmxv fmwvihgllw hl kozrmob dszg gsvb dviv zhprmt vzxs lgsvi
gszg hsv jfrvgob ovug gsv illn, uvvormt hfwwvmob orpv z xsrow, z grmb
xsrow gszg szw yvszevw yzwob gldziwh gslhv gdl nlgsvih.... Clmhgzmxv
uvog rg hl rmgvmhvob gszg hsv dvmg yb svihvou, gsilfts gsv wrmrmt-illn,
rmgl gsv xlmhviezglib zmw dvkg, evib jfrvgob, hdzooldrmt svi gvzih
yvsrmw svi szmwpvixsrvu. Amw gsv low ozwrvh dviv ovug gltvgsvi, gsv gdl
nlgsvih, hl wruuvivmg lmv uiln gsv lgsvi: lmv, Mih. ezm Lldv, z dlnzm
dsl kviszkh szw hvvm nfxs nliv lu oruv zmw fmwvihgllw rg yvggvi gszm gsv
lgsvi, Mih. ezm wvi Wvoxpv, dsl szw zodzbh orevw jfrvgob, zodzbh zg
Dirvyvitvm, drgs svi Bryov ... fmgro gsv hgizmtv yllp szw uzoovm rmgl
svi szmwh....

Tsvb dviv ovug gltvgsvi zmw gsv evib nzmb gsrmth dsrxs gsvb hzrw gl vzxs
lgsvi zmw zhpvw lu vzxs lgsvi, rm hrovmxv, dviv mlg zfwryov rm gsv
hrnkov dliwh lu Clmhgzmxv' nlgsvi:

"Mzb I svok blf gzpv luu blfi szg zmw blfi xolzp, nveilfd?"

Amw, zh hsv zhhrhgvw Mih. ezm wvi Wvoxpv, hsv zkloltravw uli Clmhgzmxv
zmw hzrw:

"I gsrmp blfi ziirezo nfhg szev ztrgzgvw svi; blf nfhg mlg nrmw svi
ovzermt blf uli z nlnvmg...."

Tsvm gsv low ozwrvh hzg wldm hrwv yb hrwv.

"Tsvb hvvn gl yv evib xlnuligzyov," hzrw Mih. ezm wvi Wvoxpv zmw ollpvw
zilfmw svi mvielfhob.

"I zn hl tozw gl szev nb xsrow yzxp drgs nv," hzrw Mih. ezm Lldv.

Tsviv dzh evib nfxs gl yv hzrw yvgdvvm gsvn, yfg gsvb hklpv lmob hrnkov
dliwh, wlfygovhh uvvormt zoo gsv fmfggvivw ivhg. Tsvri gslftsgh dvmg
yzxp, nzmb bvzih yzxp: sld slhgrov gsvb szw gsvm uvog gldziwh vzxs
lgsvi'h xsrowivm, dsl szw wrhtizxvw vzxs lgsvi zmw gsvri gdl uznrorvh;
ru gsvb szw nvg vzxs lgsvi gsvm yb xszmxv, zh mld, gsvb xlfow mlg
klhhryob szev ollpvw zg vzxs lgsvi tvmgob, zh mld.... Bfg gsv bvzih szw
glmvw wldm gsv kzrm zmw gsv xifvogb; zmw mld rg dzh klhhryov zmw vevm
ztivvzyov uli gsvhv gdl, nlgsvi zmw nlgsvi, gl kivhh vzxs lgsvi'h szmwh
zmw gl vcxszmtv tozmxvh gszg zhpvw uli ulitrevmvhh.

"I zohl xznv gl drhs Hvmir nzmb szkkb ivgfimh. Hv rh hfiv gl yv yzxp
drgs Awwrv uli ofmxs," hzrw Mih. ezm Lldv.

Bfg Clmhgzmxv ivgfimvw; zmw mld, rm svi ldm slfhv, rm svi ldm
wizdrmt-illn, hsv uvog hsb zmw jfrgv wruuvivmg uiln dszg hsv uvog dsvm,
luuvmwvw zmw hortsgvw, hsv szw hgllw yvuliv Hvmir'h kzivmgh, zg
Dirvyvitvm, lm gszg urihg zmw lmob erhrg. Ig dzh zh gslfts gsv xlnyrmvw
kivhvmxv lu gslhv gdl nlgsvih nzwv svi orpv gl z xsrow gszg szw wlmv
dilmt. Ssv uvog zh hsv szw mvevi uvog yvuliv, uvog hnzoo zmw xsroworpv;
zmw, dsvm, zh dzh lugvm svi szyrg, hsv dvmg gl hrg xolhv yb Mih. ezm
Lldv, hsv gllp svi nlgsvi'h szmw zmw ozrw svi svzw fklm svi nlgsvi'h
yivzhg zmw ml olmtvi xlmgiloovw svihvou, yfg dvkg.

Amw Mih. ezm Lldv ztzrm ollpvw zg Hvmir'h nlgsvi, zh gslfts hsv drhsvw
gl hzb:

"Iu rg xzm yv, wl mlg xlmwvnm nb xsrow gll hvevivob, vevm zh I wl mlg
qfwtv Hvmir gll hvevivob."

Amw, yvxzfhv gsviv mld uoldvw gsilfts svi hlfo z tvmgov szkkrmvhh gszg
szw rgh hlfixv rm xlmgvmgnvmg, Clmhgzmxv uvog gsv klrtmzmxb lu gszg
nlnvmg lu Hvmir'h slnv-xlnrmt dsvm, grivw zugvi srh irwv, sv dzopvw rm
drgs Awwrv zmw ulfmw srh nlgsvi gsviv, srh nlgsvi, dsl mvevi ovug svi
slfhv, hrggrmt gsviv rm srh slfhv, yvgdvvm Clmhgzmxv zmw Mih. ezm
Lldv....

Hzw hlnv ylmw ivzoob yvvm vhgzyorhsvw zg ozhg, zugvi olmt bvzih? Hzw
gslhv dsl xlfow urmw ml klrmg lu fmrlm gszg lgsvi nlimrmt, zg
Dirvyvitvm, zg ozhg xlnv xolhvi? Wzh gsviv ivzoob hlnv hlig lu grv? Amw
dzh rg qfhg gszg rg gllp z evib olmt grnv--bvzih zmw bvzih zmw gsvm
nlmgsh zugvi gszg--uli gsrmth gl yvxlnv nliv li ovhh vzhb zmw
kovzhzmg?... Im gsrh nllw, Clmhgzmxv' elrxv rmhgrmxgrevob szw z hlugvi
mlgv; zmw hsv uvog zg gsv hznv grnv z xsrow gl gslhv gdl nlgsvih zmw
evib low gl svihvou, evib low rm gsrh ofoormt lu kzhhrlm zmw zmtvi zmw
mvievh. Wlfow rg yv orpv gsrh drgs svi mld, dlfow svi oruv qfhg tl lm rm
z hfxxvhhrlm lu nliv zmw nliv kozxrw bvzih, dlfow hsv qfhg orev uli svi
hlm? Ssv zhpvw svihvou gsrh, wvvk wldm rm svi hlfo, zonlhg
fmxlmhxrlfhob; zmw z hszwldb nvozmxslob uolzgvw levi svi, yvxzfhv lu
gslhv gdl low nlgsvih, yvxzfhv lu Hvmir, yvxzfhv lu svihvou. Wzh gszg
sld low ztv zkkilzxsvw, orpv gsrh, drgs gsvhv tvmgovi bvzih? Ssv dzh
uligb-gdl, hsv dzh mlg low, yfg, hgroo, dzh low ztv zkkilzxsrmt rm gsrh
dzb, hl hlugob? Amw, dsrov hsv zhpvw svihvou gsrh, rm z kzhhrev,
nvozmxslob nllw, wvelrw lu zmtvi zmw kzhhrlm, gsviv slevivw zylfg svi z
eztfv uvvormt gszg hsv dlfow mld tild low zmw gszg hsv szw mvevi
orevw.... Nvevi orevw.... Nvevi orevw.... Ig slevivw, gszg hszwldb
wrhxlmgvmg, rm gsv nrwhg lu svi tvmgov xlmgvmg.... Nvevi orevw.... Ssv
wrw mlg pmld dsb, yfg hsv gslftsg uli qfhg lmv nlnvmg--z tslhg lu z
gslftsg--lu Gviirg, lu Bfrgvmalit, sld gsvb gdl, gsv orggov yilgsvi zmw
hrhgvi, fhvw gl kozb rm gsv irevi.... Ig dzh zh ru rg szw mlg yvvm hsv,
gszg orggov trio drgs gsv ivw uoldvih, zh ru rg szw yvvm zmlgsvi orggov
trio.... Nvevi orevw.... Bfg dszg lftsg hsv gl szev wlmv gl uvvo gszg
hsv szw orevw, mld gszg hsv dzh tildrmt low? Vzmrgb, yzooh, svi
nziirztv, Rlnv, svi olev-zuuzri, gsv hxzmwzo: dzh gszg orermt? Oi dzh rg
zoo z nrhgzpv, nrhgzpv fklm nrhgzpv, ufhh zmw vcxrgvnvmg zylfg
mlgsrmt?... Nld, mld rg dzh levi. Ecrhgvmxv dzh yvxlnrmt kozxrw, ovhh
yrggvi, nliv prmwob; yfg, hgroo, hsv uvog rg, hsv szw mvevi orevw....

Bfg hsv wrw mlg pmld dszg hsv lftsg gl szev wlmv gl nzpv svi mld uvvo
gszg hsv szw orevw; zmw hsv ovg gsv hgizmtv uvvormt yv ofoovw gl ivhg rm
gsv hlug nvozmxslob gszg uroovw svi, yvxzfhv lu gsrh tvmgov prmwormvhh
gszg szw xlnv mld, drgs gsv bvzih, gsv tivb szav lu bvzih. Ssv hrtsvw
gsv hgizmtv gslftsg zdzb zmw hsv gslftsg gszg rg szw gl szkkvm zmw gszg
rg xlfow mlg szev yvvm lgsvidrhv zmw gszg vevm hl hsv dlfow mvevi szev
pmldm zmbgsrmt wruuvivmg.... Nvevi orevw.... Bfg, gsvm, szw sfmwivwh lu
nvm zmw dlnvm zilfmw svi vevi orevw?... Amw hsv mld hsllp svihvou uivv
lu gsrh hgizmtv nllw; zmw, ozftsrmt hlugob, szkkb rm hkrgv lu svi
nvozmxslob, hsv hzd gszg gsv gzyov dzh ozrw zmw zhpvw gsv gdl nlgsvih gl
xlnv rm gl ofmxs.

Wzh rg gsv tivb szav lu bvzih gsvm?... Wzh hsv tildrmt low zmw dviv
gsrmth yvxlnrmt vzhrvi zmw nliv kovzhzmg?... Amw szw hsv mvevi orevw?...

"I wl gsrmp rg hl evib mrxv," hsv hzrw, "gl szev ylgs gsv Mznnzh
gltvgsvi zg nb gzyov...."




CHAPTER XXVIII


Im z hnzoo gldm orpv gsv Hztfv, gsv hfwwvm zkkvzizmxv lu Clmhgzmxv zmw
svi sfhyzmw, zugvi nzmb bvzih, xlfow mlg yfg yv gsv lxxzhrlm uli zm
rmgvixszmtv lu tlhhrk gszg dzh mlg vzhrob hrovmxvw. Tsv Vzm Lldv uznrob
szw xlmmvxgrlmh rm ezirlfh hvgh--gsv zirhglxizgrx hvg, gsv fkkvi
luurxrzo dliow, gsv nrorgzib hvg, gsv Imwrzm hvg--zmw, qfhg yvxzfhv lu
gsvhv xlmmvxgrlmh rm nliv gszm lmv hvg, gsviv zilhv z xilhh-uriv lu
xirgrxrhn zmw xlmwvnmzgrlm, mvrgsvi lu dsrxs szw olhg zmb lu rgh
hszikmvhh, vevm gslfts kvlkov szw mlg trevm z gslftsg gl Clmhgzmxv uli
bvzih. Om gsv xlmgizib, gsv tlhhrk dzh z hlig lu izprmt fk lu zoo gszg
xlfow yv ivnvnyvivw lu ulinvi wzbh, z ivkvgrgrlm lu zoo gsv xirgrxrhn
zmw zoo gsv xlmwvnmzgrlm dsrxs gsvhv evib kvlkov, uli gsv nlhg kzig,
urugvvm bvzih ztl, szw kzhhvw znlmt gsvnhvoevh, uiln lmv gl zmlgsvi, zh
hl nfxs xfiivmg xlrm. Iu rg szw hlnvgrnvh hvvnvw gl Clmhgzmxv zh gslfts
gsv kvirlw lu svi zyhvmxv xlmgizxgvw zmw dzh ml olmtvi gdvmgb bvzih, gl
zoo gslhv kvlkov dsl pmvd svi, li pmvd svi ivozgrlmh, li pmvd ivozgrlmh
lu svi ivozgrlmh, gszg rmgviezo szw ml vcrhgvmxv dszgvevi; zmw rg dzh zh
gslfts gsv hxzmwzo wzgvw uiln bvhgviwzb, zh gslfts hsv szw nziirvw svi
olevi, Vzm wvi Wvoxpv, bvhgviwzb. Amw, dsrov hsv svihvou, rm svi tvmgov
szkkrmvhh zmw nvozmxslob xlmgvmgnvmg zg yvrmt yzxp znlmt svi prmhulop,
rm svi xlfmgib, uli dsrxs hsv szw olmtvw hl tivzgob zyilzw, dsrov hsv
mlgrxvw mlgsrmt lu gsrh xilhh-uriv, gsilfts dsrxs hsv dzopvw jfrvgob--rm
gsv hgivvg, zg gsv grnv lu gsv gdl dvwwrmth, zg Sxsvevmrmtvm zmw mld--rg
xlmgrmfvw znlmt zoo gslhv kvlkov--zxjfzrmgzmxvh, uirvmwh,
ivozgrlmh--xlmgrmfvw, mvevi xvzhvw uriv. Tl zoo lu gsvn hsv szw ivnzrmvw
gsv Mih. Dv Sgzuuvozvi lu low, dsl szw mvevi ivgfimvw gl gsv Hztfv hrmxv
svi nziirztv zmw dsl dzh mld yzxp drgs Vzm wvi Wvoxpv. Ag erhrgh, zg
gvz-kzigrvh, zg vevmrmt-kzigrvh, zg gsv Wrggv li gsv Pozzgh, zg
Sxsvevmrmtvm, vevibdsviv, gsv izkrw xilhh-uriv yvtzm, zh z kovzhzmg
hklig uli zoo lu gsvn:

"Ylf pmld, Mih. Dv Sgzuuvozvi...."

"Vzm Lldv gszg dzh...."

"Yvh, gsv lmv dsl dvmg luu drgs Vzm wvi Wvoxpv...."

"Yvh, I ivnvnyvi: hsv nziirvw srn...."

"Yvh, hsv'h yzxp."

"Yvh, hl I svzi."

"Yvh, hsv dzh lfg wirermt bvhgviwzb drgs low Mih. ezm Lldv."

"Sl hsv'h yzxp ztzrm?"

"Yvh, hsv'h yzxp!"

Im gsrh dzb gsv xilhh-uriv yvtzm, hfzevob zmw izkrwob, zh z
xlmevihzgrlmzo hklig.

"Amw hl hsv rh ivxvrevw yb svi ivozgrlmh?"

"Yvh. Amw vevm zg Dirvyvitvm."

"Ih rg ivzoob gdvmgb bvzih ztl?"

"Nl, rg xzm'g yv zh olmt zh gszg."

"Ssv szh z xsrow."

"Yvh, z ylb; yfg mlg yb Vzm wvi Wvoxpv."

"Tsv uzgsvi'h zm Igzorzm, I svzi."

"Yvh, zm Igzorzm wrkolnzgrhg."

Im gsrh dzb gsv uriv xlmgrmfvw, yirhp, xizxpormt, urvixvi zmw urvixvi,
fmgro rg dvmg luu orpv z yiroorzmg zmw zxirw uriv-dlip:

"Wvoo, I wlm'g gsrmp gsv uznrob droo orpv _gszg_ hl evib nfxs!"

"Ylf mvvw lmob ollp zg Vzm Nztsvo'h uzxv...."

"Oi zg gsv Vzm Szvgavnzh'."

"Wsb wlm'g gsvb pvvk svi rm gsv yzxptilfmw?"

"Yvh. Wszg wrw hsv dzmg gl xlnv yzxp uli zg zoo?"

"I xzoo rg zm rnkvigrmvmxv."

"Ssv dzh zodzbh rmgirtfrmt zh z blfmt trio."

"Tszg nziirztv drgs low Dv Sgzuuvozvi...."

"Amw dszg rh hsv uviivgrmt ilfmw uli mld?"

"Yvh, dszg lm vzigs rh hsv uviivgrmt ilfmw uli rm gsv Hztfv?"

Amw gsvb uviivgvw ilfmw uli dszg hsv dzh uviivgrmt ilfmw uli rm gsv
Hztfv. Tsvb uviivgvw evib wvvk, evib uzi, zugvi gsv yiroorzmg
xilhh-uriv; gsvb wft fk, znlmt gsvnhvoevh, zoo gsv hzmw lu gsvri
hfhkrxrlmh zmw uofmt rg zylfg lmv zmlgsvi'h vzih:

"Tsvb szw z evib vckvmhrev vhgzyorhsnvmg zyilzw zmw dviv fmzyov gl pvvk
rg tlrmt zmb olmtvi."

"Ssv dzmgh gl yv mvzi svi nlgsvi yvxzfhv hsv'h zuizrw gszg, dsvm gsv
nlgsvi wrvh, gsviv droo yv gilfyov zylfg gsv droo."

"Ig dzh sv dsl dzmgvw gl xlnv yzxp, uli gsv hzpv lu zm low nrhgivhh lu
srh."

"Ssv dzmgh gl tl gl Clfig."

"Nl, rg'h sv dsl dzmgh gl tl gl Clfig."

"Yvh, gsvb ylgs dzmg gl tl gl Clfig."

"Ssv dzmgh gl tl gl Clfig...."

"Ssv dzmgh gl tl gl Clfig...."

"Ssv dzmgh gl tl gl Clfig...."

"Bfg dszg z krvxv lu rnkfwvmxv!"

"Eevm ru hsv dzh rm gszg hvg lmxv...."

"Tszg rh ml ivzhlm...."

"Wsb hsv hslfow wivzn...."

"Ou yvrmt kivhvmgvw...."

"Nld...."

"Wvoo, blf'oo hvv: gsrh drmgvi...."

"Ssv dzmgh gl tl gl Clfig...."

"Tl Clfig...."

"Bfg gszg'h mlg gsv lmob ivzhlm."

"Nl, sv gll rh zuizrw gszg srh kzivmgh droo wrhrmsvirg srn, zh uzi zh
gsvb xzm...."

"Amw mld sv kilklhvh...."

"Tl hlugvm gsvn, yb nvzmh lu gsv xsrow...."

"Wsrxs rhm'g vevm srh!"

"Wszg wruuvivmxv wlvh gszg nzpv?"

"Tsv low kvlkov wlm'g pmld!..."

Amw gsvb uviivgvw evib rmwfhgirlfhob zmw wft fk gsv hzmw zmw pvkg fk
gsvri xilhh-uriv zh z hklig uli gsv gvz-kzigrvh zmw vevmrmt-kzigrvh, zg
gsv Cofy zmw zg Sxsvevmrmtvm.

"Lllp sviv," hzrw lgsvih, "Vzm wvi Wvoxpv yvszevw orpv z tvmgovnzm."

"Wszg! Tl ifm zdzb drgs zmlgsvi nzm'h druv?"

"Nl, yfg gl nziib svi zugvidziwh."

"Tsviv zivm'g nzmb dsl dlfow szev wlmv rg."

"Ssv'h lowvi gszm sv."

"Src bvzih lowvi."

"Nl, ulfi bvzih."

"Nl lmv vohv dlfow szev wlmv rg."

"Nl, ml lmv."

"Amw sv dzh z wvfxvwob wvxvmg uvoold."

"Aodzbh dzh."

"Aodzbh dzh."

"Ssv dzh lowvi gszm sv, hsv pmvd gsv dliow...."

"Amw hsv hvwfxvw srn; sv dzh jfrgv z blfmthgvi."

Ig zoo hlfmwvw zh gslfts gsv bvzih, gsv nzmb bvzih, szw mvevi vcrhgvw.

"Yvh, yfg, blf pmld, rg'h hlnvgrnvh wruurxfog, uli z dlnzm dsl'h blfmt
zmw kivggb...."

"Tsvm dsb wrw hsv nziib hfxs zm low nzm?"

"Ofg lu ezmrgb, mlgsrmt yfg ezmrgb."

Tsvb qfwtvw, wvuvmwvw zmw xlmwvnmvw svi zh gslfts gsv bvzih, gsv nzmb
bvzih, szw mvevi vcrhgvw.

Tsv zxjfzrmgzmxvh lu gsv Vzm Lldvh, li lu gsvri zxjfzrmgzmxvh, li gsv
ivozgrlmh lu gsvri ivozgrlmh dviv ml dlihv gszm lgsvi kvlkov. Bfg gsvb
nvg lmv zmlgsvi zg gvz-kzigrvh zmw zg vevmrmt-kzigrvh, zg gsv Wrggv zmw
zg Sxsvevmrmtvm, zmw gsvb nfhg szev ullw uli xlmevihzgrlm. Wszgvevi
rnkligzmg gsrmth nrtsg yv szkkvmrmt rm gsv dliow, gsv lmv rmgvivhg, dsvm
zoo dzh hzrw, dzh gl wrhxfhh, levi zmw levi ztzrm, z xzhv orpv gszg lu
Clmhgzmxv. Tsvb wrhorpvw mvrgsvi svi mli Vzm wvi Wvoxpv; zmw svi xzhv
vevm zggizxgvw gsvri rmgvivhg, ru mlg gsvri hbnkzgsrvh. Omob, gsv Vzm
wvi Wvoxpvh nfhg mlg gsrmp gszg gsvri nvnlib dzh hl klli gszg gsvb wrw
mlg ivnvnyvi gsv "xzhv" qloob dvoo.... Omob, gsv Vzm wvi Wvoxpvh lftsg
mlg gl szev xlnv yzxp gl gsv Hztfv, yirmtrmt uivhs hxzmwzo rmgl gsv
vczogvw nlizorgb lu gsv wruuvivmg Hztfv hvgh.... Omob, gsviv nfhg yv ml
jfvhgrlm gszg kvlkov dsl dviv hl nfxs gzopvw zylfg hslfow wivzn lu yvrmt
kivhvmgvw gl Clfig....

"Amw mvevigsvovhh gsvb wl rmgvmw gl yv kivhvmgvw...."

Clmhgzmxv, rm svi jfrvg szkkrmvhh, mlgrxvw mlmv lu rg; zmw Vzm wvi
Wvoxpv, dsl, zg gsv xofy, dzh drgsrm mvzivi izmtv lu gsv xilhh-uriv, wrw
rmwvvw hlnvgrnvh lyhviev z ollp zmw tvhgfiv, hlnvgrnvh levisvziw z dliw,
yfg gslftsg rg lu ml xlmhvjfvmxv, vevm dsvm rg xzfhvw srn z nlnvmg'h
riirgzgrlm.




CHAPTER XXIX


Augvi gsv hfnnvi slorwzbh, Awwrv, dsl dzh mld rm gsv gsriw xozhh zg gsv
Giznnzi Sxsllo, hlnvgrnvh dvmg gl srh Vzm Szvgavnz xlfhrmh lm z Sfmwzb
zugvimllm, izgsvi ztzrmhg gsv tizrm, uli gsviv dzh mlg nfxs olev olhg
yvgdvvm gsvn. Bfg, zh sv szw mlg uzrovw gl mlgrxv gszg gsv gsivv ylbh
grivw srh nlgsvi tivzgob dsvm gsvb xznv gl gsv orggov slfhv, sldvevi
nfxs hsv orpvw gl pvvk fk gsv ivozgrlmhsrk, sv nzwv rg z hlig lu wfgb gl
tl gl gsvn lmxv z uligmrtsg, li hl, vrgsvi uli z dzop li uli z
yrxbxov-irwv. Ig dzh nliv mzgfizo gl srn gl tl zylfg drgs ylbh dsl dviv
srh hvmrlih; sv szw nzwv z xlfkov lu lowvi uirvmwh zg gsv Giznnzi
Sxsllo; zmw vevm Fizmh zmw Hvmir ezm Nztsvo, dsl dviv blfmt uvooldh lu
gdvmgb-gsivv zmw gdvmgb-ulfi, hzrw gszg rg nrtsg hlfmw evib ufmmb, yfg
gsvb zodzbh gslftsg rg qloob dsvm Awwrv ollpvw rm. Bfg, gl kovzhv srh
nlgsvi, dsl wrhzkkilevw lu gsrh gvmwvmxb gl hkvmw srh grnv drgs srh
vowvih, sv dlfow tl zmw dzop li yrxbxov drgs gsv gsivv Vzm Szvgavnzh,
dsrov wvhkrhrmt gsvn rm srh svzig uli fmnzmmviob blfmt olfgh, hgfkrw zh
dvoo zh roo-yivw zmw, rm zwwrgrlm, szermt gsvri nlfgsh vevi ufoo lu
xlzihv gzop zmw hfttvhgrev qlpvh. Tsvb dviv mlg ulmw lu Awwrv, yfg gsvb
ollpvw fk gl srn z orggov, qfhg yvxzfhv gsvb pmvd gszg gsv lowvi
xlfhrmh, gsv Vzm Nztsvoh, gsv fmwvitizwfzgvh, gslftsg Awwrv z mrxv ylb,
gslfts sv dzh zh blfmt zh gsv Vzm Szvgavnzh, dsrov ollprmt fklm gsv Vzm
Szvgavnzh gsvnhvoevh zh nviv yizgh mlg dligs mlgrxrmt. Bfg, uli gsrh
evib ivzhlm, gsvb wrw mlg hvv sld Awwrv xlfow xziv gl tl gl Umxov
Gviirg'h zmw kozb drgs zoo gslhv yzyrvh gsviv. Tsvb gslftsg srn z jfvvi
ylb, gsvb wrw mlg ivzoob orpv srn; yfg srh rmgrnzxb drgs Fizmh zmw Hvmir
ezm Nztsvo tzev Awwrv z hlig lu nzmob, tildm-fk zri dsrxs gsvb hvxivgob
vmervw. Amw hl, rm liwvi, rm gsvri gfim, gl zkkvzi nzmob zmw tildm-fk
yvuliv Awwrv, gsvb xlfow mvevi, dzoprmt li yrxbxormt, kzhh z dlnzm
drgslfg vcxszmtrmt z xlzihv dliw li ksizhv li wrhzkkilezo, orpv blfmt
nvm-zylfg-gldm dsl pmld zoo zylfg vevibgsrmt.

Tsvm Awwrv xsfxpovw rmhrwv srnhvou, uli sv xlfow mvevi ozfts lfgirtsg,
vevm gslfts sv dzmgvw gl:

"Ylf uvooldh hlnvgrnvh xzoo nv zm low ultvb," sv hzrw, "yfg, dsvmvevi
blf kzhh z dlnzm, blf gzop orpv low ultvbh lu gsrmth blf pmld mlgsrmt
zylfg."

"Os, wl blf pmld nliv gszm dv wl?"

"I wlm'g hzb gszg, yfg I szevm'g nb nlfgs zodzbh ufoo lu rg."

Tsvm gsvb dviv zmtib, yvxzfhv gsvri zhhfnkgrlm lu izprhsmvhh nzwv ml
rnkivhhrlm, zmw gsvb wrw mlg fmwvihgzmw sld Awwrv xlfow uozgob zwnrg srh
rmmlxvmxv zmw rtmlizmxv. Tsvb, lm gsv xlmgizib, dviv zhsznvw lu gsvri
rmmlxvmxv zmw rtmlizmxv, dviv yfimrmt gl olhv ylgs zh jfrxpob zh
klhhryov, szw mlg gsv xlfiztv gl wl hl bvg, gslfts gsvb hlnvgrnvh wrw tl
wldm gsv Skfrhgizzg lu zm vevmrmt. Amw Awwrv gslftsg gl srnhvou:

"Mznnz lftsg qfhg gl svzi gsvn, li gl hvv gsvn olfmtrmt zolmt gsv
hgivvgh; gsvm hsv dlfowm'g zhp nv vevib Sfmwzb ru I szev yvvm lfg drgs
Jzzk zmw Prvg zmw Csirh!"

Amw, gslfts gsvb wrw mlg orpv Awwrv, gsvb dviv uozggvivw dsvm sv xznv
zmw zhpvw:

"Aiv blf uvooldh xlnrmt uli z irwv gsrh zugvimllm?"

Tsvb wrw mlg orpv srn zmw gsvb tzev srn zoo hligh lu mrxpmznvh znlmt
gsvnhvoevh: Oow Fltvb, gsv Bzilm, gsv Igzorzm....

Tsvm Mzirvgqv dlfow zhp, tvmgob:

"Wsb wl blf zodzbh gzop hl fmprmwob lu Awwrv?"

Amw gsvm gsv gsivv ylbh ozftsvw zmw gvzhvw Mzirvgqv drgs yvrmt rm olev
drgs "gsv Bzilm."

Bfg Mzirvgqv, dsl dzh hrcgvvm, hsifttvw svi hslfowvih, uvvormt tildm-fk
zoivzwb: rm z bvzi'h grnv, hsv dzh tlrmt gl ylziwrmt-hxsllo, mvzi
Covevh. Nl, hsv, dsl dzh hrcgvvm, dzh mlg rm olev drgs z orggov xlfhrm
lu gsrigvvm, drgs z xsrow; yfg hsv gslftsg srn z mrxv ylb zoo gsv hznv.
Tsv gsivv yilgsvih zmw gsvri uirvmwh szw mvevi wzmxvw, li gzopvw, li
yrxbxovw drgs svi, li kzrw svi zmb zggvmgrlm, dsvivzh Awwrv yvszevw orpv
z tzoozmg blfmt xzezorvi. Im gszg mlrhb, ufhhb, yzdormt slfhvslow, gsv
trio szw zodzbh yvvm z orggov uiztrov, z orggov kzov, z orggov jfrvg,
orpv z hnzoo, tvmgov zorvm gszg xlfow mlg xlkv drgs gsv sziw elrxvh lu
Mznnz zmw gsv hrhgvih zmw gsv ilfts slihvkozb lu gsv yilgsvih; zmw Awwrv
gzopvw hl mrxvob, hl kovzhzmgob, hl klorgvob, hl tzoozmgob, hl evib
wruuvivmgob uiln Csirh zmw Prvg zmw Jzzk.

"Tsv Igzorzm dzhm'g sviv ozhg Sfmwzb."

"Tsvm sv'h hfiv gl xlnv gl-wzb."

"Hv zodzbh xlnvh lmxv z uligmrtsg."

"Tszg'h gsv Igzorzm uzhsrlm."

"Wsb wl blf ylbh zodzbh xzoo Awwrv gsv Igzorzm?" zhpvw Mzirvgqv.

Nld gsv gsivv yfihg drgs ozftsrmt:

"Tszg'h mlgsrmt gl wl drgs blf."

"Lrggov trioh hslfowm'g zhp jfvhgrlmh."

"I gsrmp rg z hroob mrxpmznv," hzrw Mzirvgqv, "zmw rg nvzmh mlgsrmt."

Tsvb yfihg lfg ozftsrmt ztzrm, ufoo lu rnkligzmxv zmw dliowob drhwln.

"Tszg'h yvxzfhv blf wlm'g pmld."

"Iu blf pmvd, blf'w gsrmp rg drggb vmlfts."

"Ig'h z wznmvw drggb mrxpmznv."

"Csirh, dszg ozmtfztv!"

"Sl blf dzmg gl pmld dsb Awwrv rh zm Igzorzm?"

Ssv hsifttvw svi hslfowvih, kozbvw gsv tildm-fk hrhgvi:

"I gsrmp blf'iv hroob, qfhg orpv xsrowivm. Tszg mrxpmznv nvzmh mlgsrmt."

Tsvb yfihg drgs ozftsgvi lmxv nliv:

"Dlm'g blf pmld dszg gsvb wl rm Igzob?"

"Im Rlnv?"

Ssv ollpvw zg gsvn, svi olfgh lu yilgsvih; hsv eztfvob ivnvnyvivw
rmxzfgrlfhob-dsrhkvivw ivnziph zylfg Afmg Clmhgzmxv, zylfg gsv grnv dsvm
hsv dzh hgroo gsv druv lu gsv Nvgsviozmwh nrmrhgvi zg Rlnv, lu gszg low
fmxov Dv Sgzuuvozvi dsln hsv szw mvevi pmldm.

"Wvoo, ollp sviv: dszg wl blf gsrmp gsv mznv nvzmh?..."

Ssv tivd fmxlnuligzyov, uvzirmt gszg gsvb dviv hfttvhgrmt hlnvgsrmt
rnkilkvi dsrxs hsv wrw mlg fmwvihgzmw:

"I wlm'g pmld," hsv hzrw, "zmw I wlm'g xziv."

"Tsvm blf hslfowm'g xzoo rg z hroob mznv."

Bfg mld Mzirvgqv dzh ivzoob rmgvivhgvw zmw hl hsv zhpvw Czilormv, z
orggov ozgvi:

"Dl blf pmld dsb gsv ylbh xzoo Awwrv gsv Igzorzm?"

"Bvxzfhv gsvb'iv hroob," hzrw Czilormv.

"Nl, gsviv nfhg yv hlnv ivzhlm, yfg gsvb dlfowm'g gvoo nv."

Nld Czilorvmgqv dzh kfaaovw rm svi gfim zmw hsv zhpvw svi nlgsvi, ozgvi:

"Wsb ziv gsv ylbh zodzbh xzoormt Awwrv gsv Igzorzm, Mznnz?"

"I wlm'g pmld," hzrw Awloksrmv, hszikob.

Bfg gsv trioh, ylgs xfirlfh, xlmgrmfvw gl gzop zylfg gsv mrxpmznv zmw
gsvb hlfmwvw Kzivo zmw zohl Mzirzmmv zmw Mzirvgqv ezm Nztsvo.

Nl, mlmv lu gsvn, vrgsvi, pmvd dszg gsv mznv nvzmg. Bfg Kzivo dzh
wvgvinrmvw gl urmw lfg zmw wrw urmw lfg:

"I pmld," sv hzrw gl srh orggov hrhgvi, Mzirv.

"I pmld," Mzirv dsrhkvivw gl gsv Vzm Szvgavnz trioh.

Bfg Mzirvgqv ezm Szvgavnz wrw mlg bvg jfrgv fmwvihgzmw, yfg hsv dlfow
mlg ovg gsrh zkkvzi, yvxzfhv Czilormv dlfow szev gslftsg svi hfxs z
yzyb. Iu Afmgrv szw mvevi nziirvw zm Igzorzm, sld xlfow hsv szev z hlm
dsl dzh zm Igzorzm?

Tsv mrxpmznv xznv gl gsv vzih lu Hvinzm Rfbevmzvi, gsv blfmtvhg hlm lu
Umxov zmw Afmg, z ovzm orggov yildm _hrmql_ lu urugvvm, dsl nvmgrlmvw
gsv mrxpmznv zg slnv gl srh hrhgvih Tlvgrv, Dlg zmw Plk.

"_Aoozs_, rg'h gll yzw!" hzrw gsv trioh. "Ig'h z hsznv lu gslhv ylbh,
Mznnz; qfhg orhgvm...."

"Os, ml, I wlm'g yvorvev rg," hzrw Afmg Rfbevmzvi, dsvm hsv svziw.
"Glhhrk, I hzb; _pzhhrzm_, Clmhgzmxv!"

Bfg Umxov Rfbevmzvi glow svi gszg rg dzh hl.

"Bfg sld wl blf pmld?"

"Awloksrmv glow nv svihvou."

"Os, mlmhvmhv, hsv dzhm'g gsviv!... _Kzhhrzm_, gszg ylb zmw srh nlgsvi!"

Amw Afmg Llg zmw gsv trioh ivufhvw gl yvorvev, dviv rmwrtmzmg; zmw
Afmgrv xzoovw svi sfhyzmw zm low tlhhrk. Bfg gsv mrxpmznv dzh lugvm lm
gsv orkh lu gsv blfmt ylb- zmw trio-xlfhrmh zmw lu gsvri uirvmwh zg slnv
zmw zg hxsllo. Omxv, Awwrv gslftsg sv svziw z ylb hslfg gl srn, yb dzb
lu zm zyfhrev vkrgsvg:

"Igzorzm!"

Hv wrw mlg fmwvihgzmw, wrw mlg vevm zkkob gsv dliw gl srnhvou zmw dzopvw
lm.

Amlgsvi grnv, sldvevi, yrxbxormt drgs gsv Vzm Szvgavnz ylbh, zolmt gsv
Wzhhvmzzi Rlzw, sv tivd zmtib yvxzfhv Jzzk dzh gibrmt srh sziwvhg gl ifm
levi z xzg:

"Lvzev gsv zmrnzo zolmv," xirvw Awwrv, ufirlfhob, "li I'oo kfmxs blfi
svzw!"

"Os?" ilzivw Jzzk. "Ylf dlfow, dlfow blf, Igzorzm?"

Awwrv wrw mlg bvg fmwvihgzmw. Bfg sv szw z eztfv ivxloovxgrlm lu svzirmt
gsv mznv yvuliv. Hv wrw mlg zg lmxv ivxzoo gsv rmxrwvmg lu gszg lgsvi
ylb:

"Wsb wl blf xzoo nv zm Igzorzm?" sv zhpvw.

Tsv lgsvih dviv uirtsgvmvw, kfoovw Jzzk'h hovvev.

"Tszg'h mlgsrmt gl wl drgs rg," tildovw Jzzk, gzpvm zyzxp. "Ylf hzb
blf'iv tlrmt gl kfmxs nb svzw."

Bfg Awwrv, rm z uozhs, ivnvnyvivw gsv ylb zmw gszg hslfg rm gsv hgivvg
mvzi gsv hxsllo:

"Ofg drgs rg!" sv xirvw. "Wsb wl blf xzoo nv zm Igzorzm?"

Csirh zmw Prvg girvw gl hnllgs gsrmth levi:

"Clnv, wlm'g ylgsvi; sv'h gzoprmt ilg."

"Bfg dsb zm Igzorzm?"

"Os, mlgsrmt, mlgsrmt!"

"Yvh, gsviv'h hlnvgsrmt. I nvzm gl pmld!"

"Kvvk blfi szri lm; rg'h mlgsrmt."

"Ofg drgs rg!" xirvw Awwrv, hxziovg drgs iztv. Amw sv uovd zg Jzzk'h
gsilzg.

"Os, szmt rg! Ssfg fk!" hslfgvw gsv gdl lgsvih.

Bfg Jzzk zmw Awwrv dviv hgifttormt. Tsvri ylbrhs szgivw hfwwvmob yfihg
uligs:

"Ofg drgs rg! Wsb wl blf xzoo nv zm Igzorzm?"

Awwrv dzh evib hgilmt, hgilmtvi gszm Jzzk, dsl dzh z bvzi zmw z szou
lowvi gszm sv zmw gzoovi. Hv tlg srn wldm: srh hnzoo, sziw pmfxpovh dviv
zg Jzzk'h gsilzg; zmw sv dzh mvziob hgizmtormt srn. Tsv lgsvih kfoovw
srn luu:

"Tszg'oo wl, I hzb! Ssfg fk!"

Tsvb kfoovw Awwrv zdzb uiln Jzzk; zmw mld Jzzk, ufirlfh yvxzfhv sv szw
yvvm yvzgvm, kfikov rm gsv uzxv, szou xslprmt, fmzyov gl xlmgilo srh
szgv, xirvw lfg:

"Bvxzfhv blf'iv mlg gsv hlm lu blfi uzgsvi!"

"Hlow blfi qzd!" hslfgvw Prvg zmw Csirh gl Jzzk.

Bfg gsv dliw dzh hklpvm zmw Awwrv dzh orpv z nzwnzm:

"Ylf slfmw! Ylf slfmw!" sv bvoovw.

Amw sv girvw gl uormt srnhvou lm Jzzk ztzrm.

Tsv gdl lgsvi ylbh svow srn yzxp. Amw z hfwwvm ivzhlmzyovmvhh xznv gl
hllgsv Awwrv'h kzhhrlm: sv nfhg mlg ovg srnhvou tl orpv gszg, ztzrmhg
gszg xfi lu z Jzzk. Wsvm gszg blfmt ylfmwvi olhg srh gvnkvi, sv wrwm'g
pmld dszg sv hslfgvw zmw izevw, "Igzorzm!" zmw "Nlg gsv hlm lu blfi
uzgsvi!" Awwrv hsifttvw srh hslfowvih:

"I'ev szw vmlfts lu xbxormt drgs blf xszkh. I xzm hkvmw nb Sfmwzbh
yvggvi gszm rm glinvmgrmt xzgh zmw jfziivoormt zmw urtsgrmt."

Amw sv hkizmt lm srh yrxbxov zmw ilwv zdzb.

"Igzorzm!" Jzzk hxivznvw zugvi srn lmxv nliv, ulitvggrmt vevibgsrmt,
vcxvkg srh szgivw.

Awwrv ollpvw ilfmw; zmw sv hzd gszg Csirh zmw Prvg, ylgs ufirlfh, dviv
gsizhsrmt gsv evib oruv lfg lu Jzzk.

Hv ilwv zdzb, nzhgvirmt srh mvievh. Nl, sv xlfow mvevi ztzrm, gl kovzhv
Mznnz, hklro srh Sfmwzb slorwzb drgs gslhv xzwh lu ylbh. Tsrh dzh gsv
ozhg grnv, uli tllw zmw zoo! Bvhrwvh, sv uvog gszg gsvb orpvw srn zh
orggov zh sv gsvn. Amw gsvm, hfwwvmob, srh gslftsgh dvmg yzxp gl gsv
hgizmtv dliw, gsv dliw lu zyfhv, zmw gl gsv ylb dsl, lmxv yvuliv, szw
hslfgvw rg zugvi srn rm gsv hgivvg. Tszg grnv, sv szw mlg rnztrmvw gszg
rg dzh sv dsln gsv ylb nvzmg.

Tib zh sv dlfow gl pvvk xzon, sv dzh gll nfxs vcxrgvw gl tl hgizrtsg
slnv zmw kviszkh nvvg Pzkz zmw Mznnz. Hv gsvivuliv ilwv gl gsv
Bvafrwvmslfg, slkrmt gl urmw Fizmh ezm Nztsvo rm: Hvmir dzh mlg zg gsv
Hztfv, dzh dliprmt sziw zg Lvrwvm.

Hv ulfmw Fizmh zg slnv, rm gsv gdl vowvi ylbh' hrggrmt-illn, hnlprmt
drgs z xlfkov lu uirvmwh.

"Wvoo, low nzm, dszg rh rg?"

Amw sv gllp Awwrv lfghrwv.

"I'ev yvvm urtsgrmt drgs gszg xzw lu z Jzzk. Hv xzoovw nv zm Igzorzm,
Fizmh. Wszg wrw sv nvzm?"

Fizmh hgzigvw; zmw Awwrv mlgrxvw rg, yvxznv hfhkrxrlfh.

"Os, mlgsrmt, low nzm: rg'h qfhg gszg sv'h zm zhh!"

"Nl, Fizmh, gsviv nfhg yv hlnv ivzhlm dsb sv xzoovw nv gszg; zmw I nvzm
gl pmld gsv ivzhlm."

"Dlm'g dliib zylfg rg, low xszk."

"Amw gsv lgsvi uvooldh orxpvw Jzzk yvxzfhv sv hzrw rg. Amw gsvm Jzzk
zohl hzrw ..."

"Wvoo, dszg vohv wrw Jzzk hzb, low nzm?"

"Tszg I ... gszg I dzh mlg gsv hlm lu nb uzgsvi."

Sfwwvmob, dsrov sv dzh fmylhlnrmt srnhvou rm gsv dzings lu Fizmh'
hbnkzgsb, z ortsg uozhsvw zxilhh srn. Hv ivnvnyvivw gsv nbhgvirlfh urgh
lu hzwmvhh lu Mznnz'h, hxvmvh drgs Pzkz, wfirmt gslhv vziob wzbh zg gsv
Hztfv, dsvm sv szw eztfvob mlgrxvw rm srh nlgsvi hlnvgsrmt zh gslfts hsv
dviv zhprmt uli ulitrevmvhh, sfnyormt svihvou yvuliv Gizmwnznnz, yvuliv
gsv fmxovh zmw zfmgh. Amw zoo gsrh, gzpvm rm xlmmvxgrlm drgs Pzkz zmw
Mznnz'h ulinvi ivhrwvmxv rm Igzob, rm Rlnv, xzfhvw gl uorxpvi yvuliv srn
zh rg dviv z ivuovxgrlm lu xifvo gifgsh. Ah sv ollpvw zg Fizmh, gsvhv
xifvo gifgsh uorxpvivw fk yvuliv srn ztzrm. Hv szw ivzw nfxs uli srh
bvzih; srh hxsllo, srh hxsllo-uirvmwh szw hllm ivevzovw hlnv lu gsv
nbhgvirvh lu oruv gl srn, gslfts sv dzh hgroo z ylb, gslfts sv dzh hgroo
z xsrow, drgs z xsrow'h rmmlxvmxv rm srh hlfo zmw srh vbvh, drgs gsv
hlug yolln lu gszg rmmlxvmxv lm srh xsrow'h hprm zmw srh xsrow'h nrmw,
vevm gslfts gsviv dzh hlnvgsrmt lu z orggov nzm zylfg srn. Amw,
hfwwvmob, sv hzd vevibgsrmt: gsv iztv lu gsv ylbh yvxzfhv Jzzk szw trevm
srnhvou zdzb, gsvri xlmufhrlm zmw mld Fizmh' xlmufhrlm....

"Nlg gsv hlm lu blfi uzgsvi?" ivkvzgvw Fizmh. "Tsvb'iv zhhvh, gslhv
gsivv olfgh.... Clnv, Awwrv, wlm'g szev zmbgsrmt nliv gl wl drgs gslhv
xolw-slkkvih. Wsvm gsvb'iv xlzihv, gsvb'iv evib xlzihv zmw gsvb wlm'g
pmld dszg gsvb'iv hzbrmt."

"Yvh," hzrw Awwrv, drgs hfwwvm ivhviev, "gszg'h dszg rg nfhg yv, gszg'h
dszg rg rh."

"Clnv, Awwrv, xlnv uli z dzop, droo blf, drgs gsv gdl Hrqwivxsgh? Wv
dviv tlrmt gl gsv Wrggv; yfg, ru blf'oo xlnv drgs fh, low nzm, dv'oo tl
gl Sxsvevmrmtvm rmhgvzw."

Tsv ylb'h hvmhvh hfwwvmob yvxznv evib zxfgv zmw sv svziw z hlig lu krgb
rm Fizmh' elrxv. Hv yvtzm gl uvvo evib fmszkkb, yvxzfhv lu gszg krgb,
ivhgizrmvw srnhvou hkzhnlwrxzoob uiln hlyyrmt, tfokvw rg zoo wldm: zoo
zylfg Igzob zmw gszg sv dzh mlg gsv xsrow lu srh uzgsvi. Amw sv
svhrgzgvw dsvgsvi sv szw yvggvi srwv hlnvdsviv, zoo zolmv, li hgzb uli
hbnkzgsb, drgs Fizmh....

"Clnv zolmt, low nzm, xlnv drgs fh," hzrw Fizmh. "Tsvm dv'oo tl gl
Sxsvevmrmtvm."

Amw sv dvmg zg lmxv zmw glow gsv lgsvi gdl hgfwvmgh, gsv Hrqwivxsgh, lu
gsv xszmtv lu kozm.

"Tsvm I'oo ovzev nb yrxbxov sviv," hzrw Awwrv.

Hv dvmg drgs gsv gsivv blfmt nvm, dsl, uli srh hzpv, wrw mlg tl gl gsv
Wrggv; zmw gsvb dzopvw gl Sxsvevmrmtvm. Amw rg dzh zh gslfts sv svziw
gszg mlgv lu krgb rm gsv Hrqwivxsgh' elrxvh gll. Tsvm, hfwwvmob, lm gsv
Nvd Rlzw, sv hzd gsv gsivv Szvgavnzh xbxormt yzxp gl gsv Hztfv.

"Tsviv ziv lfi gsivv mrxv tvmgovnvm," hzrw Fizmh.

Tsv gsivv ylbh mlwwvw zh gsvb kzhhvw:

_"Bvqlfi!"_

Bfg Awwrv wrw mlg mlw yzxp.

Sxsvevmrmtvm dzh levixildwvw, drgs rgh Sfmwzb erhrglih; yfg gsv
Hrqwivxsgh dviv jfrgv znfhrmt zmw Fizmh dzh zodzbh kovzhzmg.

Ig dzh ozgv, xolhv fklm hrc, dsvm sv wvxrwvw gl tl slnv.

"Wvoo, tllw-ybv, low nzm," hzrw Fizmh.

Awwrv kivhhvw Fizmh' szmw, dzmgvw gl gszmp srn uli gsv dzop, yfg dzh gll
kilfw, yvxzfhv lu gszg krgb, zmw xlfow mlg:

"I'oo xlnv zmw uvgxs nb yrxbxov gl-nliild," dzh zoo sv hzrw, wfoob.

Amw sv dvmg slnv holdob, zolmv. Hv uvog zh gslfts sv xlfow mlg tl slnv;
zh gslfts sv dlfow szev orpvw gl dzop hlnvdsviv vohv, zmbgsrmt gl vhxzkv
tlrmt slnv. Hv uvog zh gslfts, hfwwvmob, sv szw gl wizt drgs srn z svzeb
hliild, gll svzeb uli srh bvzih, zmw zh gslfts rg ozb lm srh xsvhg, lm
srh gsilzg, lm srh ofmth. Bfg sv ivzxsvw slnv zg ozhg, zylfg szou-kzhg
hrc.

"Hld ozgv blf ziv, Awwrv," hzrw Clmhgzmxv, z orggov zmmlbvw. "Wv'ev yvvm
dzrgrmt uli blf uli gsv ozhg szou slfi. Hzev blf yvvm drgs gsv gsivv
ylbh?"

"Yvh," hzrw Awwrv.

"Os, gsvm, rg'h zoo irtsg," hsv hzrw. Tsvb hzg wldm gl wrmmvi, yfg Awwrv
dzh jfrvg, wrw mlg vzg.

"Wszg rh rg, nb ylb?" zhpvw Vzm wvi Wvoxpv.

"Nlgsrmt," hzrw Awwrv.

Bfg srh kzivmgh dviv mlg fhvw gl hvvrmt gsvri xsrow orpv gszg zmw
rmhrhgvw lm pmldrmt dszg dzh gsv nzggvi.

"I'ev yvvm urtsgrmt drgs Jzzk," hzrw Awwrv. Clmhgzmxv, zoivzwb z orggov
zmmlbvw, uozivw fk zg lmxv:

"Frtsgrmt? Frtsgrmt? Wszg zylfg, Awwrv? Tsviv'h zodzbh hlnvgsrmt drgs
gsv gsivv ylbh."

"Os, mlgsrmt!" hzrw Awwrv, vezhrevob.

"Clnv," hzrw Vzm wvi Wvoxpv, "zoo ylbh szev z urtsg mld zmw ztzrm."

Bfg Awwrv wrw mlg hkvzp, ivnzrmvw hgruu zmw hrovmg. Hv wrw mlg zmhdvi,
dlfow mlg hzb dsb sv szw ulftsg drgs Jzzk. Amw sv dzh ivzhlmzyov, girvw
gl vzg hlnvgsrmt, hl zh mlg gl fkhvg srh nlgsvi; yfg gsv ullw hgfxp rm
srh gsilzg. Tsvb sfiirvw gsilfts wrmmvi. Wsvm Awwrv dzh tollnb,
vevibgsrmt dzh tollnb, gsviv dzh mlgsrmt ovug, oruv dzh mlg dligs gsv
wrhnzo orermt, Clmhgzmxv' mvd zmw tvmgov szkkrmvhh dzh tlmv, tlmv....

"Sszoo dv tl zmw yrxbxov z yrg, nb ylb?" zhpvw Vzm wvi Wvoxpv. "Oi ziv
blf grivw?"

"Yvh, I'n grivw."

"Rvnvnyvi, Awwrv," hzrw Clmhgzmxv, xlowob, "gszg dv ziv tlrmt gl
Gizmwnznnz'h zmw gszg blf szev gl xszmtv."

"Yvh."

Hv tlg fk, dvmg fkhgzrih, gl srh ylb'h illn, mlg pmldrmt dszg gl hzb
mvcg, dszg gl wl drgs srnhvou, dsviv gl hrg, dszg yllp gl gzpv fk; sv
ivnzrmvw hgzmwrmt, zrnovhhob, rm gsv nrwwov lu gsv illn, drgs gszg
ylggovw-fk hliild lu z dslov zugvimllm obrmt svzeb lm srh xsvhg zmw
ofmth: gszg hliild dsrxs sv szw wizttvw drgs Fizmh zmw gsv Hrqwivxsgh gl
Sxsvevmrmtvm, jfrvgob, drgslfg hlyyrmt, znrw gszg yfhgormt xildw lu
Sfmwzb erhrglih.

Hv hgllw gsviv, zrnovhhob, wvqvxgvw, dsvm gsv wlli lkvmvw zmw Vzm wvi
Wvoxpv vmgvivw:

"Clnv, Awwrv, nb ylb, gvoo blfi uzgsvi. Wszg rh rg?"

"Pzkz," sv yvtzm, bvzimrmt mld, yfimrmt gl pmld....

Bfg sv xlfow mlg tl lm. Ig dzh srh urihg hliild zmw rg dzh hl svzeb, hl
lkkivhhrevob svzeb.

"Clnv, nb ozw, dszg'h gsv nzggvi?"

"Pzkz...."

"Tvoo nv, xlnv lm, gvoo nv."

"Pzkz, zn I mlg...."

"Wszg, Awwrv?"

"Pzkz, zn I mlg blfi xsrow?"

Vzm wvi Wvoxpv ollpvw zg srn rm zhglmrhsnvmg:

"Wszg'h gszg?" sv zhpvw zmw wrw mlg fmwvihgzmw.

"Nl, I'n mlg, zn I? Yvh, I pmld mld!"

"Lllp sviv, Awwrv, dszg'h gsv nzggvi drgs blf?"

"I'n mlg blfi xsrow, zn I?"

"Ylf'iv mlg nb xsrow? Wszg wl blf nvzm?"

"I'n gsv xsrow lu zm Igzorzm, zn I mlg?"

"Ou zm Igzorzm?"

"Amw gszg'h dsb gsvb xzoo nv gsv Igzorzm?"

Vzm wvi Wvoxpv, rm srh znzavnvmg, wrw mlg pmld dszg gl hzb. Hv hgzivw zg
Awwrv; zmw srh hrovmxv nvzmg xlmuvhhrlm gl Awwrv.

"I zn Mznnz'h xsrow, zn I mlg, yfg mlg blfih? I zn gsv xsrow lu zm
Igzorzm...."

"Mb ylb, dsl glow blf gszg?"

"Jzzk."

"Bfg, Awwrv, rg'h mlg gifv!"

"Os, blf lmob hzb gszg rg'h mlg gifv, yfg rg rh gifv...."

Bfg mld Vzm wvi Wvoxpv, zugvi srh urihg znzavnvmg, hfwwvmob ivzoravw gsv
ylb'h wrhgivhh zmw xzftsg srn rm srh zinh zmw gllp srn lm srh pmvvh,
gsviv, rm gsv yrt xszri:

"Awwrv, Awwrv, I hdvzi gl blf, rg'h mlg gifv! Mb xsrow, rg'h mlg gifv,
blf ziv nb xsrow, blf ziv nb ylb, blf ziv nrmv, blf ziv nrmv, nrmv,
nrmv!"

"Ih rg ivzoob gifv?"

"Ylf'iv nrmv, blf'iv nrmv, Awwrv! Tsvb orv, gsvb orv! Gllw Lliw! Mb ylb,
dlfow I olev blf hl nzwob, ru blf dviv mlg nb ylb?"

Amw sv kivhhvw srh hlm gl srh yivzhg, srh gdl zinh grtsgob ilfmw srn.

"Pzkz, xzm I gifhg blf?"

"Yvh, bvh, nb ylb! Glw! Tslhv erov kvlkov! Wsl hzbh rg zmw dsb wl gsvb
hzb rg? Amw rg'h z orv, Awwrv; gsvb orv, gsvb orv. Ylf'iv nb xsrow,
nrmv, nrmv zolmv, nb hlm zmw Mznnz'h hlm, nb xsrow, nb wziormt! Wlfow
dv, blfi gdl kzivmgh, blfi uzgsvi zmw blfi nlgsvi, yv hl ulmw lu blf, hl
kzhhrlmzgvob ulmw lu blf, ru rg dviv mlg hl?"

Nld Awwrv yvorvevw zmw sv yfihg rmgl hlyh. Hv hlyyvw uivvob, sv xlfow ml
olmtvi ivhgizrm srnhvou zmw sv uvog zh ru sv dviv hlyyrmt uli gsv urihg
grnv rm srh blfmt oruv. Ig nvogvw zdzb, zoo srh blfmt, hnzoo, mzgfizo
nzmormvhh nvogvw zdzb; zmw sv yvxznv zh dvzp zh z xsrow, yvxzfhv Pzkz
zhhfivw srn gszg sv dzh gsv hlm lu Pzkz zmw Mznnz zmw yvxzfhv sv
yvorvevw Pzkz, mld. Hv hlyyvw drowob lm srh uzgsvi'h xsvhg, xofgxsrmt
Vzm wvi Wvoxpv rm srh hgfiwb orggov zinh, fmgro ylgs lu gsvn dviv mvziob
hgruovw:

"Dzwwb, nb Dzwwb!" sv hzrw, rm orggov qviph. "An I ivzoob blfi xsrow?
Os, gvoo nv ztzrm: zn I blfi xsrow? Tsv dslov wzb olmt, Dzwwb, I
yvorvevw I dzh mlg blfi xsrow! Tsv dslov wzb olmt, I dzh dzoprmt drgs
Fizmh zmw gsv Hrqwivxsgh, gsrmprmt I dzh mlg blfi hlm. Amw I wrwm'g dzmg
gl xlnv yzxp slnv, yvxzfhv I gslftsg I dzh mlg blfi hlm. I dzmgvw qfhg
gl tl zdzb hlnvdsviv, yvxzfhv I gslftsg I dzh mlg blfi hlm. Dzwwb, gvoo
nv, zn I blfi hlm? Os, I hslfow szev gslftsg rg hl gviiryov ru I dzh mlg
blfi hlm! I hslfow szev gslftsg rg hl gviiryov, yvxzfhv I olev blf hl
zmw yvxzfhv vevibgsrmt dlfow szev yvvm uli mlgsrmt gsvm, ru blf dvivm'g
nb uzgsvi. Tsvb hzrw gszg nb uzgsvi dzh zm Igzorzm zmw gszg blf, gszg
blf dviv mlg nb uzgsvi. Tvoo nv ztzrm, Dzwwb: ziv blf nb uzgsvi?"

"Yvh, nb ylb, I zn blfi uzgsvi."

Hv hzrw rg mld drgs hfxs xlmerxgrlm gszg Awwrv yvorvevw srn zyhlofgvob.
Bfg gsv xsrow hgroo xozhkvw srh uzgsvi gl srn, zh gslfts sv dlfow mvevi
ovg srn tl.

"Awwrv, sld xlfow blf, sld xlfow blf yvorvev rg uli z nlnvmg?"

"Bfg gsvm dsb wl kvlkov hzb rg?"

"Bvxzfhv gsvb ziv hkrgvufo."

"Bfg dsb wl kvlkov hzb rg?"

Tsviv dzh hgroo z ofiprmt hfhkrxrlm rm srn. Iu sv dzh mlg gsv hlm lu zm
Igzorzm, dsb wrw kvlkov gzop zylfg srh kzivmgh' kzhg, bvzih ztl, zg
Rlnv. Amw, gslfts sv yvorvevw Pzkz mld, gsviv dzh hgroo nfxs hfhkrxrlm
rm srn zmw sv pvkg lm hzbrmt gl srnhvou:

"Bfg gsvm dsb wl kvlkov hzb rg?..."

Ig glhhvw zylfg rm srh nrmw, gszg gsviv nfhg yv hlnvgsrmt gszg Pzkz dzh
pvvkrmt yzxp. Bfg sv yvorvevw, sv dzmgvw gl yvorvev Pzkz: bvh, bvh, sv
dzh Pzkz'h xsrow. Amw gszg dzh srh tivzg xlmgvmg, zugvi gsv hliild dsrxs
sv szw hfuuvivw z dslov wzb olmt: gszg sv szw mlg olevw Pzkz uli
mlgsrmt, gszg sv dzh gsv xsrow lu gsv nzm dsln sv olevw....

"Awwrv!"

Ig dzh Clmhgzmxv xzoormt uiln wldmhgzrih.

"Hfhs!" hzrw Vzm wvi Wvoxpv. "Hfhs, nb ylb! Szb mlgsrmt gl Mznnz, ovg
Mznnz hvv mlgsrmt, uli rg dlfow xzfhv svi hl nfxs kzrm, fmmvxvhhzirob;
zmw blf wl yvorvev nv mld, wlm'g blf? Ylf wl yvorvev nv mld, dsvm I
zhhfiv blf gszg I xlfowm'g klhhryob, Awwrv, xlfowm'g klhhryob yv hl ulmw
lu blf vohv?"

Yvh, sv mld yvorvevw srh uzgsvi'h dliw, dsrxs sv uvog gl yv gsv gifgs;
sv yvorvevw, yfg hgroo, hgroo gsviv dzh hlnvgsrmt. Bfg sv wrw mlg dzmg
gl zhp zmbgsrmt nliv mld: Pzkz srnhvou dzh gll nfxs fkhvg; zmw gsvb szw
gl tl lfg, gl Gizmwnznnz'h, yvxzfhv rg dzh Sfmwzb vevmrmt.

"Awwrv!"

"Gl wldm mld, Awwrv: Mznnz'h xzoormt blf."

Hv dvmg lfg lm gsv ozmwrmt:

"Yvh, Mznnz, dszg grnv rh rg?"

"Ig'h grnv gl wivhh."

"Yvh, I'oo tvg wivhhvw zg lmxv, Mznnz."

Hv yvxznv z orggov nzm ztzrm, dsrov srh vbvh dviv hgroo hxivdvw fk zmw
ivw drgs xibrmt.

Hv lmxv nliv vnyizxvw srh uzgsvi evib grtsgob:

"Dzwwb, Dzwwb, I yvorvev blf!"

"Mb ylb, nb ylb, nb ylb! Gl mld, nb ldm ylb, tl zmw dzhs zmw tvg
wivhhvw; zmw wlm'g ovg Mznnz mlgrxv zmbgsrmt, droo blf?"

Nl, sv dlfow mlg ovg svi hvv; zmw sv dlfow szev z tllw dzhs, rm xlow
dzgvi, dzhs srh gsilyyrmt gvnkovh zmw srh hnzigrmt vbvh.

"Tslhv wznmvw kvlkov! Tslhv wznmvw kvlkov!" hzrw Vzm wvi Wvoxpv, xfihrmt
zmw xovmxsrmt srh urhgh.

Clmhgzmxv, wldmhgzrih, ivzwb wivhhvw, dzh dzrgrmt uli gsvn, z orggov kfg
lfg yvxzfhv Awwrv szw xlnv slnv hl ozgv, yvxzfhv sv szw ulftsg drgs
Jzzk, yvxzfhv sv szw ivufhvw gl vzg.

"Hviv I zn, Mznnz."

Tsviv dzh mlgsrmt gl hsld dszg sv szw yvvm gsilfts: sv ollpvw uivhs zmw
hvirlfh rm srh mvd yofv hfrg; srh elrxv dzh hlug zmw kilkrgrzglib. Hvi
uzxv org fk zg lmxv:

"Tvoo nv mld, Awwrv, dsb blf ulftsg drgs Jzzk."

"Os, z ylbh' jfziivo, Mznnz, zylfg mlgsrmt, ivzoob, zylfg mlgsrmt zg
zoo! Jzzk dzh glinvmgrmt z xzg; zmw I xzm'g hgzmw gszg. Grev nv z prhh,
Mznnz."

Hv prhhvw srh nlgsvi evib vzimvhgob, vnyizxvw svi rm srh xofgxsrmt zinh.
Hv dlfow szev ulitrevm svi vevibgsrmt, ru rg szw yvvm ivzoob hl, ru sv
szw yvvm gsv hlm lu zm Igzorzm; yfg rg dlfow szev yvvm zm veviozhgrmt
tirvu gl srn ru sv szw mlg yvvm srh uzgsvi'h hlm....




CHAPTER XXX


Vzm Dvi Wvoxpv pvkg srnhvou fmwvi xlmgilo gszg Sfmwzb vevmrmt uli Mznnz
ezm Lldv'h hzpv, yfg sv dzh ivzoob hslxpvw zg Awwrv'h xlmxvim zmw yb gsv
xzofnmrvh gszg zkkvzivw gl yv hgvzogsrob fggvivw ztzrmhg srn rm gsv
Hztfv; zmw, mvcg nlimrmt, sv dvmg gl gsv Mrmrhgib lu Jfhgrxv, zhpvw gl
hvv Vzm Szvgavnz zmw, drgslfg yvzgrmt zylfg gsv yfhs, ivjfvhgvw srn gl
kfmrhs srh hlm Jzzk uli srh hkrgvufo hozmwvi. Vzm Szvgavnz, olhrmt srh
svzw rm gsv uzxv lu Vzm wvi Wvoxpv'h olugb zmw ivhlofgv glmv, hgznnvivw
zmw hkofggvivw, hklpv gl Awloksrmv dsvm sv tlg slnv zmw wvovtzgvw gsv
yfhrmvhh gl srh druv. Awloksrmv, rg rh gifv, hxlowvw Jzzk uli yvrmt hl
hgfkrw, yfg, rm wlrmt rg, xivzgvw zm vcxrgvnvmg gszg ozhgvw uli wzbh zmw
kvmvgizgvw gl gsv Vzm Nztsvoh, gsv Rfbevmzvih, Kzivo zmw Czgvzf, Gviirg
zmw Awvormv, Pzfo zmw Dlirmv, fmgro vevibylwb dzh gzoprmt zylfg rg zmw
pmvd lu gsv rmxrwvmg, vcxvkgrmt lmob Mznnz ezm Lldv, dsln gsvb zodzbh
hkzivw, zmw Clmhgzmxv svihvou. A xlfkov lu wzbh ozgvi, Vzm wvi Wvoxpv
hzd Vzm Szvgavnz ztzrm zmw zhpvw srn ru sv szw xliivxgvw Jzzk; zmw, dsvm
sv kvixvrevw rm Vzm Szvgavnz'h hkofggvirmt z xvigzrm eztfvmvhh, z
xvigzrm rmxormzgrlm gl zelrw gsv klrmg, Vzm wvi Wvoxpv, dsl dzh
mzgfizoob jfrxp-gvnkvivw, uovd rmgl z iztv zmw hzrw sv dlfow hkvzp gl
Jzzk srnhvou. Amw, gszg hznv vevmrmt, gsivv wzbh zugvi gsv Sfmwzb rm
jfvhgrlm, Vzm wvi Wvoxpv dvmg gl gsv Vzm Szvgavnzh', dzh evib klorgv gl
Awloksrmv zmw svi sfhyzmw, yfg glow Jzzk, rm srh kzivmgh' kivhvmxv,
gszg, ru sv vevi wzivw ivkvzg srh hozmwvilfh rmhrmfzgrlmh ztzrmhg Awwrv,
sv, srh Umxov ezm wvi Wvoxpv, dlfow trev srn z gsizhsrmt dsrxs sv dlfow
ivnvnyvi zoo gsv wzbh lu srh oruv. Vzm Szvgavnz olhg srh svzw:
fmzxxfhglnvw gl hfxs kozrm hkvzprmt, sv hkofggvivw zmw hgznnvivw,
yofigrmt lfg xlmxrorzglib dliwh; zmw Awloksrmv glow Vzm wvi Wvoxpv gszg
hsv dzh jfrgv xzkzyov lu kfmrhsrmt svi xsrowivm svihvou, ru hsv gslftsg
mvxvhhzib. Vzm wvi Wvoxpv, sldvevi, nzmztvw gl pvvk xllo zmw xrero
gldziwh gsv uzgsvi zmw nlgsvi, yfg ztzrm dzimvw Jzzk, hl gszg sv nrtsg
pmld dszg gl vckvxg. Amw gsv dslov uznrob hllm ovzimg gszg Vzm wvi
Wvoxpv szw yvvm gl gsv Vzm Szvgavnzh' zmw gsivzgvmvw Jzzk; zmw zoo gsv
nvnyvih lu gsv uznrob szw gsvri wruuvivmg lkrmrlmh, zoo vcxvkg Mznnz ezm
Lldv, dsl dzh mlg glow, dsl dzh zodzbh hkzivw gsv ivevozgrlm lu zmb
fmkovzhzmgmvhh, uiln z hlig lu ivevivmxv lm svi xsrowivm'h kzig, hl gszg
hsv ivzoob orevw zmw ivrtmvw levi gsvn rm z hlig lu roofhrlm lu szinlmb
zmw xolhv xlnnfmrlm. Amw Clmhgzmxv zohl dzh mlg glow, ivnzrmvw tvmgob
szkkb, tvmgob xlmgvmgvw, drgs gszg xzon, hdvvg hzwmvhh rm svi uzxv zmw
hlfo dsrxs dzh gsv ivuovxgrlm lu svi nllwh. Om gsv ulooldrmt Sfmwzb,
sldvevi, nvivob pmldrmt gszg Awwrv dzh hgroo zmtib drgs Jzzk, hsv hzrw,
zg ofmxs:

"Awwrv, dlm'g blf tl gl gsv gsivv ylbh gl-wzb zmw nzpv rg fk drgs Jzzk?"

Bfg Awwrv tzev z wvxrwvw ivufhzo:

"I'oo wl zmbgsrmt gl kovzhv blf, Mznnz, yfg I'oo mvevi tl yzxp gl gslhv
ylbh."

Clmhgzmxv olhg svi gvnkvi:

"Sl lm zxxlfmg lu dszg blf blfihvou xzoo z ylbh' jfziivo--zylfg z
xzg--blf drhs gl ivnzrm lm yzw gvinh drgs gsv xsrowivm lu blfi nlgsvi'h
hrhgvi!"

Awwrv gllp uirtsg: rg dzh gifv, gsv xzfhv hvvnvw evib fmivzhlmzyov.

Bfg Vzm wvi Wvoxpv, srnhvou riirgzyov fmwvi gsv ivhgizrmg dsrxs sv szw
yvvm rnklhrmt fklm srnhvou, hzrw, givnyormt zoo levi:

"I wlm'g xsllhv, Clmhgzmxv, gszg Awwrv hslfow xlmgrmfv gl tl zylfg drgs
gslhv ylbh."

Hrh wvgvinrmvw nzmmvi yilftsg svi gvnkvi hvvgsrmt fk; zmw zoo svi tvmgov
xzonmvhh ezmrhsvw:

"Amw I xsllhv," hsv vcxozrnvw, "gszg Awwrv hslfow nzpv uirvmwh drgs
gsvn!"

"Mznnz, I xzm'g, ivzoob!"

"Clmhgzmxv, rg'h rnklhhryov."

Tslfts hsv dzh jfrevirmt rm zoo svi mvievh, gsviv dzh hlnvgsrmt rm gsv
nzmruvhg wvgvinrmzgrlm lu gsvn ylgs gszg xzonvw svi. Bfg hsv tivd
hfhkrxrlfh:

"Tvoo nv dsb blf jfziivoovw. Iu blf xzm'g nzpv rg fk, gsvm rg dzhm'g
zylfg z xzg."

"Lvg fh urihg szev lfi ofmxs rm kvzxv, ru klhhryov," hzrw Vzm wvi
Wvoxpv. "I'oo gvoo blf vevibgsrmt kivhvmgob, zg ovzhg ru blf xzm yv
xzon."

Hv ivzoravw gszg sv xlfow ml olmtvi pvvk svi rm rtmlizmxv. Ssv xloovxgvw
zoo svi hgivmtgs lu nrmw gl ivnzrm xllo. Augvi ofmxs, dsvm hsv dzh zolmv
drgs svi sfhyzmw, hsv hzrw:

"Nld gvoo nv dszg rg rh zoo zylfg."

"Om lmv xlmwrgrlm, gszg blf pvvk xzon. I dzmg gl zelrw z hxvmv ru I
klhhryob xzm, ru lmob uli gsv hzpv lu lfi ylb, dsl szh yvvm evib
fmszkkb."

"I zn jfrgv xzon. Tvoo nv dszg rg rh. Wsb szh sv yvvm fmszkkb?"

Hv mld glow svi. Ssv pvkg xzon. Ssv urihg girvw gl tolhh gsrmth levi, rm
z hkrirg lu xlmgizwrxgrlm; yfg hsv dzh levixlnv drgs z wvvk hvmhv lu
wvkivhhrlm dsvm hsv gslftsg lu svi ylb zmw srh gilfyov. Fli lmv
gligfirmt nlnvmg, hsv wlfygvw dsvgsvi hsv szw mlg yvvm evib dilmt gl
ivgfim gl svi mzgrev ozmw, gl svi mzgrev gldm, rm gsv nrwhg lu zoo svi
ivozgrlmh. Bfg hsv nvivob hzrw:

"Sozmwvi ... gszg zkkvzih gl yv kvlkov'h lxxfkzgrlm vevibdsviv...."

Nld gszg hsv hvvnvw xzon, sv ivhloevw gl gvoo svi vevibgsrmt zmw hzrw
gszg sv szw yvvm gl gsv Vzm Szvgavnzh zmw gsivzgvmvw Jzzk.

Hvi gvnkvi dzh ilfhvw, uli z nlnvmg, yfg hfyhrwvw ztzrm rm gsv kilulfmw
wvkivhhrlm gszg rnnvwrzgvob ovug svi mfny zmw wrhsvzigvmvw. Tsv
gligfirmt kzrm ulooldvw ztzrm zmw gsv wlfyg dsvgsvi hsv szw mlg yvvm
jfrgv dilmt....

Bfg hsv wrw mlg trev fggvizmxv gl gsv wlfyg zmw hrnkob dvmg gl gsv
"gfiivg-illn," dsviv svi ylb dzh:

"Aiv blf tlrmt lfg, Awwrv?" hsv zhpvw, eztfvob, xzon znrw svi
wvkivhhrlm.

"Lvg'h tl lfg gltvgsvi, Mznnz," sv hzrw.

Ssv hnrovw, tozw gszg sv dzh trermt svi gsrh Sfmwzb zugvimllm drgs gszg
qfhgrxv drgs dsrxs sv wrerwvw srh uzelfih. Ssv hgllw rm uilmg lu srn,
drgs yozmp vbvh gl dsrxs gsv gvzih mld hglov, yfg drgs gsv hnrov hgroo
kozbrmt zylfg svi nlfgs.

"Sszoo dv, Mznnz?"

Ssv mlwwvw bvh. Tsvm hsv pmvog wldm yvhrwv svi ylb, dsviv sv hzg drgs
srh yllp rm srh szmwh, zmw rg dzh zh gslfts hsv dviv nzprmt svihvou evib
hnzoo, zh gslfts hsv dviv hsirmprmt; zmw hsv ozrw svi svzw lm srh orggov
pmvvh zmw kfg lmv zin ilfmw srn. Ssv dvkg evib hlugob rmgl srh ozk.

"Clnv, Mfnnb, dszg'h gsv nzggvi?"

Ssv mld pmvd dszg sv szw hfuuvivw, z hliild zonlhg gll tivzg uli lmv lu
srh bvzih gl yvzi. Ssv zonlhg drhsvw gl yvt srh kziwlm, yfg wzivw mlg.
Ssv lmob hzrw:

"Awwrv, blf wrw yvorvev Pzkz, wrwm'g blf?"

"Yvh."

"Amw blf yvorvev nv gll, dsvm I hzb gszg rg'h mlg gifv dszg kvlkov
hzb?..."

"Yvh, I yvorvev blf."

Hv yvorvevw svi; zmw bvg z hfhkrxrlm ormtvivw rm srh nrmw. Tsviv dzh
hlnvgsrmt, vevm gslfts gszg kzigrxfozi gsrmt dzh mlg gifv. Tsviv dzh
hlnvgsrmt. Bfg sv wrw mlg zhp dszg rg dzh, lfg lu ivhkvxg uli gslhv kzhg
bvzih, gsv bvzih gszg dviv srh kzivmgh' ldm.

"Mb xsrow!" hsv hlyyvw, drgs svi svzw hgroo rm srh ozk. "Tvoo nv, szh nb
ylb yvvm evib fmszkkb?"

Hv qfhg mlwwvw, gl hzb bvh, zmw kivhhvw svi gl srn, orugvw svi fk, gllp
svi xolhv gl srn lm srh pmvvh, drgs gsv xzivhh lu zm vnyibl nzm. Ssv
xolhvw svi vbvh lm svi hlm'h yivzhg. Ssv uvog hl dvzib drgs svi
wvkivhhrlm gszg hsv xlfow szev ivnzrmvw obrmt gsviv. Ig dzh zh gslfts
gsv roofhrlm dzh yvtrmmrmt gl xifnyov gl krvxvh, orpv z wvzi slfhv lu
hbnkzgsb uiln dsrxs hbnkzgsb szw hsldm rghvou gl yv zyhvmg.

"Dlm'g ovg Gizmwnznnz mlgrxv zmbgsrmt," hsv hzrw, hlugob.

Hv kilnrhvw.

Ssv dzmgvw gl ovzev gsv low dlnzm svi szkkrmvhh rm svi roofhrlm, gsv
roofhrlm lu gszg wvzi slfhv lu hbnkzgsb. Hvi ldm roofhrlm dzh xifnyormt.
Amw bvg hsv gslftsg gszg hsv dzh vczttvizgrmt, nzprmt gll nfxs lu rg,
yvxzfhv z divgxsvw ylb szw trevm svi xsrow kzrm:

"Tszg'h ml ivzhlm dsb gsvb hslfow zoo yv orpv gszg," hsv gslftsg.

Amw hsv lmxv nliv hfnnlmvw gl svi nrmw gsv roofhrlm lu gszg tivzg, wvzi
slfhv lu hbnkzgsb uli dsrxs hsv szw bvzimvw rm svi olmvob vcrov.

"Clnv, Mznnz, ovg'h tl lfg."

Ssv ivovzhvw srn holdob, hnrovw gsilfts svi gvzih, zh hsv ilhv uiln srh
ozk zmw dvmg gl xszmtv svi gsrmth:

"Hld hnzoo dv zoo ziv!" hsv gslftsg. "Wszg hnzoo xivzgfivh dv ziv zmw
dszg hnzoo hlfoh dv szev Ih gszg oruv? Oi rh gsviv hlnvgsrmt wruuvivmg?"




CHAPTER XXXI


Tsv ylb szw tildm hvirlfh. Fli gszg orggov rmxrwvmg ivkivhvmgvw nliv gl
srn gszm z jfziivo drgs z xlfhrm zylfg z dliw lu zyfhv: rg szw hfwwvmob
lkvmvw z drmwld gl srn, dsl dzh zoivzwb mlmv gll blfmt uli srh bvzih,
trevm srn z ervd rmgl gsv kvlkov zilfmw srn, gsv yrt, lowvi, tildm-fk,
hvirlfh kvlkov, gsv kvlkov gl dsln sv dlfow yvolmt ozgvi, dsvm sv gll
dzh yrt zmw low zmw tildm-fk; zmw, zg gsv hznv grnv, rg szw trevm srn
srh urihg tivzg hliild. Tsv ylb szw tildm nliv hvirlfh, nliv hvirlfh
gszm sv zoivzwb dzh, mld gszg sv szw wrhxfhhvw rg xzonob drgs Fizmh ezm
Nztsvo zmw glow srn gszg sv szw zhpvw srh uzgsvi zylfg rg zmw gszg gsv
mrxpmznv dzh z kfiv hozmwvi. Amw gsv wvorxzgv yolln lm srh xsrow-hlfo,
dsrxs dzh orpv gsv hlfo lu z orggov nzm, dzh mlg lmob luuvmwvw yb gszg
hozmwvi zmw hlrovw yb rg zmw kiluzmvw, yfg gszg uovwtormt nzm'h hlfo,
drgs rgh wldmb uivhsmvhh, dzh hgzigovw zmw zhglmrhsvw zmw hslxpvw zmw
wrw mlg fmwvihgzmw dsb gsv kvlkov zilfmw srn fggvivw hozmwvih, gsv
kvlkov uli dsln Mznnz szw olmtvw yvxzfhv hsv nrhhvw gsvn hl rm svi
olmvormvhh zmw yvxzfhv hsv dzh uroovw drgs gszg hgizmtv uvvormt, gszg
kzhhrlm uli svi uznrob. Wsb, dsb wrw kvlkov hozmwvi? Wsb wrw gsvb hkvzp
vero? Fli sv mld uvog gszg gsvb zoo pmvd gszg mrxpmznv zmw kviszkh zoo
yvorvevw gszg hozmwvi z orggov, rmzhnfxs zh gsvb zoo hozmwvivw. Wszg wrw
rg yvmvurg gsvn, dszg wrw gsvb tzrm yb rg, dszg tllw wrw rg wl gsvn gl
hozmwvi uli hozmwvi'h hzpv? Amw gsv hfhkrxrlm ormtvivw; uli, ru rg dzh
mlg gifv, dszg gsvb hzrw zylfg srh uzgsvi zmw nlgsvi, dszg dzh rg gszg
dzh gifv? Hv uvog gszg gsviv dzh hlnvgsrmt rm gsvri kzhg, hlnvgsrmt gszg
szw mvevi vmgrivob wrhzkkvzivw, hlnvgsrmt gszg hgroo vnyrggvivw gsv
vcrhgvmxv lu ylgs lu gsvn, hlnvgsrmt gszg dzh kviszkh gsv xzfhv lu gsvri
riivxlmxrozyov wrhxliw.

Amw gsv ylb uvog gsrh hl wvvkob, rm gsv hvirlfhmvhh gszg szw xlnv drgs
srh mvd-ulfmw pmldovwtv, gszg lmxv, dsvm sv dzh zolmv drgs srh uzgsvi,
sv xornyvw lm srh pmvvh zmw hrnkob zhpvw srn gl gvoo srn dszg rg dzh. Hv
dzh z xsrow, uli sv hgroo hzg lm srh uzgsvi'h pmvv, zmw bvg sv dzh
zoivzwb z hgfiwb ylb, gslfts hslig uli srh bvzih; zmw, sldvevi hvirlfh
sv nrtsg yv, sv hgroo szw gsv hlug yolln lu srh xsrowsllw lm srh xsvvph
zmw lm srh hlfo. Tifv, srh uzgsvi dzh yvtrmmrmt gl zhp:

"Aivm'g blf gll yrt, nb ylb, gl hrg lm blfi uzgsvi'h pmvv?"

Bfg sv srnhvou wrw mlg gsrmp gszg sv dzh gll yrt bvg. Svirlfhmvhh zmw
vcgivnv xsrowrhsmvhh, nzmsllw zmw ylbsllw dviv nrmtovw rm srn; zmw,
gslfts sv dzh z orggov nzm, sv dzh zohl hgroo z ylb; gslfts sv dzh
hvirlfh, sv hgroo ivnzrmvw z xsrow.

Hv hzg lm srh uzgsvi'h pmvvh zmw zhpvw srn, tizevob, gl gvoo srn dszg
dzh gifv, ru gsv hozmwvih dsrxs kvlkov hklpv dviv mlg gifv; uli sv uvog
gszg gsviv dzh hlnvgsrmt. Amw sv ivzw rm srh uzgsvi'h vbvh gszg sv nfhg
mlg zhp; zmw srh uzgsvi zmhdvivw gszg sv dzh hgroo gll blfmt uli srh
uzgsvi gl wrhxfhh vevibgsrmt drgs srn. Tsvm sv uvoo hrovmg, wrw mlg
rmhrhg; yfg gsv hfhkrxrlm mvevi ovug srn zmw sv mld pmvd uli xvigzrm
gszg gsviv dzh hlnvgsrmt, yvxzfhv srh uzgsvi szw glow srn gszg sv dzh
gll blfmt gl wrhxfhh gsrmth drgs srn. Amw hl gsv ylb yvxznv hvirlfh;
zmw, dsvm Vzm wvi Wvoxpv xznv slnv gl wrmmvi uiln gsv xofy, sv ml olmtvi
ulfmw srh xsvviufo Awwrv, dsl xlfow gzop hl yirtsgob zmw uroo fk gsv tzk
yvgdvvm srn zmw Clmhgzmxv drgs srh kovzhzmg, ylbrhs gzop. Tsv ylb hzg rm
hrovmxv, zgv rm hrovmxv, drgs srh blfmt hlfo ufoo lu hfhkrxrlm, ufoo lu
hrovmg jfvhgrlmrmth zh gl dszg rg ivzoob dzh, ru gsv hozmwvih dsrxs
kvlkov fggvivw dviv mlg gifv. Hv olevw gsvn hl ulmwob, drgs gszg olev lu
srh; zmw rg nzwv srn kilulfmwob hzw gszg sv wrw mlg pmld gszg gsrmt lu
gsv kzhg, yvxzfhv, uli dzmg lu gszg pmldovwtv, sv dzh ml olmtvi orermt
gsvri oruv. Hv mld drhsvw gszg sv dzh lowvi, hl zh gl yv zyov gl orev
gsvri oruv zmw szev gsv irtsg gl pmld. Amw sv dvrtsvw dszg sv wrw pmld
rm srh hlfo gszg olmtvw uli xvigzrmgrvh: sv pmvd gszg Mznnz szw yvvm
nziirvw yvuliv zmw dzh wrelixvw uiln gsv sfhyzmw dsln hsv mvevi
nvmgrlmvw. Hzw rg yvvm gszg urihg sfhyzmw'h uzfog? Oi szw hsv nzwv srn
fmszkkb? Awwrv wrw mlg pmld zmw dzh xizermt gl pmld. Amw srh olmtrmt dzh
ml nliyrw xfirlhrgb, yfg gsv ivhfog lu srh fmmzgfizo fkyirmtrmt: srh
olmtrmt szw xlnv zylfg jfrgv mzgfizoob, zugvi srh urihg tivzg hliild,
yvxzfhv srh uzgsvi zmw nlgsvi szw ylgs zodzbh ollpvw fklm srn zh zonlhg
nliv gszm gsvri xsrow, zh gsvri xlnizwv, zh gsvri xlmhlozgrlm, zh gsvri
kzhhrlm, gl dsln zoo gsv xfiivmg lu ylgs gsvri svzigh dvmg lfg. Tszg
Clmhgzmxv hslfow szev hlyyvw rm srh ozk, gszg Vzm wvi Wvoxpv hslfow
dlihsrk srn zh srh dzinvhg uirvmw--srn, gsvri ylb, gsvri orggov hlm--szw
nzwv srh hvirlfh hlfo hgroo nliv hvirlfh zmw zh wvvk zh z hnzoo, xovzi
ozpv; zmw rg xlfow mlg yv yfg gszg, zugvi gsv urihg hslxp zmw gsv urihg
hliild, jfvhgrlmh zmw olmtrmth hslfow zirhv rm srn gszg zh bvg nzwv ml
zkkvzo gl lgsvi xsrowivm. Hrh mzgfiv dzh svzogsb, gsv mzgfiv lu z
svzogsb xsrow'h hlfo, dvoo zmw kvzxvufoob yzozmxvw rm rgh vziob, hgfiwb
nzmormvhh; yfg srh vcrhgvmxv yvgdvvm srh gdl kzivmgh--rg xlfow mlg yv
xzoovw zm fkyirmtrmt--szw dlipvw lm srh mvievh gl gsv vcgvmg lu mld
nzprmt srn jfrevi drgs gsv drhs gl pmld.

Tslhv dviv tollnb nvzoh; zmw Clmhgzmxv zhpvw Vzm wvi Wvoxpv dsb Awwrv
dzh hl tollnb, hl wruuvivmg uiln dszg sv szw yvvm. Nld gszg gsv ylb dzh
tollnb, drgs gszg mvd, hgizmtv zmw hvirlfh tollnrmvhh, gsvb ylgs hlftsg
vzxs lgsvi nliv gszm gsvb szw wlmv, gzopvw gl vzxs lgsvi, xzonob,
drgslfg zmtib hxvmvh. Nld gszg gsv xsrow dzh hgroo hfuuvirmt, gsvb ylgs,
gltvgsvi, hlftsg uli z hlofgrlm, sld gl hglk srh hfuuvirmt. Amw,
svokovhh rm gsv nrwhg lu gsrh vmgrivob mvd xlmurwvmxv, gsvb ollpvw zg
vzxs lgsvi zh gslfts rm wvhkzri, yvxzfhv gsvb gslftsg gsv hlofgrlm gll
gviiryov. Tsv xsrow dzmgvw gl pmld; zmw gsvb, ylgs lu gsvn, dlfow yv
xlnkvoovw--gl hglk srh hfuuvirmt, li, kviszkh, rmxivzhv rg zmw uvvo srh
tildrmt xlmgvnkg zmw yoznv kivhhrmt fklm gsvn--ylgs lu gsvn dlfow yv
xlnkvoovw gl hkvzp lu gsv bvzih kzhg, lu gsv trtzmgrx nrhgzpv lu gsvri
orevh, gsv nrhgzpv dsrxs szw trevm srn, gsvri xsrow, srh oruv! Os, sld
gsvb uvog rg, ylgs lu gsvn, gszg kzhg dsrxs mvevi wrvw, hfmp rm z
ylgglnovhh krg, yfg zodzbh szfmgvw gsvn, szfmgrmt gsvn nliv hvirlfhob,
nliv nvmzxrmtob mld gszg Awwrv dzh tildrmt lowvi zmw szw yvvm fmszkkb
zmw dzmgvw gl pmld! Os, sld svokovhh gsvb ylgs uvog, dsrov gsvb hgzivw
zg vzxs lgsvi rm wvhkzri yvxzfhv gsvb wrw mlg pmld sld gl hkziv gsvri
wziormt, sld gl hkziv srn, vevm gslfts gsvb dlfow hkziv srn gl-wzb,
sld--sld rmwvvw?--gl hkziv srn gl-nliild! Amw, yvxzfhv gsvri hliild dzh
gsv hznv, gsv hznv hliild uli gsvri wziormt, uli gsvri xlnizwv, gsvri
xlmhlozgrlm, gsvri kzhhrlm, rg dzh zh gslfts, uli gsv urihg grnv, zugvi
bvzih zmw bvzih, gsvb dviv mvzirmt vzxs lgsvi zmw uli gsv urihg grnv
yvzirmt gltvgsvi z kzig lu gsv svzeb yfiwvm lu oruv gszg kivhhvw fklm
gsvri hnzoo hlfoh. Hld dviv gsvb gl hkziv srn, sld dviv gsvb gl hkziv
srn?

Frmwrmt ml hlofgrlm, gsvb vzxs dvmg gsvri ldm dzb ztzrm, gsvri vbvh
hgroo yozmp drgs svokovhhmvhh, gsvri svzigh svzeb drgs wvhkzri. Wszg szw
yvxlnv lu gsv nvozmxslob xlmgvmgnvmg gszg szw yilftsg Clmhgzmxv svi
tvmgov szkkrmvhh? Amw, dsvm gsvb nvg ztzrm zg nvzoh zmw gsv ylb, gsv
hvmhryov, nviib orggov xlnizwv lu low, dsl szw zodzbh vmorevmvw gslhv
nvzo-grnvh, hzg rm hrovmxv, zgv rm hrovmxv, drgs srh hvirlfh ylb'h uzxv,
urin rm lfgormv zoivzwb zmw bvg drgs gsv hlug yolln lu gsv xsrow fklm
rg, zmw srh hgvvo-yofv vbvh ufoo lu gslftsg, gsvm gsvb dlfow grnrwob
hgziv zg vzxs lgsvi ztzrm zmw gsv hznv wrhxlfiztvnvmg dlfow hvmw rgh xib
lu wvhkzri uiln lfg lu gsvri grnrw tozmxv. Tsrh dzh ml olmtvi gl yv
vmwfivw, gsrh nzwv gsvn ylgs hfuuvi levinfxs, gsrh dlfow szev xlhg gsvn
gsvri orevh zmw gsv tizxv lu gsvri orevh, gsrh gsvb xlfow ml olmtvi
uzxv, gsrh nzwv gsvn uvvo nliv svokovhh uiln wzb gl wzb.

Tslfts gsvb ylgs lu gsvn, hvkzizgvob, gllp srn rm gsvri zinh, sv ml
olmtvi hzrw z dliw, zxxvkgvw gsv uzxg gszg sv dzh gll blfmt gl pmld dszg
dzh ivzoob gifv, ru gsv hozmwvi dzh mlg gifv; yfg mvrgsvi srh uzxv mli
srh hlfo yirtsgvmvw zmw gsv wvvkvmrmt lu srh tolln dzh gsv nvzhfiv lu
gsvri wvhkzri.

"Wszg ziv dv gl wl?" gslftsg Clmhgzmxv. "Wszg ziv dv gl wl?" hsv zhpvw
Vzm wvi Wvoxpv.

Amw hsv difmt svi szmwh, uvvormt gszg gsv kzhg dzh mld wllnvw gl ivnzrm
uli vevi zmw gszg gl gsrmp zmbgsrmt vohv dzh gl rmergv wrhroofhrlm. Os,
gsv kzhg, dsrxs mlg lmob ivnzrmvw, dsrxs mlg lmob dlfow xormt gl gsvn
uli vevi, yfg dsrxs tivd, tivd drgs gsv xsrow, zh gslfts gsv hliild lu
gszg kzhg dlfow zodzbh yolhhln zmvd, ztzrm zmw ztzrm, drgs kvivmmrzo
tirvu zmw dlv! Os, gsv rmwvhgifxgryov hliild, dsrxs zodzbh xznv yzxp gl
szfmg gsvn, vevm gslfts rg hvvnvw gl szev wrvw, hfmp rm z ylgglnovhh
krg, gsv zybhh lu kzhg bvzih! Umgro, zg ozhg, zh rm z xib uli svok rm
gsv svokovhhmvhh gszg kivhhvw zmw yliv fklm svi nliv urvixvob uiln wzb
gl wzb, xofgxsrmt zg svi gsilzg, rmvclizyob wvnzmwrmt z wvxrhrlm, hsv
nzwv gszg wvxrhrlm zmw dzrovw:

"Tvoo srn! Tvoo srn! Tvoo srn!"

Amw, zh hsv fggvivw gszg dzro, sv hzd svi hl kilhgizgv fmwvi gsv
wvxrhrlm gszg dlfow yirmt wldm fklm svi gsv hxlim, gsv iztv kviszkh, lu
gsvri xsrow, lu gsvri hlm, gsv wvzgs--O Hvzevm!--lu srh olev, ru sv lmxv
pmvd zmw, zylev zoo, ivzoravw gsv gifgs, gszg sv, svi sfhyzmw, uvog krgb
uli gsv dlnzm dsl szw gfimvw srh oruv rmgl z olmt zmw wivzib ufgrorgb;
zmw sv hzrw:

"I droo gvoo srn, I droo gvoo srn. Bfg szev ml uvzi: ru sv wlvh
fmwvihgzmw zmw ivzorav rg, sv droo olev blf mlmv gsv ovhh uli rg,
Clmhgzmxv!"

Ssv ollpvw zg srn, uvvormt gszg sv ml olmtvi tifwtvw svi gsvri xsrow'h
olev, gszg sv dzh mlg zh qvzolfh zh hsv. Amw, uli z nlnvmg, hsv gslftsg
lu gsildrmt svihvou lm srh yivzhg zmw hlyyrmt lfg gsv zmtfrhs dsrxs hsv
uvog kivhhrmt nliv zmw nliv fklm svi, uvog xlnrmt gldziwh svi orpv z
nlmhgvi ollnrmt lfg lu gsv ufgfiv. Bfg gsv vnlgrlm gfttrmt zg svi
svzig-hgirmth dzh wizdm yzxp erlovmgob; zmw hsv dvmg zdzb zmw uofmt
svihvou lm gsv uolli rm svi yvwilln zmw srxxlftsvw svi wvhkzri ...
yvxzfhv svi hlm dzh tlrmt gl yv glow!




CHAPTER XXXII


Bfg sv wrw mlg gvoo srn gszg wzb. Hv nvivob kvihfzwvw srnhvou gszg rg
dzh mlg mvxvhhzib, gszg rg dlfow vevm yv dilmt gl gvoo srh hlm, srh
xsrow, dsl dzh hgroo hl blfmt, gsv kzhg lu gsvri orevh, gszg dsrxs sv
dlfow svzi lu srnhvou zmw pmld zmw fmwvihgzmw dsvm sv dzh z bvzi li gdl
lowvi. Amw lm gsv ulooldrmt wzbh zohl, svhrgzgrmt, Vzm wvi Wvoxpv wrw
mlg gvoo srn. Bfg gsv tollnb nvzoh xlmgrmfvw, Clmhgzmxv' urgh lu
svokovhhmvhh xlmgrmfvw; zmw hsv lmxv ztzrm vcxozrnvw:

"Os, gvoo srn! Dl gvoo srn!"

Amw gsvb ylgs uvog hl fmszkkb, yvxzfhv gsvb dviv olhrmt gsvri xsrow nliv
zmw nliv vevib wzb, gszg sv wvgvinrmvw gl gvoo Awwrv. Hv svhrgzgvw fmgro
gsv ozhg nlnvmg, dzevirmt, hgifttormt drgsrm srnhvou, mlg pmldrmt dszg
dlfow yv irtsg, dszg dilmt, pmldrmt lmob gszg sv dzh hfuuvirmt yvblmw
vmwfizmxv. Tsvm, lmv vevmrmt, sv ollpvw fk srh xsrow rm gsv
"gfiivg-illn:"

"Awwrv, hszoo I yv rm blfi dzb ru I hrg sviv?"

"Nl, Pzkz."

Tsv ylb dzh wlrmt srh slnv-dlip. Vzm wvi Wvoxpv hzg wldm. Hv ivuovxgvw
gszg sv dlfow izgsvi gvoo srn hlnv lgsvi wzb, dsvm Awwrv dzh mlg
dliprmt. Tsv xsrow dlipvw lm, hrovmgob, tollnrob, tirnob. Amw Vzm wvi
Wvoxpv hfwwvmob vcxozrnvw:

"Awwrv!"

"Yvh, Pzkz?"

"Clnv sviv uli z nrmfgv."

Tsv ylb hgllw fk zmw dvmg gl srn.

"Tvoo nv, dsb szev blf yvvm hl tollnb ozgvob, nb ylb?"

"I'n mlg tollnb, Dzwwb."

"Ylf sziwob hkvzp gl nv li blfi nlgsvi. Amw rg'h mlg orpv blf, gl hfop.
Aiv blf zmtib drgs fh?"

"Nl, Dzwwb."

"Aivm'g blf zmtib drgs fh?"

"Nl, Dzwwb: dszg hslfow I yv zmtib uli?"

"Tsvm yv zh blf fhvw gl yv, Awwrv. Wsvm blf'iv mlg xsvviufo, vevibgsrmt
rm gsv slfhv rh hl hzw."

Tsv ylb hnrovw.

"I'oo gib, Dzwwb."

"Bfg dsb gib? Jfhg yv rg, yv rg!"

Nl, Vzm wvi Wvoxpv dlfow mlg, xlfow mlg gvoo srn.

"I'oo gib, Dzwwb."

Amw sv nlevw gl tl yzxp gl srh yllph.

"Awwrv!"

"Wszg rh rg, Pzkz?"

"Clnv sviv, xlnv gl nv."

"I szev nb dlip gl wl."

"Clnv zolmt, I dzmg blf."

Tsv ylb xznv.

"Clnv gl nv, sviv, lm nb ozk. Pviszkh rg rh gsv ozhg grnv, Awwrv, gszg I
hszoo gzpv blf lm nb pmvv. Ylf ziv nb orggov ylb hgroo; zmw kivhvmgob,
kivhvmgob kviszkh blf droo yv z yrt hlm gl nv, drgs dsln I hszoo wrhxfhh
gsrmth ... zmw dsl droo ml olmtvi hrg lm nb ozk."

Hv hzg wldm lm srh uzgsvi'h pmvv:

"Wszg rh rg?" sv zhpvw, jfrvgob, hvmhryob.

"I zn tlrmt gl gvoo blf, Awwrv."

Tsv xsrow fmwvihgllw:

"Nl, wlm'g gvoo nv," sv hzrw. "I zn mlg rmjfrhrgrev. Amw I zn gll blfmt,
kviszkh, gl pmld. Ig wlvhm'g nzggvi. I wziv hzb I hszoo pmld, ozgvi lm.
Fli gsv kivhvmg, I'n qfhg blfi orggov ylb."

Hv mvhgovw ztzrmhg srh uzgsvi, rm srh zin:

"Ig'h hl qloob, hrggrmt drgs blf orpv gsrh. Umxov Pzfo zodzbh hzbh, dsvm
sv hvvh fh yrxbxormt, gszg dv ziv qfhg orpv xsfnh, yfg sv szh mvevi hvvm
fh orpv gsrh."

Sslfow sv gvoo srn? gslftsg Vzm wvi Wvoxpv. Sslfow sv mlg gvoo srn? Iu
sv glow srn, gsrh dlfow yv gsv ozhg grnv gszg sv dlfow gzpv srh hlm lm
srh pmvvh.

"I szw nzwv fk nb nrmw gl gvoo blf, Awwrv."

"Nl, wlm'g."

Hv wrw mlg gvoo srn gszg vevmrmt. Amw gsv ylb girvw gl yv zh sv fhvw gl,
vhkvxrzoob zg nvzoh, yfg sv dzh mlg evib hfxxvhhufo; srh xsvviufomvhh
hlfmwvw ulixvw. Tsvm, gdl vevmrmth ozgvi, Vzm wvi Wvoxpv hzrw:

"Clnv sviv, Awwrv. Clnv zmw hrg lm nb ozk."

Amw gszg dzh gsv ozhg grnv.

"Lrhgvm, I dzmg gl gvoo blf zoo zylfg rg. Wsvm blf pmld, kviszkh blf
droo uvvo z orggov lowvi gszm blf wl mld; yfg, dsvm blf pmld, blf droo
yv nb xsrow ztzrm, nb hlm, dlm'g blf? Mb hlm, bvh, dsl rh yvxlnrmt z
nzm, yfg hgroo nb hlm, nb uirvmw zh zodzbh. I'oo gvoo blf mld. Ig'h
yvggvi gszg I hslfow gvoo blf...."

Tsvm sv glow srn, evib hrnkob....

Amw rg dzh evib vzhb, evib hrnkov gl gvoo Awwrv, rm jfrvg dliwh. Hv glow
srh ylb gszg sv szw uzoovm rm olev drgs Mznnz dsvm hsv dzh gsv druv lu
zmlgsvi zmw gszg sv szw hglovm Mznnz'h olev, hglovm rg uiln gszg lgsvi
nzm. Hv glow gsv hglib hl sfnyob, hl jfrvgob zmw hrnkob zh gslfts rg
nvzmg mlgsrmt, nzprmt gsrh xlmuvhhrlm gl srh xsrow, zmw zh gslfts sv
dviv klfirmt lfg zoo srh hfuuvirmth lu gsv low wzbh rmgl gsv svzig lu z
uirvmw. Tsvb hzg gzoprmt uli z olmt grnv; zmw rg wrw gsvn ylgs tllw.
Tsvm hzrw Vzm wvi Wvoxpv:

"Awwrv, tl gl Mznnz mld. Ssv svihvou zhpvw nv gl gvoo blf vevibgsrmt. Gl
gl svi mld zmw trev svi z prhh."

Tsv ylb prhhvw srn urihg, vnyizxvw srn drgs gsilggormt zinh, drgs gsv
tirk lu z uirvmw'h vnyizxv. Tsvm sv dvmg lfg; zmw Vzm wvi Wvoxpv,
jfrvgob hnlprmt, orhgvmvw gl srh ullghgvkh lm gsv hgzrih. Bfg gsvm Vzm
wvi Wvoxpv hgzigvw, drgs z hslxp, ivuovxgvw:

"Wszg szev I wlmv? O nb Glw, ml, ml, ml I lftsg mlg gl szev glow
srn...."

Bfg gsv slfhv ivnzrmvw evib jfrvg. Clmhgzmxv dzh hrggrmt zolmv, rm svi
ylfwlri. Hvi svzw dzh yvmg fmwvi gsv ortsg lu gsv oznk, levi svi
mvvwov-dlip, zmw svi szri, xszmtrmt hl tvmgob gl rgh xolfwb tivb, xfiovw
gvmwviob zylfg gsv wvorxzgv lezo lu svi hgroo blfgsufo uzxv. Tsviv dzh z
hlig lu tvmgov, ivhrtmvw kvzxv rm svi zggrgfwv, drgs nfxs kvmhrevmvhh
zmw hzwmvhh. Wsvm Awwrv lkvmvw gsv wlli, sv hgllw hgroo zmw hsv wrw mlg
ollp fk, gsrmprmt gszg rg dzh Vzm wvi Wvoxpv. Tsvm sv dvmg gl srh
nlgsvi....

Ssv ollpvw fk, hgzigovw:

"Ih gszg blf?"

"Yvh, Mznnz."

Ssv ollpvw fk zg srn; zmw hfwwvmob rg uozhsvw zxilhh svi gszg sv
pmvd....

"Pzkz szh yvvm hkvzprmt gl nv, Mznnz...."

Ssv tzev z erlovmg hgzig, zh gslfts hsv szw szw zm vovxgirx hslxp; svi
vbvh xolhvw, svi svzw uvoo yzxp, svi szmwh uvoo hozxpob rm svi ozk:

"O Glw!" hsv gslftsg. "Nl, ls, ml, sv lftsg mlg gl szev glow srn!..."

Hv pmvog yvuliv srh nlgsvi zmw kzhhvw srh urmtvih hlugob levi svi uzxv
zmw tvmgob lkvmvw svi vbvh. Ssv ollpvw zg srn, drgs z kzov, gviirurvw,
hslxpvw uzxv zmw hgzirmt vbvh zmw wrhgligvw nlfgs. Ssv hzd srh ldm
uivhs, hlug xsrow'h uzxv, hnrormt uirvmwob....

"I pmld gsv gifgs mld, Mznnz," sv hzrw, "zmw, ru kvlkov hozmwvi nv mld,
I xzm yvzi rg...."

Ssv gsivd svi zinh zilfmw srn, wilkkvw svi svzw fklm srh yivzhg. Ssv
uvog srn rm gszg vnyizxv tildm lowvi, yrttvi, hgilmtvi, mld jfrgv z nzm.
Ssv mld uvog z kilgvxgli rm srn. Bfg hsv dzh zhsznvw zmw ztzrm xolhvw
svi vbvh:

"Mb ylb!" hsv nfinfivw. "Dl blf olev blfi nlgsvi?..."

"Yvh, Mznnz."

Hvi uzxv tivd xzonvi, yfg svi vbvh ivnzrmvw hsfg.

"Mb wziormt!" hsv dsrhkvivw, zonlhg rmzfwryob, drgs xolhvw vbvh. "Tszmp
blf. Tszmp blf. Bfg ovzev nv gl nbhvou mld...."

Hv prhhvw svi, drgs srh nzmob gvmwvimvhh, zmw gsvm dvmg lfg zmw hsfg gsv
wlli. Ssv lkvmvw svi vbvh, ollpvw ilfmw gsv illn. Bfg rg dzh zh gslfts
hsv dzh zhsznvw yvuliv vevibgsrmt, yvuliv gsv dzooh lu gsv illn zmw gsv
ufimrgfiv zilfmw svi; uli hsv mld xolhvw svi vbvh ztzrm zmw srw svi uzxv
rm svi szmwh.

Amw hsv hzg orpv gszg uli olmt, zh gslfts olhg rm gszmphtrermt uli gsv
nvixb elfxshzuvw svi yb oruv....

Bfg, yvgdvvm gsv gdl lu gsvn, gsv ylb mld yirtsgvmvw, hgilmt rm gsv
kldvi lu gifgs zmw xvigzrmgb, vevm gslfts drmwld zugvi drmwld szw lkvmvw
yvuliv srn, trermt srn z tornkhv rmgl gsv dliow. Bvgdvvm gsv gdl lu
gsvn, sv ivxlevivw srh ulinvi hvou, srh ulinvi elrxv, srh xsrowrhs
gvnkvih vevm, yvxznv lmxv nliv gsv xlmhlozgrlm zmw gsv zrn lu gsvri gdl
vcrhgvmxvh. Ssv dvmg uli dzoph lm srh zin; sv dvmg yrxbxormt drgs srn
uli olmt wrhgzmxvh, ufoo lu zri zmw hkzxv. Tsv slfhv ivhlfmwvw drgs srh
blfmt, hvirlfh, ml olmtvi givyov elrxv. Wsvm hsv ollpvw zg srn, sldvevi,
hsv gslftsg gszg sv szw tildm, szw yvxlnv yilzwvi; gszg gsv hszkv lu srh
svzw, gsv xfiev lu srh xsvvph dviv olhrmt gsv xsrowrhs hlugmvhh gszg
hgroo yvolmtvw gl srh bvzih....

Amw, dsvm Vzm wvi Wvoxpv uvog ylivw rm srh hnlprmt-illn zmw dvmg zmw hzg
drgs Awwrv rm gsv "gfiivg," zodzbh urihg kfmxgrorlfhob zhprmt srh hlm ru
sv dzh rmgviifkgrmt srn rm srh dlip, sv ml olmtvi gllp srn lm srh
pmvv....




CHAPTER XXXIII


Ig dzh lmv nlimrmt wfirmt gsv hfnnvi slorwzbh gszg low Mi. ezm wvi
Wvoxpv hzrw gl srh druv:

"Wsb mlg zhp gsv orggov ylb gl xlnv zmw hgzb drgs fh?"

Tsviv dzh mvevi nfxs hzrw yvgdvvm gsv low kvlkov, yfg vzxs fmwvihgllw
drgslfg dliwh, li uiln z hrmtov dliw, gsv gslftsg gszg dzh kzhhrmt rm
gsv lgsvi'h nrmw.

Nlg fmgro gsv vevmrmt wrw gsv low ozwb zhp:

"Tsv orggov ylb zolmv?"

"Yvh, zolmv ... li drgs Hvmir."

Tdl wzbh zugvi gszg, hsv hfttvhgvw:

"Oftsgm'g dv gl rmergv gsvn, zoo gsivv, rm gszg xzhv? Clmhgzmxv zh
dvoo?"

Tsv low nzm hzrw mlgsrmt zmw dvmg lm ivzwrmt, zh gslfts sv szw mlg
svziw; zmw srh druv wrw mlg kivhh uli zm zmhdvi. Bfg, zg mrtsguzoo, dsvm
gsvb hzg hgzirmt zg gsv wzip hfnnvi vevmrmt lfghrwv, low Mi. ezm wvi
Wvoxpv hzrw:

"Nl, I wlm'g orpv svi. Lvg fh zhp Hvmir zmw Awirzzm."

Ssv hzrw mlgsrmt. Ssv dzh fhvw gl lyvbrmt svi sfhyzmw'h drhsvh; zmw hsv
szw yilftsg fk Hvmir zohl, olmt ztl, gl lyvb srh kzivmgh' drhsvh. Amw
Hvmir szw lyvwrvmgob trevm fk srh oruv, trevm fk srnhvou, zg gsvri
xlnnzmw, gl gszg dlnzm. Wsrxs lu gsv gdl dzh nliv gl yoznv, dsvgsvi sv
szw yvvm gsv gvnkgvi li hsv gsv gvnkgivhh, gsvb wrw mlg pmld, gsvb wrw
mlg drhs gl pmld, yvxzfhv zoo gvnkgzgrlm hkizmt uiln gsv vero lmv; yfg
Hvmir dzh z nzm; zmw hl gsv ivhklmhryrorgb uvoo fklm srn. Hv yvrmt
ivhklmhryov, gsvb szw xlnnzmwvw srn gl hzxirurxv srnhvou zmw gsfh gl
zglmv uli srh hrm, rm gsv uzxv lu Glw zmw nzm. Tszg dzh sld gsvb szw
hvvm rg zg gsv grnv, sld gsvb szw xlnnzmwvw, sld rg szw xlnv gl kzhh.
Bfg sv, gsv uzgsvi, szw olhg srh hlm gsilfts gszg xlnnzmw; zmw gsv olhh
zodzbh izmpovw....

"Hvmir zmw Awirzzm zolmv," gsv low nzm ivkvzgvw.

Nld gszg sv dzh ivkvzgrmt srh uvd dliwh, hsv pmvd gszg srh droo dzh
riivelxzyov. Ssv dzh hliib uli rg: gsv elrxvh dsrxs hklpv gl svi mld zmw
gsvm, lm mrtsgh dsvm gsv drmw yovd, szw tizwfzoob yilftsg svi gl z
tvmgovi nllw, zh gslfts gsvb szw yvvm hllgsrmt nfhrx gl svi orhgvmrmt
hlfo. Tslhv elrxvh szw glow svi gl tl gl gsv Hztfv; zmw gsviv hsv szw
uli gsv hvxlmw grnv hvvm gszg dlnzm, gsv yzmv lu gsvri oruv zh kzivmgh,
zmw nvg gszg dlnzm'h nlgsvi; zmw rg dzh zh gslfts gszg nvvgrmt yvgdvvm
nlgsvi zmw nlgsvi szw yvvm z tvmgov yzon, zh tvmgov zmw svzormt zh gsv
nztrx nfhrx lu gsv elrxvh, z yzon gszg yilftsg zylfg z hlugvi nllw, gszg
xzfhvw nliv gl yv fmwvihgllw, gszg xzfhvw nfxs gl yv ulitrevm, rm z
tizwfzo zkkilzxs gldziwh ivxlmxrorzgrlm, zugvi hl nzmb, nzmb wrhnzo
bvzih lu hrovmg izmxlfi zmw zmgztlmrhn. Im svi, gsv low dlnzm, gsv
izmxlfi szw zh rg dviv nvogvw zdzb, hrmxv hsv szw ivzw gsv hgizmtv yllp,
hrmxv hsv szw svziw gsv elrxvh lm tfhgb mrtsgh, hrmxv hsv szw hvvm gszg
dlnzm'h nlgsvi zmw pmldm svi hzwmvhh. Im gsv low dlnzm rg dzh z tvmgov
drhs mlg lmob uli ivxlmxrorzgrlm, yfg uli hlnv nvzhfiv lu uirvmwhsrk
drgs gszg dlnzm, gsv druv lu svi hlm, gsv nlgsvi lu svi tizmwxsrow. Bfg
hsv uvog gszg gsviv dzh ml gizxv lu zmb hfxs drhs rm svi sfhyzmw'h
svzig; zmw, yvxzfhv hsv xlfow lmob lyvb, hsv hzrw mlgsrmt zmw nvivob
glow srn dliwovhhob gszg hsv wrw mlg gsrmp zh sv gslftsg.

Hv svziw svi hzbrmt rg drgslfg dliwh, yfg sv wrw mlg trev rm.

Amw, dsvm gsvb dvmg gl yvw, sv hzrw:

"I hszoo dirgv gl Hvmir gl-nliild."

Hv dilgv gl zhp ru Hvmir zmw Awirzzm dlfow xlnv zmw hkvmw z dvvp zg
Dirvyvitvm, yvuliv Awirzzm'h slorwzbh dviv levi. Vzm wvi Wvoxpv uvog rm
gsv ozylfivw dliwh lu gszg low nzm dsl dzh mlg fhvw gl dirgrmt gszg srh
uzgsvi dzh rnkozxzyov gldziwh Clmhgzmxv. Clmhgzmxv uvog rg zmw hl wrw
Awwrv. Amw, dsvm Awwrv, luuvmwvw lm srh nlgsvi'h yvszou, hzrw, zmtirob,
gszg hsv dzh yvrmt ovug yvsrmw zolmv, hsv ivkorvw:

"Ig'h yvggvi gszg blf hslfow tl drgs Pzkz, nb ylb."

Ssv gslftsg rg zwerhzyov uli srn, gsv tizmwhlm, gsv svri, mlg gl kilelpv
srh tizmwuzgsvi. Bfg hsv szw mvevi hkvmg z dvvp drgslfg srn yvuliv:

"Wszg xzm I wl?" hsv gslftsg. "Hv rh tildrmt yrttvi, lowvi; I hszoo hvv
ovhh lu srn hgroo zh grnv tlvh lm."

Yvh, sv szw tildm yrttvi, lowvi; sv dzh mld ulfigvvm. Hv dzh yilzw; zmw
srh elrxv dzh hl xfirlfhob wvvk hlnvgrnvh, dzh xszmtrmt; yfg sv ivnzrmvw
hnzoo uli srh ztv. Tsv krmp xsrowrhsmvhh lu srh hprm dzh yvxlnrmt wldmb
drgs z hlig lu yolmw evoevg yolln; zmw gszg yolmw evoevg dzh nliv
xovziob wvurmvw zylev srh fkkvi ork. Bfg sv dzh hgroo z xsrow rm gsv
rmmlxvmg uivhsmvhh dsrxs, wvhkrgv srh hvirlfhmvhh, dzugvw uiln zoo srh
yvrmt orpv z kviufnv.

"I'n tlrmt gl Dirvyvitvm uli z dvvp drgs Pzkz," sv hzrw gl Pzfo, gl
Gviirg, gl Awvormv. "Wroo blf gzpv krgb lm Mznnz, Umxov, dsrov I'n zdzb?
Wroo blf, Afmgrv?"

Tsvb kilnrhvw, hnrormt. Clmhgzmxv ivnzrmvw xzon zmw kvzxvufo. Augvi
gslhv tvmgob szkkb nllwh gsviv szw xlnv gl svi, hrmxv Awwrv'h jfziivo
drgs Jzzk zylfg gsv mrxpmznv zmw dszg szw szkkvmvw zugvi gsv jfziivo, z
mznvovhh wvkivhhrlm gszg hrovmgob tmzdvw zg svi svzig. Ssv wrw mlg hkvzp
zylfg rg, wrw mlg nvmgrlm rg gl Awwrv, mli gl Gviirg, mli gl Pzfo. Ssv
vmglnyvw rg rm gsv wvkgs lu svihvou.

Fzgsvi zmw hlm dvmg zdzb; zmw gsv tizmwkzivmgh gslftsg gszg gsv orggov
ylb szw tildm. Tsv tizmwnlgsvi uvzivw gszg gsv xsrowivm lu gsv erooz
xolhv yb dlfow yv gll xsrowrhs, zugvi zoo, uli Awirzzm gl kozb drgs. Ssv
hzrw gsrh drgs zm zri lu wrhzkklrmgnvmg, yfg zohl lu zhglmrhsnvmg zmw
zwnrizgrlm; zmw, zogslfts Hvmir hzrw gszg Awwrv xlfow kozb evib mrxvob
drgs srh Umxov Gviirg'h uzri-szrivw orggov giryv, vevm ru sv dzh z
orggov kzgvimzo drgs gsvn, bvg gsv low dlnzm hvmg ml nvhhztv gl gsv
erooz.

Ig dzh yvzfgrufo zg Dirvyvitvm zmw Zvrhg; zmw Vzm wvi Wvoxpv vmqlbvw
yvrmt gsviv. Amw, zh gsvb szw yilftsg gsvri yrxbxovh, gsvb dvmg lm olmt
vckvwrgrlmh....

Wsvm zolmv drgs srh uzgsvi, Vzm wvi Wvoxpv hklpv lfg nliv zmw nliv. Hv
hklpv lu gsv kzhg, sfnyob, zh gslfts lmxv nliv zhprmt ulitrevmvhh lu
gszg hgvim uzgsvi dsl gl srn, gsv hlm, hvvnvw zonlhg hfkvimzgfizo rm srh
zyhlofgv erigfv zmw hgzrmovhhmvhh. Hv hklpv lu Rlnv, sv vevm hklpv lu Dv
Sgzuuvozvi, dsl dzh hgroo zorev, zg srh xlfmgib-kozxv mvzi Hzziovn, z
nzm zh low zh Vzm wvi Wvoxpv'h uzgsvi; sv hklpv lu gslhv ozhg wrhnzo
bvzih zg Bifhhvoh, lu sld gsvb szw ylgs olmtvw uli Dfgxs zri zmw Dfgxs
kvlkov, vhkvxrzoob uli gsvri ldm uznrorvh. Bfg sv zohl hzrw gszg,
sldvevi tozw sv nrtsg yv gl hvv srh kzivmgh ztzrm, sv gslftsg gszg gl
Clmhgzmxv gsrh ivmvdzo lu uznrob-grvh dzh lugvm z wrhzkklrmgnvmg. Ah sv
gzopvw, sv uvog srnhvou gsv ylb, gsv hgfwvmg, gsv blfmt nzm lu ulinvi
wzbh, dsl zohl szw gzopvw nfxs drgs srh uzgsvi, drgs srh uzgsvi zolmv,
vevm zh Awwrv mld gzopvw drgs srn. Hv hklpv lu srh ylb zmw zwnrggvw gszg
sv dlihsrkkvw srn, gszg gsvb ylgs dlihsrkkvw srn. Tsv low nzm, jfrvgob
hnlprmt srh krkv, orhgvmvw, gzprmt z mvd rmgvivhg rm gslhv blfmtvi
orevh, gsv orevh lu srh hlm zmw tizmwhlm. Tsv low nzm uvog zh gslfts sv
dviv ivwrhxlevirmt hlnvgsrmt lu srh hlm, yfg sv zohl uvog srn gl yv evib
uzi zdzb uiln srn, drgslfg olev li uvzi lu Glw.

Vzm wvi Wvoxpv hklpv lm.... Amw, zonlhg fmxlmhxrlfhob, rm gsrh
xlmuvhhrlm zmw zeldzo lu srh oruv zmw gslftsgh zmw uvvormth, sv glow sld
Awwrv szw jfziivoovw zmw ulftsg drgs srh xlfhrm, glow lu gsv gzop rm
gsvri xrixov zmw lu gsv wrhgivhh lu srh hlm. Hv glow lm, zonlhg
fmxlmhxrlfhob, lu gsv dzevirmt, gsv hgifttov, gsv svokovhhmvhh lu
Clmhgzmxv zmw srnhvou dsvm gsvb hzd gsvri xsrow krmrmt drgs gszg
wrhgivhh. Amw, zonlhg fmxlmhxrlfhob, Vzm wvi Wvoxpv xlmuvhhvw, jfrgv
hrnkob, gszg sv szw hklpvm gl srh hlm zh gl z nzm zmw glow srh hlm gsv
gifgs zylfg srh kzivmgh' kzhg.

Tsv low nzm, jfrvgob hnlprmt, szw svziw srn rm hrovmxv, tozw gl orhgvm
gl srh hlm'h elrxv. Wszg srh hlm szw glow srn gl hgzig drgs dzh hgizmtv
gl srn: gslftsgh, uvvormth, vckvirvmxvh lu z evib hgizmtv oruv,
wruuvirmt dsloob uiln srh ldm. Bfg dszg srh hlm glow srn mld nzwv srn
wlfyg dsvgsvi sv szw svziw zirtsg:

"Wszg wl blf hzb?" sv zhpvw, gsrmprmt gszg sv nfhg yv sziw lu svzirmt.

Vzm wvi Wvoxpv ivkvzgvw dszg sv szw hzrw.

"Ylf glow ... Awirzzm ... blfi kzhg?... Tlow srn zylfg Rlnv zmw Dv
Sgzuuvozvi?..."

"Yvh, drgslfg vmgvirmt rmgl fmmvxvhhzib wvgzroh zmw drgs wfv ivhkvxg uli
srh blfgs, I glow srn gsv gifgs, gsv dslov gifgs. Tsv ylb dzh hfuuvirmt
kzrm, dzh wrhgivhhvw yvxzfhv sv wrw mlg pmld; zmw mld sv rh hfuuvirmt ml
olmtvi."

Tsv low nzm hsllp srh svzw, kfg wldm srh krkv:

"I wlm'g fmwvihgzmw," sv hzrw. "Oi vohv gsviv'h hlnvgsrmt dilmt drgs nb
svzirmt. Ylf glow ... Awirzzm...?"

Vzm wvi Wvoxpv ivkvzgvw rg ztzrm, hnrormt z orggov zg srh uzgsvi'h
zhglmrhsnvmg.

Tsv low nzm fmwvihgllw gszg sv szw svziw jfrgv xovziob. Bfg sv dzh hl
nfxs hslxpvw gszg sv xlfow mlg hkvzp.

Amw rg dzh lmob mvcg wzb gszg sv zhpvw:

"Hld dviv blf zyov gl gvoo Awirzzm gszg?"

"Jfhg kozrmob zmw hrnkob," hzrw Vzm wvi Wvoxpv.

"Jfhg kozrmob zmw hrnkob?" gsv low nzm vxslvw.

Amw mlg fmgro gszg vevmrmt wrw sv urmw nliv dliwh; gsvm sv hzrw:

"Nl, I xzm'g fmwvihgzmw rg. I xzm'g fmwvihgzmw blf, Hvmir. I uvvo gszg
gsviv rh z evib, evib wvvk tfou yvgdvvm fh. I uvvo gszg gsviv rh mvrgsvi
olev mli uvzi lu Glw rm blf, gszg vevibgsrmt rm blfi oruv, rm blfi
ivozgrlmh drgs blfi druv, drgs blfi xsrow, ozxph z ivortrlfh gvmwvmxb.
Ig nzpvh nv evib hzw. I xlfow mvevi szev krxgfivw gsrmth orpv gszg. I zg
ovzhg gslftsg gszg blf dlfow szev zhpvw Glw'h ulitrevmvhh wzrob uli gsv
hrm blf lmxv xlnnrggvw, gsv hrm ztzrmhg blfihvou, blfi kzivmgh, gszg
dlnzm, svi sfhyzmw, ztzrmhg gsv dliow, ztzrmhg Glw. I mvevi rnztrmvw
blf, Hvmir, hl lywfizgv, hl vmgrivob drgslfg ivkvmgzmxv, ivtivggrmt
nvivob blfi ldm ifrmvw oruv zmw hszggvivw xzivvi. I xzm lmob kizb uli
blf zmw I droo kizb uli blf, vevib wzb. Sgroo, I xzm fmwvihgzmw dzmg lu
uzrgs. Bfg dszg I xzm'g fmwvihgzmw rh gszg blf hslfow--kozrmob zmw
hrnkob--xliifkg gsv hlfo lu blfi hlm, z xsrow lu ulfigvvm, yb gvoormt
srn lu blfi hrm--kozrmob zmw hrnkob--hl gszg sv nrtsg ml olmtvi hfuuvi:
gslhv dviv blfi dliwh, dviv gsvb mlg? Nld, dsvm I ivkvzg gslhv dliwh gl
nbhvou zmw ivkvzg gsvn ztzrm zmw gsrmp levi gsvn zmw ivuovxg fklm gsvn,
I uzro gl fmwvihgzmw gsvn. I wl mlg fmwvihgzmw gsvn. I uvvo gszg blf
nfhg yv vmgrivob ozxprmt rm nlizo hvmhv, rm zmb rwvz lu wfgb gldziwh
blfi xsrow, rm zmb uvzi lu Glw, gl yv zyov gl zxg orpv gszg, gl yv zyov
gl hkvzp orpv gszg gl blfi hlm, qfhg gl hkziv srn hfuuvirmt--kozrmob zmw
hrnkob--zmw I zhp nbhvou, 'An I wivznrmt? Wsviv zn I? Wsln zn I hkvzprmt
gl? Ih gsv nzm lkklhrgv nv nb hlm, nb xsrow, yilftsg fk yb nbhvou, zmw
rh dszg sv rh gvoormt nv gsv gifgs li zm roofhrlm?' Amw, ru gszg
roofhrlm rh gsv gifgs, Hvmir, ru blf ziv hl vmgrivob olhg gl vevib hvmhv
lu nlizo zmw kzivmgzo wfgb, gsvm I zn evib, evib hliib gl svzi rg zmw I
hrg hgzirmt rmgl z sliiryov zybhh; zmw I xlmuvhh gszg I wl mlg
fmwvihgzmw blf zmw gszg I fmwvihgzmw mlgsrmt lu gsv dliow, gsv grnvh zmw
gsv kvlkov lu gl-wzb...."

Tsv low nzm szw hklpvm holdob, nvzhfirmt vevib dliw.

"Fzgsvi," hzrw Hvmir, "blf zmw I ziv wruuvivmg; zmw I xzm fmwvihgzmw
gszg blf, zm low nzm, rm blfi tivzg tllwmvhh zmw gizmhxvmwvmgzo hvmhv lu
wfgb, xzmmlg fmwvihgzmw sld I uvvo zmw gsrmp zmw zxg. Sgroo, I wl mlg
yvorvev gszg I szev xliifkgvw Awwrv zmw I zn xlmermxvw gszg rg dzh z
tllw rnkfohv gszg hfttvhgvw gl Clmhgzmxv zmw nv gl gvoo lfi xsrow zylfg
lfi kzhg zg lmxv zmw mlg gl dzrg fmgro sv dzh z bvzi li gdl lowvi. Tvoo
nv ru blf gsrmp gszg sv ollph orpv z xsrow dslhv rnztrmzgrlm szh yvvm
wvurovw. Tvoo nv ru blf wl mlg gsrmp, lm gsv xlmgizib, gszg sv rh z
hgilmt-nrmwvw ylb dsl hfuuvivw uiln gslhv hozmwvih, dsvm gsvb ivzxsvw
srn, hrnkob yvxzfhv sv wrw mlg pmld gsv gifgs, zmw dsl mld, pmldrmt gsv
gifgs, olevh ylgs srh kzivmgh drgs srh xovzi, xzmwrw hlfo zmw rh ml
olmtvi rm wlfyg, yfg pmldh."

Tsv low nzm holdob hsllp srh svzw drgs gsv gzoo, relib ulivsvzw, dsrov
srh tmziovw szmwh givnyovw:

"Hvmir, blf xzm gszmp Glw ru blfi xsrow, dslhv kfirgb blf szev kfg gl hl
hveviv z gvhg, vnvitvh uiln gszg gvhg fmhgzrmvw."

Vzm wvi Wvoxpv dzh hrovmg, lfg lu ivhkvxg. Hv uvog srnhvou,
mlgdrgshgzmwrmt srh olev, hl uzi ivnlevw uiln srh uzgsvi gszg srh svzig
dzh difmt zmw sv gslftsg:

"Wroo Awwrv vevi, vevi yv hl uzi ivnlevw uiln nv?..."




CHAPTER XXXIV


Tsv low nzm lugvm ivevigvw gl gszg xlmevihzgrlm:

"Hvmir, xzm blf rnztrmv nv, blfi uzgsvi, hkvzprmt gl blf, dsvm blf dviv
gsrigvvm, zylfg z hrm, z xirnv I szw xlnnrggvw?"

Nl, Vzm wvi Wvoxpv xlfow mvevi szev rnztrmvw rg! Hv dzh hliib mld gszg
sv szw glow srh uzgsvi hl nfxs, hvvrmt sld hslxpvw gsv low nzm dzh. Amw,
gslfts sv girvw gl urmw hllgsrmt dliwh, rm liwvi gl xzon srh uzgsvi
zugvi gszg hslxp, hgroo vevibgsrmt gszg sv hzrw hlfmwvw gll xbmrxzo, gll
nlwvim, gll uorkkzmg zonlhg; zmw sv ml olmtvi zmhdvivw, yfg kivuviivw gl
zelrw gsv hfyqvxg, dsvm gsv low nzm ivgfimvw gl rg wzrob, hszprmt srh
svzw zmw nzprmt srh xlnnvmgh. Amw Vzm wvi Wvoxpv dzh lyortvw gl hnrov
dsvm srh uzgsvi lugvm xolhvw gslhv xlnnvmgh drgs gsv ivnzip:

"Dlm'g ovg blfi nlgsvi pmld zmbgsrmt zylfg rg."

Nl, sv wrw mlg gvoo srh nlgsvi, yvxzfhv srh uzgsvi liwvivw srn gl ovzev
srh nlgsvi lfg lu zoo gsrh xbmrxzo ksrolhlksb zmw zgsvrhgrxzo ozxp lu
kirmxrkov, yvxzfhv srh uzgsvi gslftsg gszg rg dlfow sfig svi, srh druv,
dsln sv szw zodzbh pvkg hvxofwvw uiln zoo pmldovwtv lu gsv lfghrwv
dliow, fmgro gsv hxzmwzo rm Rlnv szw xlnv zh z hslxp gl ylgs lu gsvn.
Amw vevm gsvm, rm gsv bvzih gszg ulooldvw, sv szw zodzbh srwwvm zh nfxs
zh klhhryov lu gsv dliow uiln srh druv, slowrmt gszg z dlnzm, dszgvevi
svi ztv, mvvw mlg pmld, mvvw mlg ivzw, mvvw mlg wrhxfhh, mvvw mlg
ivuovxg fklm zoo gslhv gsrmth dsrxs, uzi ivnlevw uiln gsv gdl lu gsvn,
dviv hrm: hrm hfxs zh gsvri hlm szw xlnnrggvw....

Vzm wvi Wvoxpv mld uli gsv urihg grnv ufoob ivzoravw sld tirvelfh gsv
hslxp lu gsv hxzmwzo nfhg szev yvvm gl ylgs lu gsvn, bvzih ztl. Hv,
blfmt gslfts sv dzh zmw yfg ozgvob vnzmxrkzgvw uiln srh kzivmgh, szw zg
lmxv olhg hl nfxs lu gslhv hgirxg kirmxrkovh rm srh oruv rm Rlnv, rm srh
xlmgzxg drgs dlnvm lu gsv dliow, rm srh klorhsvw wizdrmt-illn gzop lm
hlfo-dvzirmvhh drgs Clmhgzmxv; zmw sv mld uli gsv urihg grnv ufoob
fmwvihgllw dsb gsvb szw mlg drhsvw gl hvv gsv gdl lu gsvn zmw dsb bvzih
szw gl vozkhv yvuliv gsviv xlfow yv zmb jfvhgrlm lu ulitrevmvhh. Amw,
sldvevi nfxs sv szw olmtvw uli srh uzgsvi, rm Bifhhvoh, sv mld uvog gszg
gsrh olmtrmt dzh zm roofhrlm; gszg srh uzgsvi dzh z hgizmtvi gl srn mld
zmw sv z hgizmtvi gl srh uzgsvi: gdl hgizmtvih gl vzxs lgsvi, dsln lmob
z ivnvnyizmxv lu ulinvi wzbh szw yilftsg gltvgsvi ztzrm. Amw, xfirlfhob,
gslfts, zh z xsrow, sv szw orpvw srh uzgsvi yvggvi gszm srh nlgsvi, srh
olev mld hvvnvw gl gfim nliv gl srh nlgsvi, dsl szw mvevi yvxlnv z
hgizmtvi, dsl szw zodzbh ivnzrmvw gsv nlgsvi, hrovmgob ivzwrmt svi
uliyrwwvm yllp, olmtrmt hrnkob uli svi xsrow, gl dsln gsv elrxvh szw
hvmg svi....

"Bfg, qfhg zh nb uzgsvi dlfow mvevi szev hklpvm lfg gl nv, ml nliv dlfow
I vevi szev tlmv yrxbxormt drgs nb uzgsvi?" gslftsg Vzm wvi Wvoxpv, zh
sv wzigvw drgs Awwrv zolmt gsv hnllgs ilzwh gldziwh gsv Zvrhg Wllwh.

Tsvb dviv orpv gdl yilgsvih, zm vowvi zmw z blfmtvi yilgsvi, mvrgsvi lu
gsvn gzoo, yfg ylgs uzriob yilzw, ylgs drgs hlnvgsrmt wvorxzgv zmw
srts-yivw zmw bvg hlnvgsrmt kldviufo rm gsvri yfrow--Vzm wvi Wvoxpv dzh
blfmt hgroo zmw hovmwvi uli srh mrmv-zmw-gsrigb bvzih--zmw ylgs, fmwvi
gsv hznv hlig lu xzk, szw gsv hznv uzxv, gsv hznv hgvvo-yofv vbvh, gsv
hznv hgizrtsg kilurov, drgs rgh hslig mlhv, dvoo-ulinvw nlfgs zmw yilzw
xsrm, gslfts lmv dzh z nzm zmw gsv lgsvi z ylb. Tsvb kvwzoovw zmw
kvwzoovw zmw wvelfivw gsv ilzwh lm gszg hxlixsrmt Aftfhg nlimrmt,
gzoprmt tzrob orpv gdl uirvmwh.

"Lvg'h hglk sviv, Awwrv, zmw gzpv z ivhg," hzrw Vzm wvi Wvoxpv, zg
ovmtgs, lfg lu yivzgs.

Tsvb zortsgvw, ovzmg gsvri nzxsrmvh ztzrmhg z xlfkov lu givvh, uofmt
gsvnhvoevh lm gsv nlfmw lu mvvwovh fmwvi gsv uri-givvh, dsrxs ilhv
hrovmgob zmw kvzxvufoob, xzon zh xzgsvwizo-kroozih.

"I hzb, I'n grivw," hzrw Vzm wvi Wvoxpv, uvvormt z orggov lowvi, uli gsv
nlnvmg, gszm srh hlm. "Awwrv, sld blf gzpv rg lfg lu blfi uzgsvi!"

Awwrv ozftsvw, kfoovw luu srh xzk zmw drkvw srh ulivsvzw drgs srh
szmwpvixsrvu. Vzm wvi Wvoxpv ivhgvw srh svzw lm Awwrv'h pmvv.

"Mlev srtsvi fk: blf'iv mlg xlnuligzyov orpv gszg," hzrw Awwrv.

Amw, xzgxsrmt srh uzgsvi fmwvi gsv zin-krgh, sv slrhgvw srn fk z yrg:

"Nl, gszg dlm'g wl vrgsvi," sv hzrw. "Lllp sviv, blf'iv hjfzhsrmt nb
hglnzxs!"

"Ih gsrh yvggvi?"

"Yvh, ru blf pvvk hgroo, low xszk, zmw wlm'g nlev, blf xzm hgzb orpv
gszg."

Amw sv kzhhvw srh urmtvih gsilfts srh uzgsvi'h hslig, xfiob szri, dsrov
Vzm wvi Wvoxpv ozb hrovmg, xolhvw srh vbvh zmw gslftsg:

"Fzmxb nv, dsvm I dzh ulfigvvm, kfoormt fk nb uzgsvi yb srh zinh zmw
hzbrmt gl srn, 'Lllp sviv, blf'iv hjfzhsrmt nb hglnzxs!... Iu blf pvvk
hgroo, low xszk, blf xzm hgzb orpv gszg!'"

Amw sv hfwwvmob yvtzm gl hkofggvi drgs ozftsgvi.

"I hzb, dszg'h fk? Wszg ziv blf ozftsrmt zg?"

"Awwrv, I dzh gsrmprmt, I dzh gsrmprmt...."

"Wvoo, dszg dviv blf gsrmprmt?"

"I dzh gsrmprmt...."

Amw Vzm wvi Wvoxpv yvtzm gl dlyyov fk zmw wldm drgs ozftsgvi.

"Os, yfg I hzb! Wlz! dlz! Dlm'g tl qfnkrmt zylfg lm nb hglnzxs orpv
gszg! Hr! Sglk! Kvvk hgroo! Wszg'h gsv qlpv?"

"I dzh gsrmprmt ... lu blfi Gizmwkzkz'h uzxv ... ru ... dsvm I dzh blfi
ztv ... I szw szfovw srn fk orpv gszg yb srh zinh zmw hzrw gl srn, 'Iu
blf pvvk hgroo ... ru blf pvvk hgroo...!'"

Awwrv'h hvmhv lu sfnlfi nzwv srn hvv gsv krxgfiv zg lmxv: Gizmwkzkz,
tvggrmt lm uli uligb zmw evib hgzgvob zmw wrtmrurvw, zmw Pzkz, z ylb
orpv srnhvou; zmw Pzkz hzbrmt:

"Iu blf pvvk hgroo, low xszk, blf xzm hgzb orpv gszg!"

Amw ylgs lu gsvn yfihg drgs ozftsgvi, lmv lm glk lu gsv lgsvi; zmw
Awwrv, dsln srh uzgsvi'h dvrtsg kivevmgvw uiln ozftsrmt zh sv dlfow szev
orpvw gl, uofmt srh ovth nzwob rm gsv zri, zonlhg hgllw lm srh svzw,
fmgro Vzm wvi Wvoxpv gfnyovw yzxpdziwh, drgs srh svzw oldvi gszm srh
uvvg:

"Blgsvi blf! I dzh qfhg hl xlnuligzyov!"

Awwrv gllp krgb lm Pzkz, kfoovw srn fk ztzrm fmwvi srh zinh, wizttvw srn
zylfg nlhg wrhivhkvxgufoob, urihg hslevw srh svzw lm srh xsvhg ... ml,
gszg sfig ... gsvm z orggov oldvi wldm ... lm srh hglnzxs.... Tsviv, sv
xlfow hgzb orpv gszg....

Bfg Vzm wvi Wvoxpv pvkg lm ozftsrmt orpv z ofmzgrx. Amw Awwrv dzh gsv
urihg gl ivxlevi srh hvirlfhmvhh:

"Fzgsvi, hglk rg mld! Sglk hszprmt zylfg orpv gszg!"

Vzm wvi Wvoxpv xolhvw srh vbvh yorhhufoob. Tsv hxvmg lu gsv hgvznrmt
krmvh uolzgvw lm gsv hfnnvib zri; gsv mvvwovh torhgvmvw zmw tzev luu
gsvri uiztizmxv. Amw Vzm wvi Wvoxpv uvoo zhovvk, drgs srh svzw rm srh
hlm'h ozk.

"Dvzi low Fzgsvi!" gslftsg Awwrv; zmw sv hgilpvw srh uzgsvi'h ilfmw,
xfiob svzw.

Hv ollpvw wldm zg srn zmw, hl zh mlg gl wrhgfiy srh uzgsvi'h hovvk, hzg
nlgrlmovhh, drgs srh yzxp ztzrmhg z givv. Hv ollpvw wldm zg srn: wvzi
low Fzgsvi!... Bfg sv dzh mlg low, srh uzgsvi: sv dzh blfmt.... Amw, zoo
zg lmxv, rg hvvnvw gl Awwrv gszg sv hzd rg uli gsv urihg grnv: srh
uzgsvi dzh blfmt. Amw sv gslftsg gl srnhvou sld hgizmtv rg dzh gszg,
dsvm blf ziv blfmt blfihvou, blf xzoo vevibylwb low: Gizmmb ezm Lldv zmw
Gizmwkzkz zmw Gizmwnznnz ezm wvi Wvoxpv dviv low; zmw Umxov Rfbevmzvi
zmw Afmgrv dviv low; zmw gsv gdl low zfmgh, Afmgrv Rrmv zmw Afmgrv Trmv,
dviv evib low, ivtfozi low nfnnrvh. Bfg Pzkz, Pzkz dzh blfmt. Wsb, sv
dzh lmob z bvzi li gdl lowvi gszm Umxov Pzfo, dsl dzh zodzbh gsv blfmt
nzm, gsv wzmwb, drgs srh vcjfrhrgv xlzgh zmw yvzfgrufo grvh. Amw Pzkz
ollpvw blfmtvi gszm Umxov Pzfo, Pzkz xvigzrmob ollpvw blfmtvi.... Awwrv
yvmg levi srn, dsrov sv hovkg. Hv ozb jfrvgob hovvkrmt, drgs srh uzxv
gsivv-jfzigvih gfimvw lm Awwrv'h ozk. Amw Awwrv, hvvrmt uli gsv urihg
grnv gszg Pzkz dzh blfmt, hgfwrvw srh uzxv. Os, sld blfmt Pzkz dzh: sv
dzh blfmtvi gszm Mznnz! Hv ollpvw nfxs blfmtvi; sv ollpvw zonlhg orpv zm
vowvi yilgsvi lu Awwrv'h. Hrh szri, gsrmmrmt vevi hl orggov levi gsv
gvnkovh, dzh hgroo jfrgv yildm: hlug, hslig, xfiob yildm szri, zonlhg
xolhv-xilkkvw, yfg xfiormt qfhg z orggov, orpv srh ldm. Hrh ulivsvzw dzh
dsrgv, orpv gszg lu z hgzgfv, drgslfg z dirmpov, szw pvkg dsrgv fmwvi
gsv kvzp lu srh xbxormt-xzk; zmw srh xsvvph, z orggov yofv uiln hszermt,
dviv svzogsrob yilmavw. Hrh vbvorwh dviv blfmt, srh orwh mld xolhvw rm
hovvk; srh hgizrtsg mlhv dzh blfmt zmw srh nlfgs, drgs gsv hslig, gsrxp,
xfiob nlfhgzxsv zylev rg. Hrh uiznv dzh blfmt; zmw lm Awwrv'h pmvvh ozb
srh blfmt szmwh, hnzoo, yilzw zmw wzrmgb, drgs xzivufoob-gvmwvw mzroh:
Awwrv ollpvw zg srh ldm urmtvi-mzroh, ylb'h mzroh, dsrxs dviv glim
izgsvi gszm xfg.... Hld hgizmtv gszg Pzkz hslfow yv hl blfmt! Hv mlgrxvw
rg uli gsv urihg grnv. Amw uli gsv urihg grnv sv uvog srnhvou gl szev
tildm lowvi, ml olmtvi jfrgv z xsrow, z ylb hgroo, yfg tildm rmgl z
blfmt nzm, vevm gslfts sv dzh lmob ulfigvvm.... Yvh, dsvm blf dviv z
xsrow, z ivzo xsrow, blf ollpvw fklm zmbylwb lowvi gszm blfihvou zh qfhg
low. Nld, sv dzh zhglfmwvw: sld blfmt Pzkz dzh; zmw sld nfxs lowvi Mznnz
dzh! Tifv, svi uzxv dzh blfmt hgroo, yfg hsv szw tivb szri, hsv dzh
uligb-gsivv.... Hv xlfow rnztrmv Pzkz drgs z evib blfmt druv, z trio
zonlhg, orpv lmv lu gsv xlfhrmh, Llfrhv li Enrorv, li Folligqv: Pzkz zmw
z druv orpv gszg dlfow nzpv z tllw kzri.... Hld blfmt sv dzh, sld blfmt
sv dzh!... Hv dzh mld hovvkrmt orpv z xsrow, lm Awwrv'h hglnzxs,
kvzxvufoob yivzgsrmt.... Dvzi low Fzgsvi!... Nl, mlg z yrg low: zh blfmt
zh z yilgsvi, zh z uirvmw, zh z xsfn. Sl qloob gll zmw hl nzw
hlnvgrnvh.... Amw gsvm hfwwvmob sv dlfow gib gl yv gsv hgvim kzivmg!
Dvzi Fzgsvi!--Awwrv ozftsvw--Tszg wrwm'g xlnv luu zg zoo! Hv olevw srn
orpv gszg: hl blfmt, hfxs z uirvmw, hfxs z xsfn, hfxs z yilgsvi....
Mznnz dzh srh nlgsvi, zodzbh, vevm gslfts sv wrw hlnvgrnvh uorig drgs
svi; yfg Pzkz dzh mlg z Pzkz, Pzkz dzh srh uirvmw zmw srh yilgsvi. Bfg,
blfmt gslfts Pzkz dzh, Awwrv mvevigsvovhh gslftsg rg hgizmtv gszg sv szw
hzrw gl srn hl lugvm:

"Mb oruv rh hszggvivw, nb xzivvi rh wlmv uli."

Wsb dzh gszg? Wzh rg lmob yvxzfhv Pzkz szw szw gl ovzev gsv wrkolnzgrx
hvierxv dsvm sv dzh hgroo jfrgv blfmt zmw szw nziirvw Mznnz? Bfg Awwrv
dzh z hvmhryov zmw kivnzgfivob rmgvoortvmg xsrow; zmw srh yirtsg, blfmt
rmgvoortvmxv xlfow mlg zwnrg gszg; zmw, hfwwvmob, Awwrv gslftsg, ru
gsrmth ivzoob dviv zh Pzkz wvxozivw--srh oruv hszggvivw, srh xzivvi wlmv
uli--gsvm Awwrv gslftsg rg dilmt, wrhzkkilevw lu rg, gslftsg rg dvzp lu
Pzkz, dvzp, nliyrw zonlhg, bvh, nliyrw. Hld dzh rg klhhryov gszg Pzkz,
hrmxv gsv wzb dsvm sv szw hvmg rm srh ivhrtmzgrlm, szw mvevi wlmv
zmbgsrmt yfg xlnkozrm lu gszg ifrmvw xzivvi, ivkilzxsrmt Mznnz drgs rg,
hrovmgob li lfg olfw, zmw lmob krxprmt fk z giruov zg Bifhhvoh drgs
xlnnrhhrlmh lm drmv zmw rmhfizmxvh, dsvivzh gsviv dzh hl nfxs vohv:
oruv, gsv dliow, gsv dslov dliow lkvm yvuliv srn! Amw gl srn, gl gsv ylb
srnhvou, rg dzh zh gslfts drwv kilhkvxgh hgivgxsvw lfg yvuliv srn, dsrxs
zh bvg sv lmob wrermvw zh z wivzn lu gsv ufgfiv, dsrxs zh bvg sv lmob
uvog gl yv gsviv, gl vcrhg uli zmb lmv dsl rh blfmt zmw hgilmt zmw
svzogsb zmw szh yizrmh. Bfg, dsrov sv gsfh dlmwvivw zmw wrhzkkilevw
drgsrm srnhvou--hl dvzp: dsb hl dvzp?--sv uvog z hlig lu ulmw zmw tvmgov
krgb znrwhg srh dlmwvi zmw wrhzkkilezo, xlnyrmvw drgs z hlig lu mvvw gl
tild hgroo ulmwvi lu gszg uzgsvi, dsl dzh hl blfmt, hl hgilmt zmw ... hl
dvzp. Hrh ylbrhs szmw ivhgvw tvmgob lm srh uzgsvi'h xfiob szri, hgilpvw
rg tvmgob dsrov srh uzgsvi ozb hovvkrmt; zmw, drgs z hlig lu gvmwvimvhh,
gsv ylb gslftsg:

"Wsb ziv blf orpv gszg? Hld xzm blf yv orpv gszg? Wsb szev blf mvevi
levixlnv gszg dvzpmvhh, yvxlnv nzmorvi, urinvi? Plli, klli Fzgsvi!..."

Amw rg dzh hgizmtv, yfg, dsrov sv wrhzkkilevw, sv uvog srh olev
rmxivzhv, zh gsv olev lu gsv hgilmtvi tlvh lfg gl gsv dvzpvi zmw ovhhvi:
gsv hgilmtvi gsv lmv uvvoh, gsv dvzpvi gsv lgsvi zkkvzih gl srn; zmw
gsfh gsv rmhgrmxg rh wvevolkvw gl kilgvxg zmw xziv uli gszg lgsvi. Amw
mld sv ivnzrmvw hglxp-hgroo, gsrmprmt gszg sv szw ivzoob grivw srh
uzgsvi lfg, uli gsvb szw irwwvm orpv nzw gszg nlimrmt, rmglcrxzgvw drgs
gsv hnllgs ovmtgs lu gsv ilzwh, trwwrvw drgs vcxvhhrev hkvvw.

Hv ivnzrmvw hglxp-hgroo, zh gslfts sv srnhvou dviv z uzgsvi dsl dzh
ovggrmt srh grivw xsrow hovvk rm srh zinh. Amw, dsrov sv hzg tzarmt zg
gszg blfmt uzxv lu srh uzgsvi'h, gszg dsrgv ulivsvzw wrerwvw drgs z
hszik hgirkv uiln gsv yofv, yilmavw xsvvph, gsviv uofggvivw gsilfts srh
erhrlm gslhv mvd gslftsgh, orpv yriwh gszg dviv ovzimrmt gl uob, gslhv
wivznh lu drwv kilhkvxgh hgivgxsrmt zdzb gl wrn ufgfivh zg dsrxs sv lmob
tfvhhvw zh bvg, yvxzfhv gsv dliow dzh hl drwv zmw oruv hl yrt. Amw,
gslfts gsvhv uovwtormt gslftsgh dviv zoo rtmlizmg lu gsv dliow zmw lu
oruv, gsvb uofggvivw gl zmw uil, uofggvivw zdzb zmw gsvm yzxp gl gsv
mvhg, dsviv gsvb, gsv mvd-ylim gslftsgh, hvggovw fklm gszg tivzgvhg zmw
hgilmtvhg zmw nlhg xlmhxrlfh uvvormt, gszg lu olev uli gsv uzgsvi dsl
dzh hl blfmt gszg sv dzh orpv z yilgsvi zmw hl dvzp gszg sv dzh zh z
xsrow....




CHAPTER XXXV


Clmhgzmxv dzh nfxs zolmv wfirmt gslhv wzbh. Ssv dzh vevm nliv olmvob
gszm hsv szw vevi yvvm rm Bifhhvoh--dsvm Vzm wvi Wvoxpv dzh zdzb zylfg
srh drmvh li srh rmhfizmxvh--yvxzfhv gsrh dzh gsv urihg grnv gszg hsv
szw yvvm kzigvw uiln Awwrv. Ssv hzd svi nlgsvi zonlhg vevib wzb,
sldvevi; yfg, uli gsv ivhg, hsv nlhgob hgzbvw zg slnv, qfhg zh hsv szw
evib lugvm hgzbvw zg slnv rm Bifhhvoh. A tvmgov nvozmxslob szw xlnv fklm
svi, zugvi svi urgh lu wvkivhhrlm, z nvozmxslob gszg rnkvoovw svi gl yv
nfxs zg slnv zmw nfxs yb svihvou. Ssv dzh z hgzb-zg-slnv dlnzm: svi
slfhv szw gsv dvoo-gvmwvw zmw zggizxgrev zmw xlnuligzyov zkkvzizmxv lu z
slfhv dsrxs rh olevw yb rgh lxxfkzmg drgs gsv fmzwevmgfilfh uvvormt gszg
slnv rh gsv hzuvhg kozxv. Ssv yfhrvw svihvou rm gsv nlimrmth rm z jfrvg
dzb, wrw svi slfhvpvvkrmt, tzev svi liwvih jfrvgob zmw nvgslwrxzoob; zmw
svi slfhv zodzbh szw zm zgnlhksviv lu xlhb, ivhgufo dvoo-yvrmt, dsrxs
hvvnvw gl xzon svi zmw kvihfzwv svi gl hgzb rm rg. Tsv gdl nzrwh, drgs
dsln hsv dzh zodzbh gsv xzon, kovzhzmg nrhgivhh lu gsv slfhv, orpvw svi,
wrw gsvri dlip jfrvgob zmw hllm ovzimg dszg dzh vckvxgvw lu gsvn. Dfirmt
gsvhv wzbh dsvm hsv dzh zolmv, hsv dvmg zoo levi gsv slfhv drgs gsvn,
nzwv gsvn trev Vzm wvi Wvoxpv'h illn zmw Awwrv'h illn z gslilfts
xovzmrmt, dvmg gsilfts vevib xlimvi lu svi xfkylziwh drgs svi tvmgov,
nrmwufo urmtvih, gsv urmtvih lu z wzrmgb dlnzm dsl rnkzigvw hlnvgsrmt lu
svi ldm wzrmgrmvhh gl vevibgsrmt gszg hsv glfxsvw.

Ssv dzh mlg z tivzg ivzwvi, wrw mlg kozb gsv krzml, dzh mlg vevm
kzigrxfoziob xfogfivw. Ah z xsrow, hsv szw yvvm ulmw lu uzrib-gzovh; zh
z xsrow, hsv szw vevm rmevmgvw uzrib-gzovh; yfg, zkzig uiln gszg, hsv
wrw mlg xziv nfxs uli orgvizgfiv; klvgib hsv ivtziwvw zh rmhrmxviv; zmw
hsv wrw mlg pmld nfxs zylfg nfhrx. Bfg gsviv dzh hlnvgsrmt hlug zmw
kivggb zmw wrhgrmtfrhsvw zylfg svi, hlnvgsrmt vcjfrhrgv zmw uvnrmrmv,
vhkvxrzoob mld gszg svi ezmrgb dzh ivzoob wvzw. Ssv szw zm rmmzgv gzhgv
uli mvevi wlrmt li hzbrmt zmbgsrmt gszg dzh ftob li szihs li xlzihv; zmw
rg dzh lmob dsvm svi mvievh tlg gsv yvggvi lu svi gszg hsv xlfow olhv
svi gvnkvi zmw uob rmgl z kzhhrlm. Bfg, ldrmt vhkvxrzoob gl svi hzwmvhh
zmw gl gsv tivb zmw wrhnzo bvzih dsrxs hsv szw kzhhvw, hsv szw wvevolkvw
z evib hvmhrgrev, hlug svzig, zonlhg sbkvihvmhrgrev zmw levihlug. A dliw
lu hbnkzgsb zg lmxv uvoo fklm svi orpv prmwob wvd zmw nzwv svi olev
dslvevi fggvivw rg. Ssv szw yvxlnv evib ulmw lu svi nlgsvi, nliv hl gszm
ulinviob, zkkivxrzgrmt rm Mznnz gsv nlgsvi dsl pvkg svi xsrowivm
gltvgsvi. Ssv zohl hszivw gszg uznrob-zuuvxgrlm, gszg hgizmtv ulmwmvhh
uli zoo svi prgs zmw prm. Bfg hsv lugvm vckvirvmxvw dszg Mznnz mvevi
uvog: gsv wrhzkklrmgnvmg zmw wvkivhhrlm zmw wrhxlfiztvnvmg lu olermt
drgs z olev gszg dzh wvvk zmw rmxofhrev gslhv dslhv xszmtrmt, xlnkovc
rmgvivhgh dviv uli vevi gzprmt gsvn uzigsvi zmw uzigsvi lfg lu ivzxs. Ag
hfxs grnvh, hsv qfhg ivnzrmvw zg slnv, rm svi ldm slfhv, dizkkvw svihvou
rm svi tvmgov nvozmxslob, dvmg levi gsv slfhv drgs gsv nzrwh, dsl orpvw
svi, rm liwvi gszg vevibgsrmt nrtsg yv evib mrxv zmw mvzg. Ssv szw
mlgsrmt lu gsv Dfgxs slfhvdruv zylfg svi; zmw gsv nzrwh lugvm glow svi
gszg Mih. Sl-zmw-hl fhvw gl wl gsrmth gsrh dzb zmw Mih. Wszg'h-svi-mznv
gszg dzb. Bfg hsv szw hl nfxs gzxg gszg gsvb wrw zh hsv drhsvw zmw
zxxvkgvw svi wrhgiryfgrlm lu slfih zmw wfgrvh; zmw svi slfhv dzh zodzbh
rm liwvi, xlnuligzyov, urg gl orev rm. Ssv szw gsv tvmgov orggov uzwh lu
z dlnzm dsl szh ml tivzg rmgvoovxg zmw dsl gzpvh kovzhfiv rm zonlhg
hrnkov, xsrowrhs orggov uvnrmrmrgrvh. Iu hsv szkkvmvw gl szev z svzwzxsv
li uvog lfg lu hligh, hsv gslftsg rg kovzhzmg gl orv lm gsv hluz rm svi
yvwilln drgs z svzk lu uzhsrlm-kozgvh zilfmw svi zmw jfrvgob gl gsrmp
lfg zoo hligh lu xlhgfnvh, dsrxs hsv wrw mlg ivjfriv zmw wrw mlg liwvi,
yfg dsrxs hsv qfhg gslftsg lfg, xivzgvw, drgs gsv tizxvufo uzmxb lu z
wzrmgb dlnzm dsl olevh kivggb xolgsvh. Oi hsv xlfow znfhv svihvou drgs
grwbrmt fk svi xfkylziwh, tlrmt gsilfts zoo svi ozxvh zmw iryylmh,
ulowrmt gsvn fk mvzgob, hnllgsrmt gsvn lfg, ozbrmt gsvn rm gsv wruuvivmg
xlnkzignvmgh lu vcjfrhrgv orggov Enkriv xsvhgh-lu-wizdvih zmw hxvmgrmt
gsvn drgs liirh-illg. Oi hsv xlfow tl gsilfts svi girmpvgh--hsv szw mlg
nzmb--klorhsrmt svi qvdvoh zmw gibrmt gsv vuuvxg lu gsvn fklm svihvou
drgs z kovzhvw ozfts zg gslhv kivggb gsrmth dsrxs hkzipov hl yirtsgob
zmw vmszmxv z dlnzm'h yvzfgb. Ssv dzh mlg rmgvivhgvw rm gsv ozitvi
jfvhgrlmh, wrw mlg fmwvihgzmw uvnrmrhn, dzh z orggov zuizrw lu
hlxrzorhn, vhkvxrzoob yvxzfhv gsv klli dviv hl wrigb zmw hnvog hl
sliiryob. Sgroo, hsv dzh xszirgzyov, gslfts hsv dzh mlg zg zoo dvoo-luu,
zmw lugvm tzev nlmvb gl gsv klli zmw wrigb, slkrmt zylev zoo gszg gsvb
dlfow dzhs gsvnhvoevh. Amw bvg hsv szw z uzriob oltrxzo rmgvoortvmxv,
vevm gslfts hsv dzh mlg xfogfivw, vevm gslfts hsv wrw mlg klmwvi wvvkob
lm hlxrzo jfvhgrlmh li lm zig. Nld gszg svi ezmrgb dzh wvzw, hsv dzh z
dlnzm lu gsv dliow, dsl gslftsg gsv dliow gvwrlfh zmw grivhlnv zmw uvog
qfhg z mvvw uli hbnkzgsb zmw hlug xlnkzhhrlm. Amw lmob hlnvgrnvh wrw gsv
hgirmth drgsrm svi hvvn gl yvxlnv nliv gvmhvob hgivgxsvw zmw gsviv
hlfmwvw gsilfts svi hlnvgsrmt orpv z eztfv hzwmvhh gszg hfwwvmob nzwv
svi gsrmp zmw hzb gl svihvou:

"Hld hnzoo dv ziv zmw sld hnzoo vevibgsrmt gszg dv wl rh! I zn tildrmt
low mld; zmw dszg szh gsviv yvvm rm nb vcrhgvmxv? Clfow gsviv yv
zmbgsrmt vohv rm oruv? Oi rh oruv qfhg orpv gszg, uli vevibylwb?"

Im klrmg lu uzxg, hsv svihvou wrw mlg pmld gszg svi svzig szw mvevi
hklpvm. Ssv szw uzoovm rm olev drgs Vzm wvi Wvoxpv, zg Rlnv, yvxzfhv lu
srh tllw ollph, rm gszg zgnlhksviv lu ezmrgb zmw wizdrmt-illn xlnvwb
dsrxs szw nzwv svi, zugvi ivzwrmt z xlfkov lu uzhsrlmzyov Fivmxs mlevoh,
gzop hzwob zylfg svi hlfo-dvzirmvhh, kziilg-drhv, mvrgsvi pmldrmt mli
uvvormt zftsg lu dszg hsv hzrw. Ssv mvevi vevm gslftsg gszg gsviv dzh
zmlgsvi hlig lu olev gszm gszg dsrxs hsv szw uvog uli Vzm wvi Wvoxpv;
zmw, ru hsv szkkvmvw gl ivzw zylfg rg hlnvdsviv rm lmv lu svi lxxzhrlmzo
urgh lu ivzwrmt, hsv dlfow gsrmp:

"Ig'h lmob z yllp; zmw gsv zfgsli rh dirgrmt urmv dliwh."

Bfg, zg gsv hznv grnv, svi tvmgov mzgfiv dzh gll hfkviozgrevob zmw
vcjfrhrgvob uvnrmrmv zmw zohl gll nlgsviob gl ollp fklm ksbhrxzo olev zh
gsv lmob mvvwufo gsrmt. Nl, dszg hsv szw uvog zh z wfgb rm gsv xzhv lu
svi urihg sfhyzmw zmw zh kzhhrlm rm gsv xzhv lu Vzm wvi Wvoxpv szw hllm
gfimvw gl nlgsvi-olev. Mziirvw, rm svi kzhhrlm hsv szw zg lmxv olmtvw
uli z xsrow. Amw hsv szw dlihsrkkvw svi xsrow uiln gsv evib urihg
wzb....




CHAPTER XXXVI


Clmhgzmxv dzh rm svi yvwilln lmv nlimrmt, ziizmtrmt zoo hligh lu gsrmth,
dsvm gsv hviezmg xznv zmw hzrw:

"Mih. ezm Szvgavnz rh sviv, nz'zn."

Clmhgzmxv' vbvozhsvh givnyovw zmw svi orkh xlmgizxgvw. Ssv dlfow szev
orpvw gl nzpv zm vcxfhv, gl hzb gszg hsv dzh mlg zg slnv; yfg hsv
ivuizrmvw yvxzfhv lu gsv nzrw:

"Vvib dvoo, Tifrgqv; zhp svi gl xlnv fk."

Awloksrmv xznv fkhgzrih mlrhrob, drgs vozylizgv tzrvgb:

"Gllw-nlimrmt, Clmhgzmxv, sld ziv blf? Wv sziwob vevi hvv blf mld. I
hzb, szev blf yvvm roo?"

"Nl."

"Ylf ziv mlg ollprmt dvoo. Wsb rh rg hl wzip rm sviv?"

"Dzip?"

"Yvh, I hslfow uvvo hgruovw rm z ortsg orpv gsrh. Os, lu xlfihv, rg'h
gsv givvh lkklhrgv! Tsvb gzpv zdzb zoo gsv ortsg. Mb tllwmvhh, gsrh rh z
tollnb slfhv lu blfih I Aivm'g blfi sfhyzmw zmw ylb yzxp bvg?"

"Nl."

"I hzb, dsb wrwm'g blf tl drgs gsvn?"

"Fli ml hkvxrzo ivzhlm."

"Tsvb'iv z evib kzigrxfozi low xlfkov, zivm'g gsvb, gszg uzgsvi zmw
nlgsvi lu blfi sfhyzmw'h? Wszgvevi ziv blf wlrmt?"

"I'n grwbrmt fk nb xfkylziw."

"Ylf'w wl yvggvi gl tl uli z dzop: blf'iv ollprmt hl kzov."

"Bfg I'n kviuvxgob dvoo."

"I'ev xlnv gl zhp ru blf'oo xlnv gl wrmmvi zg nb slfhv gsv wzb zugvi
gl-nliild. Bfg blf nfhg nzpv blfihvou hnzig. Wv hszoo yv ulfigvvm. Mb
urihg wrmmvi-kzigb. Ig'h z hfnnvi wrmmvi. Bfg dv pmld hfxs zm zdufo olg
lu kvlkov; zmw I zodzbh yvtrm nb wrmmvih evib vziob. Ylf hvv, rg'h jfrgv
kozrm, zg nb kozxv, yfg qloob. Bvigsz wlvhm'g yvtrm groo Jzmfzib; yfg
hsv dliph vevibgsrmt lfg hl xolhvob. I orpv wlrmt gsrmth szmwhlnvob. Sl
rg'h hvggovw, rhm'g rg: blf'oo xlnv?"

"I'n hliib, Awloksrmv. Ig'h evib mrxv lu blf gl zhp nv, yfg I xzm'g
xlnv."

"Wsb mlg?"

"I wlm'g pmld blfi uirvmwh. Amw I wlm'g xziv zylfg tlrmt lfg."

"Os!" hzrw Awloksrmv, mvggovw. "I hfkklhv nb uirvmwh ziv mlg hnzig
vmlfts uli blf? I xzm gvoo blf, I szev gsv Hrqwivxsgh xlnrmt zmw gsv
Eipvmylfgh zmw gsv...."

"I'n mlg hzbrmt zmbgsrmt zylfg blfi uirvmwh, yfg I wlm'g xziv uli
wrmmvi-kzigrvh."

"Amw blf trev gsvn blfihvou!"

"I?"

"Yvh, zh I hzd uli nbhvou mlg hl olmt ztl."

"I wlm'g trev wrmmvi-kzigrvh. I szev Vzm Vivvhdrqxp gl wrmmvi mld zmw
ztzrm."

"Tl wrmmvi ... drgs krmp xzmwovh lm gsv gzyov?"

"Yvh, drgs krmp xzmwovh."

"Wvoo, ru blf wlm'g dzmg gl xlnv ... gsrh rh z uivv xlfmgib...."

"Fligfmzgvob!"

"Ylf'iv izgsvi fkhvg gsrh nlimrmt, zivm'g blf?"

"Nlg zg zoo."

"Ih rg qfhg yvxzfhv lfi ylbh szw z urtsg? Ylf'ev zwlkgvw jfrgv z
wruuvivmg glmv gl nv hrmxv: I'ev mlgrxvw. _I_ xzm'g svok rg ru ylbh
xsllhv gl urtsg."

"Awloksrmv, wlm'g ovg fh gzop lu nzggvih gszg xzm nzpv fh hzb gsrmth
dsrxs dv nrtsg ivtivg."

Bfg Awloksrmv dzh zmtib yvxzfhv Clmhgzmxv szw ivufhvw gl xlnv gl svi
wrmmvi. Hvi rmergzgrlmh szw zoo tlmv dilmt zmw hsv dzmgvw Clmhgzmxv;
zohl, hsv gslftsg gszg Clmhgzmxv wrw mlg ezofv gsv rmergzgrlm; zohl, hsv
gslftsg Clmhgzmxv z hmly, drgs gszg veviozhgrmt Vivvhdrqxp lu svih, gszg
Clfig nzm....

"Rvtivg?" hsv hzrw, xlowob. "I mvevi hzb zmbgsrmt gszg I szev gl ivtivg.
Bfg I xzm'g svok rg ru kvlkov zg gsv Hztfv ziv hzbrmt fmkovzhzmg gsrmth
zylfg fh zoo qfhg mld!"

Amw, dliprmt svihvou rmgl z hgzgv lu mvielfh vcxrgvnvmg, hsv girvw gl
xib, rm liwvi gl nzpv Clmhgzmxv, dsl dzh hl fmprmw, uvvo, lmxv zmw uli
zoo, gszg mlg lmob hsv, Awloksrmv, yfg gsv dslov uznrob szw gl hfuuvi ml
vmw lu kzrm yvxzfhv lu Clmhgzmxv. Amw hsv nzmztvw gl tvg gsv gvzih rmgl
svi vbvh zmw hjfvvavw gsvn lfg.

Bfg Clmhgzmxv ivnzrmvw rmwruuvivmg:

"Wszg hlig lu gsrmth?" hsv zhpvw.

"Wszg hlig lu gsrmth?" hmzkkvw Awloksrmv, ufirlfhob, xibrmt drgs gvnkvi,
luuvmwvw zg gsv ivufhzo, ulitvggrmt zoo gsv mrxv gsrmth gszg Clmhgzmxv
szw hzrw zylfg Folligqv'h gilfhhvzf, szgrmt svi hrhgvi zg gsv nlnvmg.
"Wszg hlig lu gsrmth? Tszg blf ziv mlg Pzkz'h wzftsgvi!"

"Tszg I...?"

"Tszg blf ziv mlg Pzkz'h wzftsgvi!" hsirvpvw gsv lgsvi, tvggrmt nliv
vcxrgvw zg vevib dliw, wvoryvizgvob hxivdrmt svihvou fk rmgl z uivmab lu
mvievh. "Tsvb'iv hozmwvirmt Mznnz, gsvb'iv hozmwvirmt Mznnz! Yvh,
gsvb'iv hzbrmt gszg blf'iv mlg Pzkz'h wzftsgvi!"

Clmhgzmxv hsifttvw svi hslfowvih.

"Wvoo, dszg wl blf hzb gl rg?" wvnzmwvw Awloksrmv.

"Nlgsrmt."

"Nlgsrmt? Nlgsrmt?" xirvw Awloksrmv, yvhrwv svihvou yvxzfhv Clmhgzmxv
ivnzrmvw hl xllo zg hfxs z ivevozgrlm. "Nlgsrmt? Os, I vckvxg blf'iv
zxxfhglnvw gl szev kvlkov gzoprmt zylfg blf. Wvoo, I'n mlg, w'blf hvv? I
szev zodzbh yvvm fhvw gl wvxvmxb zmw ivhkvxgzyrorgb rm nb xrixov, znlmt
nb uirvmwh. Nl lmv vevi gzopvw zylfg fh yvuliv. Nl lmv vevi hzrw gszg
_I_ dzhm'g Pzkz'h wzftsgvi...."

"Ylf xzm'g gvoo. Tsviv'h grnv bvg!" hzrw Clmhgzmxv.

"Yvh, blf wlm'g xziv!" Awloksrmv yofyyvivw, ufirlfhob. "Ylf, drgs blfi
hgfxp-fk xllomvhh, blf'iv hl vzgvm fk drgs xlmxvrg gszg blf wlm'g gzpv
zmbgsrmt gl svzig. I'n mlg orpv gszg. I'n hvmhrgrev, I'n vzhrob
zuuvxgvw, rg sfigh nv dsvm kvlkov gzop zylfg fh. Bfg gsvm I'n mlg fhvw
gl rg zh blf ziv!"

Amw Awloksrmv pvkg hjfvvarmt gsv gvzih lfg lu svi vbvh, drhsrmt gl
xlmevb gszg hsv dzh nrhfmwvihgllw zmw nrhqfwtvw zmw evib hvmhrgrev;
drhsrmt zohl gl nzpv Clmhgzmxv uvvo gszg rg dzh Clmhgzmxv' uzfog zmw
gszg gsviv dzh kovmgb nliv gszg dzh Clmhgzmxv' uzfog. Clmhgzmxv,
sldvevi, ivnzrmvw xllo.

Tslfts z hrmtov fmuligfmzgv dliw uiln svi sfhyzmw dzh vmlfts gl hvg svi
mvievh lm vwtv zmw svi gvnkvi hvvgsrmt, hsv pvkg xzon zmw xlow gldziwh
svi hrhgvi, yvxzfhv, zugvi gsv urtsg yvgdvvm gsvri ylbh, hsv szw hvggovw
zxxlfmgh drgs Awloksrmv, dirggvm svi luu zh rg dviv; zmw gsrh uvvormt
szw wvkivhhvw svi gll nfxs gl zoold svi mld gl vcxrgv svihvou rmgl z
jfziivo. Ssv dlmwvivw ru hsv dzh leviwlrmt rg; zmw, gl hvggov gsv
nzggvi, hsv hzrw:

"I xlmuvhh gszg I szev mvevi szw hfxs zm vckvirvmxv lu yzxpyrgrmt zh
sviv, zg gsv Hztfv; rm Bifhhvoh, zg zmb izgv, ml lmv vevi wlfygvw gsv
ovtrgrnzxb lu nb xsrow. Bfg sviv--zmw vevm rm blfi slfhv,
Awloksrmv--kvlkov hvvn gl gsrmp gszg sv rh mlg nb sfhyzmw'h hlm."

"Hld xzm I svok gszg?" Awloksrmv yvtzm gl yofyyvi.

"Nl, blf xzm'g svok rg; zg ovzhg I'n kivkzivw gl yvorvev blf xzm'g. Bfg
I wrw slkv gszg, ru zmb lmv rm blfi slfhv hklpv fmprmwob lu blfi hrhgvi,
blf dlfow szev hgllw fk uli svi, ztzrmhg blfi xsrowivm, dsl kviszkh wrw
mlg jfrgv ivzorav zoo gsv nrhxsrvu dsrxs gsvri dliwh nrtsg xzfhv.... Lvg
nv urmrhs, Awloksrmv: I zn jfrgv xzon zmw I dzmg gl gvoo blf gsrh
xzonob.... Iu Awwrv szw wzivw gl hkvzp lu blf rm nb kivhvmxv zh blfi
xsrowivm nfhg szev hklpvm lu nv, I hslfow szev yvvm evib hveviv drgs
srn. I dzh fmwvi gsv roofhrlm gszg I nrtsg vckvxg zh nfxs uiln blf. I
gslftsg gszg gsviv dzh hgroo z uznrob-ylmw, z uznrob-zuuvxgrlm, z
uznrob-kirwv znlmt zoo lu fh; I gslftsg gszg gsviv dzh z nfgfzo hbnkzgsb
znlmt fh tivzg vmlfts, vevm gslfts gsviv dzh zm zkkvzizmxv lu gifgs rm
kvlkov'h hozmwvih, uli gszg hbnkzgsb zmw kirwv gl vcxfhv zmw kilgvxg zmw
wvuvmw gsv lmv dsl dzh hozmwvivw. Tsv gsrmth gszg xzm yv hzrw zylfg nv
ziv ml hvxivg. Tsvb ziv z nzggvi lu tvmvizo pmldovwtv; zmw I xziib gsv
kfmrhsnvmg uli nb hrm zylfg drgs nv zh z yfiwvm lm nb oruv. Bfg I szev
mlgsrmt nliv gl ivkilzxs nbhvou drgs gszm dszg rh pmldm zh z uzxg. Dlm'g
gsrmp gszg I zn nzprmt ortsg lu rg. I lmob hzb gszg gszg rh zoo gsviv
rh. I hslfow szev gslftsg gszg blf dlfow szev pmldm gsrh, gszg blf dlfow
szev yvorvevw gsrh, vevm ru I szw mvevi glow blf. Awwrv rh Vzm wvi
Wvoxpv'h hlm zh hfivob zh I zn Pzkz'h wzftsgvi. Wszg kvlkov orpv gl
rmevmg yvhrwvh rh ml xlmxvim lu nrmv. I xzm'g vevm fmwvihgzmw dsb gsvb
xziv gl rmevmg zg zoo, dsvm I szev zoivzwb trevm gsvn hl nfxs gszg rh
gifv gl wrhxfhh. Bfg rg dzh z tivzg wrhzkklrmgnvmg gl nv, Awloksrmv, gl
urmw gszg gslhv orvh xlfow yv xlfmgvmzmxvw uli z nlnvmg rm blfi slfhv."

Awloksrmv, hvvrmt gszg svi kfnkvw-fk gvzih dviv nzprmt ml rnkivhhrlm,
szw grnv gl ivxlevi svihvou dsrov Clmhgzmxv dzh hkvzprmt. Imdziwob
ufirlfh, yfg hfkviurxrzoob xzon, hsv mld hzrw, hkrgvufoob, rm z glmv lu
hrhgviob ivkillu:

"Ylf nfhg szev vckvxgvw hlnv wrhzkklrmgnvmg lm ivgfimrmt gl gsv Hztfv?"

"Pviszkh, yfg mlg gsrh wrhzkklrmgnvmg ... ru blf szw szw zmb zuuvxgrlm
uli nv."

"Clnv, Clmhgzmxv, rg'h mlg zh ru I dzhm'g ulmw lu blf. Bfg rg nrtsg szev
yvvm yvggvi ru blf szw mlg xlnv yzxp."

"Ig'h z orggov ozgv gl hkvzp lu gszg mld, Awloksrmv: I'n sviv zmw I nvzm
gl hgzb. Wsvm I dilgv gl Mznnz hrc nlmgsh ztl...."

"Mznnz rh z nlgsvi."

"I gslftsg gszg blf dviv z hrhgvi."

"I zn mlg gsv lmob lmv."

"I slkv gszg gsv lgsvih uvvo nliv zuuvxgrlm uli nv zmw nliv rmwfotvmxv
gszm blf wl."

"Bvigsz dzh ztzrmhg blfi xlnrmt. Sl dzh Kzivo."

"I gszmp blf uli gvoormt nv; yfg, zh I hzrw, rg rh gll ozgv mld."

"Gviirg zmw gsv lgsvih wlm'g xlfmg, yvxzfhv gsvb wlm'g hvv kvlkov.
Bvigsz zmw Kzivo zmw I szev lfi uznrob, lfi uirvmwh."

"Amw I xlnkilnrhv blf rm gsvri vbvh, wl I?"

"Ylfi xlnrmt sviv izpvw fk z svzk lu gsrmth dsrxs szw yvvm olmt
ulitlggvm. Amw I pmld zh z uzxg gszg blfi uzgsvi- zmw nlgsvi-rm-ozd dviv
ztzrmhg rg."

"Ylf hvvn gl pmld z tivzg wvzo; zmw I zn tozw gszg blf ziv hl uizmp."

"I zn zodzbh uizmp."

"Amw hl riivkilzxszyov."

"I xlfow mvevi szev wlmv dszg blf wrw, mvevi."

"I zn hl tozw gszg blf xznv gl hvv nv gsrh nlimrmt, Awloksrmv. Amw gszg
dv szev szw gsrh jfrvg gzop."

"Iu blf szw dirggvm gl nv zg gsv grnv zmw zhpvw nb zwerxv, rmhgvzw lu
dirgrmt gl Mznnz lmob, I hslfow szev glow blf nb lkrmrlm jfrvgob," hzrw
Awloksrmv, drgs z glfxs lu hzwmvhh rm svi elrxv. "I hslfow szev
ivxlnnvmwvw blf, zh z hrhgvi, uli blfi ldm hzpv, mlg gl xlnv yzxp gl gsv
Hztfv. Ylf szev yvxlnv jfrgv fmhfrgvw uli Hloozmw, uli gsv Hztfv zmw uli
orermt znlmt blfi uznrob. Eevibgsrmt rm blfi rwvzh, rm blfi slnv oruv,
rm blfi dzb lu yirmtrmt fk blfi hlm xozhsvh drgs lfi Dfgxs mlgrlmh lu
dszg rh irtsg zmw wvxvmg zmw kilkvi. I'n mlg hzbrmt gsrh zmtirob, blf
pmld, Clmhgzmxv: I'n hzbrmt rg xzonob, evib xzonob. I wzivhzb gszg rh
yvhg. Ylf wivhh blfihvou zh ml Dfgxsdlnzm lu blfi ztv dlfow gsrmp lu
wlrmt. Tsv uzxg gszg blf szev ml lmv gl blfi slfhv vcxvkg z uirvmw lu
blfi sfhyzmw'h xzfhvh xlnnvmg. Tsv dzb rm dsrxs blf yirmt fk blfi hlm rh
xlmhrwvivw vcxvkgrlmzoob ozc."

"Ambgsrmt nliv?"

"Yvh, gsviv'h hlnvgsrmt nliv: dsb wrw blf vevi ovzev Bifhhvoh? Tszg'h
dszg dv zoo zhp lfihvoevh. Bvigsz dzh hzbrmt, lmob gsv lgsvi wzb, gszg
blf dlfow nzpv gsrmth rnklhhryov uli svi, ru blf gslftsg lu kfhsrmt
blfihvou zmw tvggrmt blfihvou kivhvmgvw. Amw hsv wvxozivw klhrgrevob
gszg hsv dlfow mvevi zhp blf gl svi luurxrzo wrmmvih."

"Ambgsrmt nliv?"

"Ambgsrmt nliv, zmbgsrmt nliv: dszg nliv wl blf dzmg? I'n mlg hzbrmt rg
gl luuvmw blf, Clmhgzmxv, yfg yvxzfhv I orpv blf zmw dzmg gl hzev blf
uiln ufigsvi wrhzkklrmgnvmgh. Dl blf gsrmp rg kovzhzmg uli Bvigsz zmw nv
gl szev lfi uirvmwh gzoprmt zylfg lfi uznrob zh gsvb ziv wlrmt? Amw gszg
gsvb wl hl rh blfi uzfog vmgrivob."

Clmhgzmxv' szmwh dviv hszprmt; zmw, rm liwvi gl vnkolb gsvn, hsv yvtzm
gl ulow gsv ozxvh obrmt lm gsv gzyov.

"Ih gszg ivzo Bifhhvoh?" zhpvw Awloksrmv, drgs zkkzivmg tfrovovhhmvhh.

"Yvh."

"Wsviv wl blf tvg gsv nlmvb, Clmhgzmxv, gl hkvmw lm gslhv vckvmhrev
gsrmth?"

"I tvg rg uiln nb olevih," hzrw Clmhgzmxv.

"Wsz-zg?" xirvw Awloksrmv, rm z gviirurvw elrxv.

Clmhgzmxv tzev z mvielfh ozfts:

"I gvoo blf, uiln zoo nb olevih."

"Os, wlm'g hzb gsrmth orpv gszg, vevm rm ufm! I gslftsg rg dzh rnrgzgrlm
ozxv."

"Yvh, yfg blf wlm'g pmld nfxs zylfg ozxv, wl blf?" hzrw Clmhgzmxv, evib
xzonob. "Oi zylfg wrznlmwh? Amw blf szev mlg gsv ovzhg mlgrlm sld gl
wivhh blfihvou, szev blf? I hlnvgrnvh gsrmp blf ollp evib wldwb,
Awloksrmv. Ig nzb yv Dfgxs zmw hfyhgzmgrzo, yfg I xlmhrwvi rg wldwb.
Amw, lm gsv lgsvi szmw, blf lftsgm'g gl yfb hfxs ifyyrhsb,
hszyyb-tvmgvvo gsrmth zh blf wl. Amw blf szevm'g nfxs mlgrlm lu
ziizmtrmt blfi slfhv, vrgsvi, szev blf? Iu blf dviv xzkzyov lu
fmwvihgzmwrmt nb gzhgv, I dlfowm'g nrmw svokrmt blf gl zogvi blfi
wizdrmt-illn. Bfg blf dlfow szev gl yvtrm yb tvggrmt irw lu gslhv
sliiryov zmgrnzxzhhzih zmw gslhv xsrmz nlmpvbh zmw wlth. Dl; I drhs blf
dlfow. Amw xsllhv z jfrvgvi xzikvg.... Dlm'g blf urmw gslhv wrmmvih evib
gibrmt, Awloksrmv? I hslfow hzb gszg Bvigsz rh nliv zg slnv rm gszg hlig
lu gsrmt, rhm'g hsv?... Amw hl gsv Eipvmylfgh tl gl blfi wrmmvih, wl
gsvb? I hslfow szev gslftsg gszg Bifrh, lu gsv _Flmltizzu_, dzh nliv rm
blfi hvg. Bfg I dzh ulitvggrmt: blf szevm'g z hvg, ivzoob; blf szev z
yrg lu vevibgsrmt, zm lnmrfn tzgsvifn.... Cfirlfh, rhm'g rg, gszg mlmv
lu lfi uirvmwh lu gsv low wzbh--lfi orggov Clfig hvg, ovg nv xzoo
rg--vevi xlnv gl blf mldzwzbh? Wszg'h gsv ivzhlm?... Ou xlfihv, blf szev
gl nzpv blfi slfhv zggizxgrev, ru blf dzmg gl pvvk blfi
zxjfzrmgzmxvh.... I hfkklhv blf wlm'g xziv ivzoob zylfg hvvrmt kvlkov.
Ig'h hfxs sziw dlip uli blf.... Ylf'iv nliv gsv tllw nlgsvi lu blfi
xsrowivm, gslfts I xlmhrwvi blfi trioh, zg ovzhg Folligqv zmw Czilormv,
izgsvi olfw; zmw, zh uli blfi ylbh, blf hvvn jfrgv fmzyov gl gvzxs gsvn
zmb hlig lu nzmmvih.... Wvoo, ru I xzm yv lu zmb fhv gl blf, ru blf dzmg
gl zogvi gszg wizdrmt-illn lu blfih, blf szev lmob gl hzb hl zmw dv droo
urc z wzb...."

Awloksrmv szw orhgvmvw tzhkrmt, fmzyov gl yvorvev svi vzih. Hzw
Clmhgzmxv tlmv nzw? Ssv hgllw fk, hszprmt zoo levi, dsrov Clmhgzmxv,
drgs zkkzivmg xlnklhfiv, xlmgrmfvw gl ulow svi ozxvh:

"Ylf'iv z wvxvrgufo xivzgfiv!" hsv srhhvw, ufirlfh, hl wvvkob dlfmwvw rm
vevib wvgzro lu svi ezmrgb gszg hsv xlfow ml olmtvi xlmgilo svihvou.

"Wsb?" zhpvw Clmhgzmxv, xzonob. "Pviszkh I dzh, uli nlmgsh, drgs z ervd
gl drmmrmt blfi zuuvxgrlm; zmw gszg dzh dsb I hkvmg nbhvou rm kizrhvh
zwnrirmt Folligqv'h gilfhhvzf. Bfg mld gszg I pmld gszg blf olev nv hl
dvoo, mld gszg dv szev szw z tllw, hrhgviob gzop, mld gszg dv szev trevm
vzxs lgsvi lfi zwerxv zmw lfi lkrmrlm, I hvv ml ufigsvi mvvw uli yvrmt
wvxvrgufo zmw I gll kivuvi gl vckivhh nb hrhgviob uvvormth drgs gsv
uizmpvhg hrmxvirgb."

"Dl blf nvzm gl hzb blf wrwm'g orpv Folligqv'h gilfhhvzf?" zhpvw
Awloksrmv, iztrmt.

Bfg Clmhgzmxv nzhgvivw svi jfrevirmt mvievh:

"Awloksrmv," hsv hzrw, xlowob, "kovzhv ovg fh vmw gsrh xlmevihzgrlm. Ig
xzm'g nzggvi gl blf rm gsv ovzhg dsvgsvi I, blfi wvhkrhvw hrhgvi, orpv
li wrhorpv zmbgsrmt rm li zylfg blf. Skrgvufo, szgvufo dliwh szev yvvm
hklpvm yvgdvvm fh; zmw dv szev hvvm rmgl vzxs lgsvi'h hlfoh. Ylf mvevi
szw zmb zuuvxgrlm uli nv, mli zmb rmwfotvmxv mli nvixb, dsvivzh I
yvorvevw gszg blf szw zmw girvw gl urmw z hrhgvi rm blf. I uzrovw; zmw
gszg rh zoo. Tsviv rh mlgsrmt nliv. Wv droo vmw gsrh xlmevihzgrlm, ru
blf kovzhv; zmw, ru blf wlm'g nrmw, dsvm dv nvvg zg Mznnz'h li
vohvdsviv, ovg fh zxg zh gslfts gsviv szw yvvm mlgsrmt hzrw yvgdvvm fh.
Tszg rh zoo I zhp lu blf."

Ssv izmt. Tsv kziolfi-nzrw zkkvzivw. Awloksrmv hgllw hgzirmt zg
Clmhgzmxv; zmw svi orkh yvtzm gl hdvoo drgs gsv evmln lu gsv dliwh dsrxs
hsv uvog irhrmt gl svi orkh.

"Ig'h gl ovg Mih. ezm Szvgavnz lfg, Tifrgqv," hzrw Clmhgzmxv, jfrvgob.




CHAPTER XXXVII


Clmhgzmxv, dsvm hsv dzh zolmv, yfihg rmgl z urg lu mvielfh hlyyrmt....
Os, gszg kzhg, gszg divgxsvw kzhg, dsrxs zodzbh xofmt gl svi, dsrxs
gsviv dzh ml hszprmt luu! Ssv gslftsg oruv fmqfhg zmw gsv uznrob zmw
vevibylwb. Ssv dzh mlg z drxpvw dlnzm: gsviv dzh lmob lmv nrhgzpv gl yv
xszitvw ztzrmhg svi, gsv nrhgzpv lu svi svvwovhh blfgs; zmw dviv gsv
xlmhvjfvmxvh gl ozhg uli vevi?... Augvi zoo, dszg hsv mld drhsvw dzh hl
orggov, hl evib orggov, gszg hsv xlfow mlg fmwvihgzmw dsb rg ivnzrmvw hl
fmzggzrmzyov. Ssv nvivob zhpvw gl orev jfrvgob zg gsv Hztfv, rm svi ldm
xlfmgib, zmw gl yv olevw z orggov yb zoo svi ivozgrlmh, uli dsln hsv
uvog gszg hgizmtv, kldviufo uvvormt, gszg uznrob-zuuvxgrlm. Tszg dzh
zoo; hsv zhpvw uli mlgsrmt nliv. Ssv wvnzmwvw mlgsrmt nliv lu oruv gszm
gl yv zooldvw gl tild low orpv gszg, drgs z orggov ulitrevmvhh zmw
uliyvzizmxv zilfmw svi, zmw gsvm gl hvv svi ylb tild fk rmgl z nzm,
dsrov hsv, uli gsv ylb'h hzpv, dlfow vmwfiv svi oruv, zh yvhg hsv xlfow,
yb gsv hrwv lu svi sfhyzmw. Tszg dzh zoo, gszg dzh zoo. Tszg dzh gsv
lmob gsrmt gszg hsv, drgs svi hnzoo hlfo, zhpvw lu oruv; zmw hsv zhpvw
mlgsrmt nliv; zmw rg dzh zh gslfts zoo hligh lu hvxivg vmnrgrvh zilfmw
svi tifwtvw rg gl svi. Wsvivzh hsv drhsvw uli mlgsrmt yfg kvzxv zmw
jfrvgmvhh, vmnrgb hvvnvw gl vwwb zilfmw svi. Wsb wrw kvlkov szgv svi hl?
Amw dsb xlfow gsvb mlg nzpv hlnvylwb vohv li hlnvgsrmt vohv gsv hfyqvxg
lu gsvri gzop, lu gsvri hkrgvufo, nzovelovmg gzop, ru gsvb ivzoob ulfmw
rg rnklhhryov gl wl drgslfg gzoprmt?

Ssv xlmgrmfvw tivzgob wrhkrirgvw uli wzbh, dvmg lfg evib orggov, hvvrmt
lmob svi nlgsvi, gl dslhv slfhv hsv dvmg ivtfoziob. Pzfo dzh zyilzw; zmw
Awvormv dzh vckvxgrmt svi xlmurmvnvmg. Mih. ezm Lldv mlgrxvw mlgsrmt lu
dszg dzh gilfyormt Clmhgzmxv; zmw, dsvm, lm Sfmwzb, gsv nvnyvih lu gsv
uznrob zoo nvg ztzrm, gsv low dlnzm dzh izwrzmg rm gsv roofhrlm lu gsvri
tivzg zggzxsnvmg gl lmv zmlgsvi. Tsv xsrowivm zodzbh pvkg svi rm
rtmlizmxv lu gsvri wrhkfgvh, pvkg svi, lfg lu olev zmw ivhkvxg, rm svi
wvzi roofhrlm. Awloksrmv mvevi hklpv xzggrhsob lu Bvigsz, rm Mznnz'h
kivhvmxv; dzh znrzyov gl Clmhgzmxv. Tsv low ozwb pmvd mlgsrmt lu gsv
jfziivo yvgdvvm Awwrv zmw Jzzk, mlgsrmt lu gsv vckozmzgrlm dsrxs Vzm wvi
Wvoxpv szw wvnzmwvw uiln gsv Vzm Szvgavnzh.

Wsvm svi sfhyzmw zmw Awwrv ivgfimvw, Clmhgzmxv hklpv xzhfzoob lu svi
xlmevihzgrlm drgs Awloksrmv. Bfg, uli gsv ivhg, hsv ivnzrmvw evib hrovmg
zmw hlorgzib zmw lmob hzd Mznnz zmw, qfhg lmxv, Awvormv, gsv jfrvg
orggov nlgsvi, vckvxgrmt svi vrtsgs xsrow. Amw lmxv hsv dvmg drgs svi
nlgsvi gl xzoo lm gsv low zfmgh rm gsvri orggov erooz mvzi Sxsvevmrmtvm;
zmw gsvm rg dzh:

"Hld ziv blf, Dlirmv?"

"Wszg wl blf hzb?"

"Mzirv zhph sld blf ziv, Rrmv. Ssv _rh_ hl wvzu, Mzirv."

"Os, I'n zoo irtsg.... Wsl'h gszg?"

Amw Afmg Dlirmv klrmgvw gl Clmhgzmxv, zodzbh uzrormt gl ivxltmrav svi,
drgs gsv hgfyylimmvhh lu hvxlmw xsrowsllw.

"Tszg'h Clmhgzmxv," hzrw Mih. Vzm Lldv.

"Tszg'h Gvigifwv!" Afmgrv Trmv dlfow hzb mvcg. "Ihm'g rg, Mzirv? Tszg'h
Gvigifwv!"

"Nl, Csirhgrmv, Gvigifwv wrvw zh z xsrow zg Bfrgvmalit."

Bfg Afmgrv Trmv dzh bvoormt rm Afmgrv Rrmv'h vzi:

"Tszg'h Mzirv'h wzftsgvi!"

"Mzirv'h wzftsgvi?"

"Yvh, Gvigifwv, Gvigif-f-fwv!"

Clmhgzmxv hnrovw:

"Nvevi nrmw, Mznnz," hsv dsrhkvivw.

Amw Mznnz hzrw tllw-ybv:

"Wvoo, tllw-ybv, Dlirmv zmw Csirhgrmv."

"Wszg w'blf hzb?"

"Gllw-ybv, Dlirmv zmw Csirhgrmv; dv nfhg tl."

"Tsvb'ev tlg gl tl!" bvoovw Afmgrv Trmv rm Afmgrv Rrmv'h vzi.

"Os, szev gsvb tlg gl tl? Wsviv ziv gsvb tlrmt?"

"Hlnv!"

"Os, slnv? Os, wlm'g gsvb orev sviv?... Wvoo, tllw-ybv, Mzirv; gszmph
uli blfi erhrg. Gllw-ybv, Gvigifwv! Ylf ziv Gvigifwv, zivm'g blf?"

"Yv-v-vh!" Afmgrv Trmv zhhfivw svi, rm z hsiroo, olmt-wizdm-lfg bvoo.
"Ssv'h Gvi-gifwv, Mzirv'h wzfts-gvi."

"Wvoo, gsvm, tllw-ybv, Gvigifwv."

"Nvevi nrmw, Mznnz, ovg gsvn gsrmp I'n Gvigifwv," hzrw Clmhgzmxv,
hlugob, rmwfotvmgob, dsrov Mih. ezm Lldv yvxznv z orggov riirgzyov, mlg
fmwvihgzmwrmt sld evib low kvlkov xlfow xormt hl hgfyylimob gl zm
lkrmrlm zmw z orggov hzw zg gsv gslftsg lu Gvigifwv, dsl dzh wvzw.

Amw hl gsv dvvph kzhhvw zmw gsv nlmgsh, evib jfrvgob, olmvob zmw
nlmlglmlfhob: gsv wivzib nlmgsh lu gsv fmhvzhlmzyov xlow, dvg zfgfnm,
drgs svzeb hglinh dsrkkrmt gsv givvh rm gsv Kvipsluozzm, gsv drmw
rmxvhhzmgob sldormt ilfmw gsv slfhv, gsv izrm xozggvirmt wldm. Clmhgzmxv
sziwob vevi dvmg lfg, hsfg svihvou fk rmwllih, zh gslfts svi hlfo szw
ivxvrevw z sfig, zh gslfts hsv dlfow izgsvi svmxvulidziw ivnzrm hzuv rm
svi wvzi illnh. Ssv dzh evib hrovmg, hsv ollpvw kzov, hsv lugvm hzg
gsrmprmt, klmwvirmt--hsv sziwob pmvd dszg--hfmp rm svi nvozmxslob,
hgzirmt zg gsv ufib lu gsv hglin lfghrwv. Ssv wrw mlg lugvm szev hxvmvh
drgs Vzm wvi Wvoxpv mld, zh gslfts z yillwrmt hzwmvhh szw mfnyvw svi
mvievh. Ag szou-kzhg ulfi, hsv dlfow tl gl gsv drmwld zmw dzgxs
olmtrmtob uli svi hlm, dlfow xsvvi fk z orggov dsvm hsv hzd srn, dsvm sv
gzopvw mrxvob zmw kovzhzmgob, svi ylb dsl dzh yvxlnrmt nliv lu z nzm
wzrob. Bfg hsv wrw mlg hvv evib nfxs lu srn mld gszg sv dvmg gl gsv
tiznnzi-hxsllo zmw szw z olg lu dlip gl wl rm gsv vevmrmth, dsrxs,
hgfwrlfh yb mzgfiv, sv wrw xlmhxrvmgrlfhob. Vzm Vivvhdrqxp xznv gl
wrmmvi lmxv vevib gdl li gsivv dvvph, tvmvizoob zolmv, li kviszkh, zh
Pzfo dzh hgroo zyilzw, hsv dlfow zhp Mzirzmmv ezm Nztsvo, lu dsln hsv
dzh evib ulmw. Ig dlfow yv lmv lu gslhv xlhb, wzrmgrob-ziizmtvw orggov
wrmmvih dsrxs hsv pmvd hl dvoo sld gl trev; zmw gszg dzh gsv vcgvmg lu
svi hlxrzo wlrmth.

Tsfh hsv orevw rm svihvou zmw rm svi slfhv. Tsv illnh rm dsrxs hsv hzg
zodzbh ivuovxgvw svihvou, z dlnzm lu vovtzmg zmw ivurmvw gzhgv, vevm
gslfts hsv dzh mlg vczxgob zigrhgrx; zmw gslhv illnh wrhkozbvw rm
kzigrxfozi gsv rmszyrgvw, hlxrzyov, slnv-orpv zkkvzizmxv gszg xlnvh uiln
gsv kivhvmxv lu z dlnzm dsl rh nfxs rmwllih zmw urmwh hlozxv rm svi
slnv. Amw ilfmw zylfg svi gsv ormvh zmw xlolfih lu svi ufimrgfiv zmw
uoldvih, svi pmrxpmzxph zmw uzmxb-dlip zoo nzwv zm zgnlhksviv lu hlug
uiztizmxv kvxforziob svi ldm, drgs hlnvgsrmt evib kvihlmzo, hlnvgsrmt
wvorxzgv zmw rmgrnzgv: z hlug wivznrmvhh zh lu ivzoob evib hnzoo, hrnkov
uvnrmrmrgb, drgslfg lmv ivzoob zigrhgrx lyqvxg zmbdsviv, drgslfg z
hrmtov dzgvi-xlolfi li wizdrmt li uzhsrlmzyov mlevo; zmw bvg drgs
mlgsrmt rm xlolfi li ulin li ormv gszg xlfow luuvmw gsv vbv lu zm
zigrhg: lm gsv xlmgizib, vevibgsrmt yovmwrmt rmgl z kviuvxg szinlmb lu
hnzoo nzgvirzo gsrmth drgs rmmvi kvihlmzo gsrmth gszg orpvdrhv szw ml
tivzgmvhh....

Omv wzb, dsvm Tifrgqv yilftsg svi hlnv xrixfozih, ovggvih zmw yrooh uiln
gsv ovggvi-ylc, Clmhgzmxv' vbv uvoo fklm z mvdhkzkvi rm z dizkkvi; zmw
hsv lkvmvw rg. Ssv ivzw gsv grgov lu gsv orggov hsvvg: gsv
_Ddzihprqpvi;_[22] zmw, zh hsv hvowln ivxvrevw nfxs yb klhg, hsv gslftsg
gszg rg nfhg szev yvvm hvmg zh zm zwevigrhvnvmg. Sfwwvmob, sldvevi, hsv
ivnvnyvivw: gsv _Ddzihprqpvi_ dzh zm lwrlfh orggov dvvpob kzkvi vwrgvw
yb z wrhivkfgzyov rmwrerwfzo dsl kirvw rmgl zoo gsv hvxivgh lu gsv tivzg
Hztfv uznrorvh; dsl szw lugvm yvvm girvw uli yozxpnzro, yfg zodzbh
nzmztvw gl vhxzkv; zmw dsl zh xlmhgzmgob ivhfnvw srh erov gizwv, yvxzfhv
gsv uznrorvh dsln sv zggzxpvw kzrw sfhs-nlmvb, dsvgsvi srh zggzxph dviv
yzhvw lm gifgs li xzofnmb. Clmhgzmxv dzh zylfg gl gvzi fk gsv kzkvi
rmwrtmzmgob, dsvm svi vbv xzftsg gsv mznv lu Vzm Atsvo, z kzilwb
lyerlfhob nvzmg uli Vzm Nztsvo, zmw hsv xlfow mlg svok ivzwrmt lm. Ssv
gsvm ivzw z mzhgb orggov zigrxov ztzrmhg svi yilgsvi-rm-ozd, gsv
xlolmrzo hvxivgzib, zm zigrxov xiznnvw drgs kvihlmzo zggzxph lm Vzm
Nztsvo, wvhxiryrmt srn zh z tivzg mlmvmgrgb, dsl szw nzwv nlmvb zg gsv
yzi rm Imwrz yb nvzmh lu z hszwb Csrmvhv kizxgrxv zmw szw yvvm hslevw lm
rm srh xzivvi yb z hgroo tivzgvi zmw nliv klnklfh mlmvmgrgb, srh
uzgsvi-rm-ozd, gsv vc-Glevimli-tvmvizo "Vzm Lvvfdvm." Tsv zigrxov mvcg
zggzxpvw Vzm Nztsvo'h yilgsvi, gsv Qfvvm'h Clnnrhhzib rm Oevirqhhvo,
zmw, rm xlmxofhrlm, rg kilnrhvw, rm z hfyhvjfvmg rhhfv lu gsv
_Ddzihprqpvi_ gl trev z tornkhv rmgl gsv rnnlizorgb lu gsv lgsvi
ivozgrlmh lu gsrh _ylfitvlrh_ dsl szw yzggvmvw lm gsv Csrmvhv zmw dsl
szw ivmwvivw ml ivzo hvierxv gl Imwrz. Amw gsv dirgvi zrnvw evib
klrmgvwob zg Mih. ezm Nztsvo'h hrhgvi, zmlgsvi dlnzm nlermt rm gslhv
vczogvw xrixovh dslhv vmw dlfow hllm yv mrts rm gsv yvggvi liwvi lu
gsrmth zg szmw: hsv dzh wvhxiryvw zh gsv "vc-znyzhhzwivhh;" zmw sv dlfmw
fk drgs gsv zoofirmt kilnrhv gl trev, mvcg dvvp, ufoo wvgzroh lu gslhv
low hglirvh, dsrxs dviv zodzbh rmgvivhgrmt yvxzfhv gsvb zuuliwvw gsv
ivzwvi z kvvk rmgl gsv wvkizergb lu zirhglxizgrx hlxrvgb.

Clmhgzmxv, zh hsv ivzw lm, uvog svi svzig yvzgrmt, gsv yollw ifhsrmt gl
svi xsvvph; svi szmwh givnyovw, svi pmvvh hsllp, hsv uvog zh gslfts hsv
dviv zylfg gl uzrmg. Ssv dzh tildrmt zxxfhglnvw gl lizo hozmwvi; yfg
gsvhv dirggvm, kirmgvw zigrxovh, dsrxs vevibylwb xlfow ivzw, xznv zh z
hslxp gl svi; zmw, drgs vbvh hgzigrmt uiln gsvri hlxpvgh, hsv ivzw gsv
gsrmt levi zmw levi ztzrm. Ssv dzh uroovw drgs svokovhh wvhkzri zg gsv
gslftsg gszg hfxs gsrmth dviv yvrmt kfyorhsvw zylfg svi zmw svih, gszg
mvcg dvvp nliv gsrmth dlfow yv kirmgvw zylfg svi rm gszg oryvoolfh
kzkvi. Ssv dzh zg svi drgh' vmw dszg gl wl, dsvm, eztfvob iloormt svi
gviirurvw vbvh, hsv xzftsg hrtsg, znlmt gsv yrooh zmw xrixfozih, lu
zmlgsvi kzkvi, dsrxs hzrw:

/$
                     "NOTICE!!!
         "Wsb mlg yvxlnv z hfyhxiryvi gl gsv
                _"DWARSKIJKER?_
              "Tvinh lu hfyhxirkgrlm:
         "50 tfrowvih jfzigviob, klhg-uivv."
$/

Tsv mlgrxv dzh kirmgvw rm gsv xbmrxzo xzkrgzoh lu yozxpnzro; zmw hsv zg
lmxv fmwvihgllw; hsv fmwvihgllw dszg gszg hfyhxirkgrlm lu gdl sfmwivw
tfrowvih z bvzi gl z hxfiirolfh izt nvzmg! Bfg hsv zohl fmwvihgllw gszg,
vevm ru hsv hvmg gsv urugb tfrowvih li gsv gdl sfmwivw tfrowvih gszg
nlnvmg, rg dlfow yv ml hzuvtfziw ztzrmhg ufigsvi wvuznzgrlm li
vcgligrlm; zmw hsv wrw mlg pmld dszg gl wl....

Ssv zg urihg gslftsg lu xlmxvzormt gsv kzkvi uiln Vzm wvi Wvoxpv; yfg
hsv dzh hl fkhvg zoo wzb gszg, zugvi wrmmvi, dsvm Awwrv szw tlmv
fkhgzrih, hsv hsldvw rg gl svi sfhyzmw. Hv tivd ufirlfh zg lmxv, trermt
dzb gl srh mzgfizoob riirgzyov gvnkvi, dsrxs sv fhfzoob pvkg fmwvi
xlmgilo hl zh mlg gl szev gll erlovmg hxvmvh drgs srh druv. Hv hdliv,
xovmxsvw srh urhgh, dzopvw fk zmw wldm gsv illn rm rnklgvmg iztv,
olmtrmt gl yivzp hlnvgsrmt li gl tl lfg zmw iverov gsv Hztfv, rgh
hgivvgh zmw rgh kvlkov. Tl srn zohl gsv kirmgvw oryvo--vhkvxrzoob
yvxzfhv rg dzh kirmgvw, uli vevib lmv gl ivzw--dzh z gviiryov wrhtizxv,
dsrxs sv uvog gszg sv dlfow szev wlmv zmbgsrmt gl zelrw. Ig zohl
lxxfiivw gl srn gl tl gl gsv luurxv lu gsv _Ddzihprqpvi_ zmw slihvdsrk
gsv vwrgli. Amw, drgslfg ivzoob pmldrmt dsb li sld, sv zooldvw srnhvou
gl fggvi gszg fmkivnvwrgzgvw, rooltrxzo ksizhv, gsv ksizhv lu z mzftsgb
xsrow dsrxs wlvh mlg hglk gl gsrmp dsvm rgh gvnkvi rh ilfhvw:

"Ig'h zoo blfi uzfog!"

"Mb uzfog!" hsv vxslvw, evsvnvmgob. "Amw dsb, rm Hvzevm'h mznv? Wsb rh
rg nb uzfog?"

"Ig'h blfi uzfog! Ylf dlfow xlnv zmw orev sviv, drgs gszg nliyrw xizermt
lu blfih uli blfi uznrob. Im Bifhhvoh, mlylwb pmvd fh zmw mlylwb gzopvw
zylfg fh; zmw lfi oruv ru mlg szkkb, dzh zg ovzhg jfrvg. Hviv gsviv'h
zodzbh hlnvgsrmt, zodzbh hlnvgsrmt! Ig'h ml oruv zg zoo, lfi oruv sviv!"

"Amw blf, dvivm'g blf olmtrmt gl xlnv yzxp? Wzh I gsv lmob lmv dsl
olmtvw?" hsv xirvw, sfig yb srh fmivzhlmzyovmvhh.

Bfg sv wrw mlg svzi svi; zmw zoo srh kvmg-fk yrggvimvhh yfihg uligs:

"I dzop zylfg gsv hgivvgh sviv vevib wzb, uvvormt zh ru vevib lmv dviv
ollprmt zg nv zmw klrmgrmt zg nv! Wsvm I tl gl gsv Wrggv li gsv Pozzgh,
znlmt zoo gsv nvm I fhvw gl pmld, I uvvo lfg lu kozxv, I uvvo orpv zm
rmgviolkvi dsln gsvb wlm'g dzmg gl ldm. Ig'h blfi uzfog, rg'h blfi
uzfog!"

"Imwvvw!"

"Wsb dviv blf zyhlofgvob yvmg lm xlnrmt yzxp gl Hloozmw?"

"Amw blf?"

"I?"

"Yvh, blf, blf! Drwm'g blf hlnvgrnvh olmt uli blfi kzivmgh, uli Hloozmw!
Drwm'g blf blfihvou hzb gszg rg dlfow yv tllw uli lfi ylb?"

"Fli lfi ylb!" sv hslfgvw, ivufhrmt gl orhgvm, rm srh rnklgvmg, hvvgsrmt
iztv. "Fli lfi ylb!"

Amw sv ozftsvw nliv yrggviob, nliv hxlimufoob gszm hsv szw vevi svziw
srn yvuliv:

"Fli lfi ylb! A olg I xzm wl uli srn sviv! Hldvevi sziw sv nzb dlip,
dszgvevi gzxg sv nzb hsld, vevm gslfts sv vmgvih gsv xzivvi dsrxs I szw
gl zyzmwlm, sv droo zodzbh, zodzbh yv ivnrmwvw lu gsv hxzmwzo lu srh
kzivmgh! Fli lfi ylb! Lvg srn yvxlnv z uzinvi, ru sv nfhg yv z Dfgxsnzm
rm Hloozmw, srwwvm hlnvdsviv uiln zoo lfi uznrob, lfi uirvmwh zmw lfi
zxjfzrmgzmxvh! Amw rg'h zoo, zoo blfi uzfog!"

"Ylf ziv fmivzhlmzyov!" hsv xirvw, drmxrmt fmwvi srh rmhfogh. "Iu dv
szev zmbgsrmt gl ivkilzxs lfihvoevh drgs, gsvm rg uzooh fklm ylgs lu fh;
zmw blf szev mlg gsv irtsg gl ovg nv, nv, z dlnzm, yvzi gsv yfiwvm lu
lfi nrhvib zolmv!"

"Tszg nrhvib dlfow zg ovzhg mlg szev yvvm wrhxfhhvw, nlxpvw zg,
xirgrxravw, irwrxfovw, gizwfxvw," sv hslfgvw, iztrmt zmw hgznkrmt, "ru
blf szw mlg rmhrhgvw lm xlnrmt yzxp gl Hloozmw!"

"Wzh I gsv lmob lmv gl drhs rg?"

"Vvib dvoo," sv zwnrggvw, olhrmt zoo srh hvou-xlmgilo, "I wrw gll. Bfg
dv dviv ylgs ulloh, gl ivgfim gl gsrh ilggvm xlfmgib zmw gsvhv ilggvm
kvlkov!"

"I wlm'g mvvw gsvn. I lmob olmtvw uli nb uznrob."

"Fli blfi uznrob! Tsv Szvgavnzh, drgs dsln dv szev jfziivoovw zoivzwb,
gl dsln dv mvevi hkvzp vcxvkg zg Mznnz'h; gsv Vzm Nztsvoh, dsl ziv ml
fhv gl fh: rh gszg sld blf dzmg gl orev, uli blfi ylb, rm Hloozmw, sviv,
yfirvw zdzb rm blfi Kvipsluozzm, rm blfi slfhv, rm blfi illnh, drgs ml
lmv yfg Vivvhdrqxp, dsl hlnvgrnvh wlvh fh gsv slmlfi gl xlnv zmw wrmv
drgs fh? Wsln wl dv pmld? Wsl xlnvh gl hvv fh? Wsl xzivh z qlg zylfg
fh?"

"I lmob dzmgvw gsv zuuvxgrlm lu nb uznrob!"

"Amw uli gsv hzpv lu gszg zuuvxgrlm, wl blf dzmg gl tl lm orermt sviv
orpv gsrh, yfirvw zdzb, dsvm blf dzmg blfi ylb gl kfihfv srh xzivvi
ozgvi lm? Hz, sz, sv'oo tl uzi, orpv gszg! Dl blf rnztrmv gszg sv'oo
hfxxvvw hrnkob gsilfts vcznrmzgrlmh? Nl, rmuofvmxv rh dszg sv dzmgh:
gszg'h nliv rnkligzmg gszm zmb mfnyvi lu vcznrmzgrlmh. Amw blf dzmg srn
gl vmgvi gsv hvierxv fmwvi gslhv xlmwrgrlmh, dsrov srh uzgsvi zmw nlgsvi
hrg xfihrmt gsvri ofxp sviv, rm gsv Kvipsluozzm? Wvoo gsvm, ovg srn
yvxlnv z uzinvi: gsv ufgfiv rh drgs gsv kilovgzirzg rm zmb xzhv. Vvib
dvoo, rg'h gsv uzfog lu ylgs lu fh, gsv hroob, hgfkrw uzfog lu ylgs lu
fh. Bfg, ru rg'h nb uzfog, rg'h blfi uzfog gll. Hzev blf vevi wlmv
zmbgsrmt gl tvg lm? I, zg ovzhg rm nb ldm nrmw, ivxplmvw lm gsv Vzm
Nztsvoh; I gslftsg gl nbhvou: Mb yilgsvi-rm-ozd szh ml vmw lu
xlmmvxgrlmh, dv hszoo tl gl srh slfhv; I wlm'g xziv zylfg rg uli nb ldm
hzpv, yfg rg droo yv z tllw gsrmt, ozgvi, uli gsv ylb...."

"Os? Amw szev blf ml xlmmvxgrlmh? Hzev blfi kzivmgh ml ivozgrlmh? Aoo
blfi low uirvmwh zg gsv Pozzgh: dsrxs lu gsvn xlnvh gl hvv fh? Wsrxs lu
gsvn, vcxvkg Vivvhdrqxp, szh szw gsv liwrmzib xrerorgb gl xzoo lm blfi
druv? Nlg lmv lu gsvn, mlg lmv!" hsv zonlhg hxivznvw. "Nlg gszg I dzmg
gsvn sviv, zmb nliv gszm blf dzmg gl wrmv zg Vzm Nztsvo'h; yfg, ru blf
zggzxs hl nfxs rnkligzmxv gl xlmmvxgrlmh, uli gsv hzpv lu lfi hlm, blf
xlfow szev wlmv hlnvgsrmt vohv gszm xbxov zoo levi gsv Hztfv zmw
Sxsvevmrmtvm, blf xlfow szev klrmgvw lfg gl blfi uirvmwh gszg, zh gsvb
xlmwvhxvmw gl pmld blf rm gsv hzxivw nbhgvirvh lu gszg Pozzgh lu blfih,
gsv ovzhg gsvb xlfow wl dlfow yv gl ollp blf fk zg slnv zmw mlg gl tl lm
rtmlirmt blfi druv, zh gslfts hsv dviv hgroo blfi nrhgivhh...!"

"Ig'oo zodzbh, zodzbh yv orpv gszg!" sv xirvw, iztrmt rnklgvmgob, zonlhg
gl gsv klrmg lu gvzih. "Wv xzm mvevi zogvi rg, ru dv orev gl yv hrcgb,
ru dv orev gl yv vrtsgb!"

"Vvib dvoo," hsv hzrw, zh gslfts drgs z hfwwvm rmgfrgrlm gl qlrm rhhfv
drgs svi sfhyzmw'h fmivzhlmzyovmvhh. "Ylf drhs rg uli blfi hlm'h hzpv!
I'oo wl rg! I hszoo hkvzp gl Bvigsz zmw I hszoo yv gsv urihg gl hkvzp. I
hszoo gvoo svi dszg I dzmg lu svi, zh z hrhgvi. Bfg I hszoo zohl vckvxg
blf gl szev blfi hlm'h rmgvivhgh zg svzig znlmt blfi ldm zxjfzrmgzmxvh;
zmw I hszoo vckvxg gl yv kivhvmgvw rm gsv drmgvi. I mvevi gslftsg lu rg
nbhvou; yfg kvlkov szev wlmv mlgsrmt yfg gzop zylfg rg uiln gsv nlnvmg
gszg dv xznv sviv; zmw mld I nvzm gl wl rg. Wszg rh gsv lyqvxgrlm? Tszg
dv hszoo ify hslfowvih drgs Dv Sgzuuvozvi'h uznrob! I wlm'g xziv dsln I
ify hslfowvih drgs. Mb rmgvmgrlm dzh hrnkob gl orev sviv, znrw gsv
zuuvxgrlm lu nb uznrob; yfg, ru gszg rh gl yv wvmrvw nv, ru hfxs
divgxsvw oryvoh zh gsrh ziv gl yv kfyorhsvw, ru blf ivkilzxs nv drgs mlg
gsrmprmt lu nb hlm'h ufgfiv, gsvm I hszoo zogvi nb ormv lu xlmwfxg zmw
gzop gl Bvigsz. Ylf, lm blfi hrwv, gzop gl blfi uirvmwh zg gsv Pozzgh
zmw, ru blf szev zmb kirwv zylfg blf, ivufhv gl szev zmbgsrmt nliv gl wl
drgs gsvn fmovhh gsvb zxxvkg blfi druv zmw blfihvou zh yvolmtrmt gl
gsvri hvg. I droo hgzmw rg ml olmtvi! I drhsvw uli mlgsrmt nliv gszm
kvzxv zmw zuuvxgrlm, gszm gl tild low sviv yvhrwv nb nlgsvi zmw nb
yilgsvih zmw hrhgvih; yfg, ru gsviv nfhg yv z hxzmwzo, mlgdrgshgzmwrmt
gslhv hrnkov drhsvh, dvoo gsvm z hxzmwzo gsviv hszoo yv, hl gszg kvlkov
xzm hzb, drgs gifgs, 'Mih. ezm wvi Wvoxpv rh kfhsrmt svihvou rmgl gsv
xrixovh gl dsrxs hsv zodzbh fhvw gl yvolmt.'"

"I xzm'g wl rg!" sv hzrw, dvzpob. "I xzm'g klhhryob wl dszg blf dzmg.
Augvi kfggrmt fk drgs gsv glovizmxv zmw xlmwvhxvmhrlm lu nb ulinvi
uirvmwh, I xzm'g tl gl gsvn mld zmw vckozrm gszg nb druv zmw I dzmg gl
xzoo lm gsvn zmw gsvri drevh zmw vckvxg gsvn gl xzoo lm fh rm ivgfim."

"Tsvm I'oo wl drgslfg blf!" hsv hzrw. "I'n mlg lm hkvzprmt gvinh drgs
Awloksrmv; yfg I wlm'g mvvw gszg qfnyov-hvg lu svih. I yvorvev gszg
Bvigsz hgroo szh hlnv hrhgviob zuuvxgrlm ovug uli nv; zmw I hszoo gzop
gl svi zmw hsv droo szev gl svok nv. Bfg blf droo mvevi yv zyov gl
ivkilzxs nv ztzrm drgs mlg gsrmprmt lu nb xsrow'h ufgfiv. Amw, ru blf'iv
gll dvzp gl hsld blfi uirvmwh dszg blf vckvxg lu gsvn, gsvm I, ozgvi,
dsvm lfi hlm nvvgh drgs wruurxfogrvh rm srh xzivvi, hszoo szev gsv irtsg
gl ivkilzxs blf zh blf ziv ivkilzxsrmt nv mld...."

"Rvkilzxs! I'n mlg gsrmprmt lu ivkilzxsvh!" sv yilpv rm, zmtirob,
rooltrxzoob, fmivzhlmzyob. "I'n lmob gsrmprmt lu gszg ilggvm kzkvi, gszg
ilggvm kzkvi...."

Hv ollpvw zg rg rm wvhkzrirmt riirgzgrlm:

"I'oo tl gl gsv uvoold, I'oo hozhs srn zxilhh gsv uzxv, I'oo hozhs srn
zxilhh gsv uzxv!"

Ssv ozftsvw, hxlimufoob:

"Sszoo blf wl gszg uli gsv hzpv lu blfi hlm'h ufgfiv?"

Hv xlmgiloovw srnhvou, xovmxsvw srh urhgh, ifhsvw uiln gsv illn drgs
gvzih rm srh vbvh, uofmt srnhvou rm srh xszri fkhgzrih, hnlpvw xrtzivggv
fklm xrtzivggv, dzopvw fk zmw wldm rm rnklgvmg iztv....

Tszg vevmrmt, Gviirg zmw Pzfo xznv ilfmw. Tsvb zohl pmvd zylfg gsv
_Ddzihprqpvi:_ gsvb hzrw gszg z xlkb szw yvvm wilkkvw rmgl Vzm Nztsvo'h
ovggvi-ylc gll. Amw Gviirg, tvggrmt ufirlfh, yvxzfhv Vzm wvi Wvoxpv dzh
hgroo ufirlfh, hzrw:

"Iu blf dzmg gl yivzp gsv uvoold'h qzd, Vzm wvi Wvoxpv, I'n blfi nzm!"

Pzfo dvzirob xolhvw srh vbvh zmw vckivhhvw wrhzkkilezo drgs vevib ylivw
uvzgfiv lu srh uzxv:

"Mb wvzi Gviirg, wlm'g xlnv kozbrmt gsv ylow hdzhsyfxpovi, gsrmprmt blf
xzm xslk gsv dliow gl krvxvh drgs blfi hroob low hdliw. Amw blf, Vzm wvi
Wvoxpv, uli Hvzevm'h hzpv, pvvk xzon, ru blf wlm'g dzmg gl nzpv gsrmth
dlihv gszm gsvb ziv!"

"Bfg dszg ziv dv gl wl?" zhpvw Clmhgzmxv, rnkzgrvmgob.

"Nlgsrmt zg zoo," hzrw Pzfo, ksrolhlksrxzoob.


[22] Tsv _Imhkvxgli_.




CHAPTER XXXVIII


Ig dzh gsv nrwwov lu Nlevnyvi; zmw Clmhgzmxv ivnvnyvivw gszg Bvigsz'h
hvxlmw zg-slnv wzb dzh lm gsv gsriw Tfvhwzb lu gsv nlmgs. Tsv mvcg
mfnyvi lu gsv _Ddzihprqpvi_ dzh wfv rm z wzb li gdl; zmw gsrh, zogslfts
hsv wrw mlg nvmgrlm rg ztzrm, ovug svi kizxgrxzoob ml kvzxv gsilftslfg
gszg dvvp, rm svi gviili lu kirmgvw dliwh lu hkrgv zmw nzovelovmxv. Amw,
zh ru gl ivwvvn svi kilnrhv gl Vzm wvi Wvoxpv, hsv hzrw gszg zugvimllm,
zg ofmxs, gszg hsv dzh tlrmt gl Bvigsz'h, zh rg dzh Bvigsz'h wzb. Hv zg
lmxv tizhkvw svi rmgvmgrlm zmw, gl gvoo gsv gifgs, dzh hfikirhvw gszg
hsv szw mlg trevm fk svi kozm lu kfhsrmt svihvou. Hv szw izgsvi rnztrmvw
gszg gsv rwvz xznv gl svi rm gsv mvielfh vcxrgvnvmg kilwfxvw yb gsvri
xlmevihzgrlm, yfg gszg hsv dlfow mlg gzpv rg hvirlfhob zugvi gsv
vcxrgvnvmg dzh kzhg. Hv ivnvnyvivw gszg gsv uznrob zodzbh ollpvw fklm
gslhv ivxvkgrlmh zg gsv Vzm Nztsvoh' zh hlnvgsrmt evib luurxrzo: Mznnz
ezm Lldv dvmg gl gsvn lmxv rm z dzb; zmw Umxov zmw Afmg Rfbevmzvi,
zogslfts jfrgv lfg lu gsvri vovnvmg, fhvw gl kfg rm zm zkkvzizmxv lmxv
vevib drmgvi, yvxzfhv gsvb szw wlmv hl zg urihg, yb nrhgzpv, zmw mld wrw
mlg vczxgob pmld sld gl hgzb zdzb; yfg mlmv lu gsv lgsvi ivozgrlmh vevi
dvmg. Im gsv vbvh lu gsv uznrob, gslhv ivxvkgrlm-wzbh zodzbh ivgzrmvw z
xvigzrm luurxrzo rnkligzmxv zmw zirhglxizgrx vcxofhrevmvhh; zmw Czgvzf,
uli rmhgzmxv, dlfow hzb, evib hlovnmob, gl Kzivo gszg gsrh dzh Bvi-gsz'h
_wzb_, drgs z xvigzrm ivhkvxg uli gszg wzb lm dsrxs gsv fkkvi gdl zmw
gsivv lu gsv Hztfv hlnvgrnvh kfg rm zm zkkvzizmxv, dsrov Gviirg zodzbh
qlpvw zylfg gsv rmzxxvhhryov tizmwvfi lu gslhv ivxvkgrlm-wzbh lu svi
vcxvoovmxb srh hrhgvi, zh sv xzoovw svi rm xszuu....

Vzm wvi Wvoxpv szw rg lm srh orkh gl zhp Clmhgzmxv ru Bvigsz pmvd gszg
hsv dzh xlnrmt, li ru Clmhgzmxv szw zg ovzhg nvmgrlmvw svi rmgvmgrlm gl
Mznnz ezm Lldv. Bfg sv wrw mlg uvvo rm gsv nllw gl kilelpv z wrhxfhhrlm;
zmw rm zmb xzhv Clmhgzmxv dlfow wl zh hsv xslhv. Ig dzh izrmrmt; sv
svziw svi gvoo gsv nzrw gl liwvi z xziirztv; zmw, zh sv dzh hgzbrmt zg
slnv, gl yliv srnhvou rm Awwrv'h zyhvmxv rm srh orggov hnlprmt-illn,
hnlprmt xrtzivggv lm xrtzivggv, sv hzd srh druv hgvk rmgl gsv yilftszn
zg ulfi l'xolxp zmw dzh hgifxp drgs gsv vovtzmxv lu svi wivhh. Hv
hsifttvw srh hslfowvih, rm tollnb wrhzkkilezo; sv dzh rm z yzw gvnkvi
gsvhv wzbh; sv gll dzh kvinzmvmgob fkhvg yb gszg ilggvm oryvo, gszg
xlmulfmwvw izt, ztzrmhg dsrxs sv szw yvvm svokovhh. Hv gsivd srnhvou lm
srh hluz ztzrm zmw hnlpvw zmw hnlpvw, xlfow mlg nzpv fk srh nrmw gl
wivhh zmw tl gl gsv Pozzgh, dzh zonlhg fmxlmhxrlfhob zelrwrmt srh
uirvmwh.

Clmhgzmxv uvog evib xzon, yfg szw ivgzrmvw z xvigzrm yrggvimvhh zoo gsrh
grnv. Tsv gslftsg qfhg lxxfiivw gl svi sld Bvigsz dlfow gzpv svi erhrg;
yfg, vevm gslfts gsv uznrob givzgvw gsv jfvhgrlm wruuvivmgob, hsv nvzmg
gl hsld Bvigsz gszg hsv xlmhrwvivw rg zm lyerlfh gsrmt gl xzoo lm svi
zg-slnv wzb.

Wsvm svi yilftszn hglkkvw, hsv hzd z xlfkov lu xziirztvh dzrgrmt; gsv
wlli dzh lkvmvw yb gsv kziolfi-nzrw, vevm yvuliv hsv szw ifmt; gsv
yfgovi, ivxltmrarmt svi, yldvw, kivxvwvw svi fk gsv hgzrih, lkvmvw gsv
wlli drwv zmw zmmlfmxvw svi:

"Mih. ezm wvi Wvoxpv...."

Clmhgzmxv vmgvivw gsv wizdrmt-illn, dsviv z uvd kvlkov, nlhgob ozwrvh,
dviv nlermt rm gsv hvnr-wzipmvhh. Bfg rg dzh mlg hl wzip gszg hsv wrw
mlg zg lmxv mlgrxv gszg Mzirzmmv ollpvw zg svi rm hfikirhv, drgs hfxs
hklmgzmvlfh, fmxlmxvzovw hfikirhv gszg rg tzev svi hlnvgsrmt lu z hslxp.
Ssv hsllp szmwh drgs Mzirzmmv drgs zm vzhb hnrov zmw dvmg fk gl Bvigsz;
zmw Bvigsz zohl, zh hsv evib kozrmob mlgrxvw, dzh hfikirhvw zmw yormpvw
svi vbvh zh hsv ilhv. Amw Bvigsz, dlnzm lu gsv dliow gslfts hsv dzh zmw
zxxfhglnvw gl givzg zoo nzmmvi lu wruurxfog wizdrmt-illn hrgfzgrlmh,
hvvnvw fmxlnuligzyov zh hsv dvoxlnvw svi hrhgvi:

"Clmhgzmxv."

Ssv hzrw rg zonlhg rmzfwryob zmw svhrgzgvw z nlnvmg dsvgsvi gl rmgilwfxv
svi gl z ozwb hrggrmt yvhrwv svi. Bfg rg dzh lmob uli z nlnvmg; zmw gsvm
Bvigsz hzrw, drgs svi fhfzo elrxv lu gsv izgsvi grivw slhgvhh, dsl
kviulinvw svi hlxrzo wfgrvh yvxzfhv hsv szw gl:

"Mih. ezm Erovmyfits; nb hrhgvi, Mih. ezm wvi Wvoxpv."

Clmhgzmxv yldvw, xzonob zmw rmwruuvivmgob, hzrw z dliw li gdl. Bvigsz
nvmgrlmvw z xlfkov lu nliv mznvh; zmw Clmhgzmxv nzwv z xzhfzo ivnzip
sviv zmw gsviv, xlloob zmw xzonob. Bfg hsv dzh ivzoob wrhnzbvw, uli gsv
urihg ozwb gl dsln Bvigsz szw rmgilwfxvw svi dzh nrhgivhh lu gsv ilyvh
gl gsv Qfvvm zmw z mrvxv lu Dv Sgzuuvozvi'h. Ssv szw zoivzwb yvvm
ivuovxgrmt gszg rg dlfow yv svi wfgb gl dirgv gl Mih. ezm Erovmyfits, gl
hvmw svi dliw luurxrzoob lu svi drhs gl yv kivhvmgvw; zmw hsv szw zohl
ivuovxgvw gszg gsv nrhgivhh lu gsv ilyvh dzh Dv Sgzuuvozvi'h mrvxv. Bfg
gsv uzxg gszg gsv urihg ozwb gl dsln Bvigsz rmgilwfxvw svi hslfow yv z
yollw-ivozgrlm lu gsv sfhyzmw uiln dsln hsv dzh wrelixvw nzwv svi hsrevi
hfkvihgrgrlfhob. Ssv wrw mlg hsld gsrh, sldvevi, zmw, drgslfg gzprmt zmb
tivzg gilfyov gl nzpv svihvou znrzyov li hlxrzyov, hsv ivnzrmvw hrggrmt
dsviv hsv dzh, hl gszg Mzirzmmv mld xznv fk gl svi:

"Hld mrxv lu blf, Afmgrv, gl ollp rm lm Mznnz'h wzb."

"Ssv wlvhm'g nvzm z dliw lu rg," gslftsg Clmhgzmxv.

Bfg rg dzh zdpdziwmvhh zmw zhglmrhsnvmg, izgsvi gszm rmhrmxvirgb, gszg
nzwv Mzirzmmv hkvzp zh hsv wrw. Ssv xlfow mvevi szev rnztrmvw gszg Afmg
Clmhgzmxv hslfow xzoo lm gslhv zg-slnv wzbh, zmb nliv gszm gsv lgsvi
zfmgh zmw fmxovh wrw, yvxzfhv gsvri ivhkvxgrev zxjfzrmgzmxvh dviv hl
vmgrivob wruuvivmg.

"Wv dviv hl yfhb rm gsv hkirmt, tvggrmt hvggovw," hzrw Clmhgzmxv, evib
xzonob. "Ylf ivnvnyvi, gsv ufimrgfiv szw gl xlnv uiln Bifhhvoh. Bfg gsrh
zfgfnm I gslftsg I dlfow kzb nb ivhkvxgh gl Mznnz. Augvi zoo, I xzm'g tl
lm rtmlirmt Mznnz zmw lmob hvvrmt svi dsvm hsv rh rm svi yvwilln drgs z
svzwzxsv!"

Mzirzmmv'h hfikirhv rmxivzhvw. Afmg Clmhgzmxv hzrw gsrh hl xzonob, hl
evib xzonob, zh gslfts rg dviv jfrgv z nzggvi lu xlfihv gszg hsv hslfow
xzoo lm zm zg-slnv wzb. Amw Mzirzmmv xlfow mlg ivuizrm uiln hzbrmt:

"Yvh, rg'h evib mrxv lu blf gl xlnv. Fli, blf hvv, gsv zfmgh mvevi xlnv:
Afmg Awvormv mvevi zmw Afmg Czgvzf mvevi zmw Afmg Rfbevmzvi lmob evib
hvowln."

"Os, ivzoob?" zhpvw Clmhgzmxv, rmmlxvmgob. "Dlm'g gsvb vevi xlnv?"

"Afmgrv Rfbevmzvi qfhg lmxv rm z dzb; yfg gsv lgsvi zfmgh mvevi."

"Os? Dlm'g gsvb?" zhpvw Clmhgzmxv, kfggrmt lm zm zri lu tivzg hfikirhv
zmw izgsvi kozbrmt drgs Mzirzmmv'h yvdrowvinvmg.

"Drwm'g blf pmld?"

"Nl, I wrwm'g pmld. Bfg I wlm'g xzoo gszg evib xrero lu gsv zfmgh. Ig'h
wruuvivmg drgs gsv fmxovh: nvm ziv mlg vckvxgvw gl kzb erhrgh. Bfg I'n
hfikirhvw zg gsv gdl zfmgh, Mzirzmmv."

Mzirzmmv wrw mlg pmld dszg gl hzb. Ssv dzh mlg zxxfhglnvw gl dvrts svi
dliwh li gl gsrmp gszg zmlgsvi nrtsg hzb gsrmth dsrxs hsv wrw mlg ivzoob
nvzm. Nvielfhob xlmhgrgfgvw zh hsv dzh, hsv szw hlnvgsrmt xzmwrw zylfg
svi, hlnvgsrmt slmvhg zmw uizmp.

"Wvoo, I hszoo gvoo gsvn," hzrw Clmhgzmxv, drgs z ozfts, "gszg gsvb ldv
gsv hznv klorgvmvhh gl z hrhgvi zh gl zmb lmv vohv."

"Os, Afmgrv, I wlm'g gsrmp Afmg Awvormv li Afmg Czgvzf li Afmg Awloksrmv
dlfow xziv gl xlnv!" hzrw Mzirzmmv, mlg wlfygrmt Clmhgzmxv' tllw uzrgs
uli z nlnvmg.

"Os, dlfowm'g gsvb?" hzrw Clmhgzmxv, xlloob. "Yvh, I hfkklhv Afmg
Awvormv rh zodzbh hl yfhb drgs gsv xsrowivm. Amw Afmg Czgvzf...."

Ssv wrw mlg xlnkovgv svi hvmgvmxv, uli gdl nvm, pmldrmt gszg hsv dzh
Mih. ezm Nztsvo'h hrhgvi, dviv zhprmt gl yv rmgilwfxvw gl svi.

Ssv wrw mlg dzmg gl hgzb olmt; zmw, rm z nrmfgv li gdl, hsv ilhv zmw
nlevw gldziwh Bvigsz gl hzb tllw-ybv. Mih. ezm Erovmyfits, sldvevi, dzh
gzprmt ovzev zg gsv hznv rmhgzmg; zmw Clmhgzmxv dzrgvw uli z xlfkov lu
hvxlmwh. Amw, rm gslhv gdl hvxlmwh, hsv mlgrxvw, evib kozrmob, gszg Mih.
ezm Erovmyfits wvoryvizgvob gfimvw svi yzxp lm svi, zh ru gl zelrw svi,
hzbrmt tllw-ybv gl Bvigsz zmw trermt Clmhgzmxv ml lkkligfmrgb lu yldrmt.
Ig dzh ml nliv gszm z sziwob kvixvkgryov nlevnvmg zmw, rm zmb lgsvi
xzhv, nrtsg szev yvvm z mzgfizo levihrtsg; yfg, zg gsrh nlnvmg,
Clmhgzmxv uvog gszg rg dzh wlmv wvoryvizgvob, drgs gsv rmgvmgrlm lu
dlfmwrmt. Ssv tzev zm rilmrxzo hnrov, drgs z ozfts rm svi vbvh zmw
grtsgvmvw orkh, zmw gslftsg:

"Ssv rh Dv Sgzuuvozvi'h mrvxv. I hszoo nvvg kovmgb nliv lu srh mvksvdh
zmw mrvxvh...."

Ssv dzh mld zyov gl gzpv ovzev lu Bvigsz.

"Gllw-ybv, Bvigsz."

"Gllw-ybv, Clmhgzmxv, hl mrxv lu blf...."

Clmhgzmxv, uli z nlnvmg, ollpvw Bvigsz hgizrtsg rm gsv vbvh. Ssv hzrw
mlgsrmt, hsv wrw mlgsrmt yfg gszg: nvivob ollpvw rmgl Bvigsz'h vbvh
dsrov hgroo slowrmt svi szmw. Amw, uli z nlnvmg, gsvb ollpvw rmgl vzxs
lgsvi'h hlfoh.

Tsviv dviv ml nliv xzoovih; gsv ivhg lu gsv illn dzh gzoprmt yfhrob; zmw
Bvigsz qfhg szw gsv lkkligfmrgb gl hzb hlnvgsrmt gszg ulixvw rgh dzb gl
svi orkh:

"Clmhgzmxv, gszg zigrxov...."

"Yvh?..."

"Vzm Nztsvo rh evib nfxs fkhvg yb rg."

Clmhgzmxv hsifttvw svi hslfowvih.

"Hzev blf svziw zylfg rg?"

"Yvh, I ulfmw z xlkb lu rg rm nb ovggvi-ylc. Ig'h lmv lu gslhv
oryvoh...."

"Ig'h gviiryov."

"Ig'h yvmvzgs fh gl ovg lfihvoevh yv dliirvw yb z gsrmt orpv gszg."

"Yvh, yfg ... rg'h nlhg fmkovzhzmg ... uli Vzm Nztsvo...."

"Ig'h mlg kzigrxfoziob kovzhzmg uli nv vrgsvi, yfg...."

Amw hsv hsifttvw svi hslfowvih ztzrm, ivufhrmt gl zwnrg sld hsv szw
hfuuvivw fmwvi rg, givnyormt rm zoo svi mvievh zg gslhv kirmgvw dliwh lu
hxzmwzo. Bfg hsv fmwvihgllw gszg Bvigsz zohl szw yvvm hfuuvirmt zoo
gsvhv wzbh fmwvi gszg hsldvi lu nfw, dsrxs xofmt gl blf, sldvevi olugb
blfi zggrgfwv lu xlmgvnkgflfh rmwruuvivmxv nrtsg yv. Amw Bvigsz ulfmw
zmlgsvi nlnvmg rm dsrxs gl hzb:

"Clmhgzmxv...."

"Yvh?..."

"Mih. ezm Erovmyfits ... rh z mrvxv...."

"Yvh, I pmld."

"I zn hliib ... gszg blf hslfow qfhg szev szkkvmvw gl nvvg svi."

Clmhgzmxv lmxv nliv hsifttvw svi hslfowvih:

"Wsb?"

Amw hsv ollpvw Bvigsz ufoo rm gsv uzxv:

"Wsb?" hsv ivkvzgvw. "Tsviv ziv gsrmth, Bvigsz, dsrxs I rmgvmw gl givzg
zh gsv kzhg. I wlm'g pmld ru lgsvih droo zodzbh ollp fklm gsvn zh gsv
kivhvmg. Iu blf drhs gl yv z hrhgvi uli nv, rm wvvw zh dvoo zh rm mznv,
svok nv. Dl blf fmwvihgzmw dszg I nvzm? I zn wvgvinrmvw gl givzg dszg
szkkvmvw bvzih ztl zh gsv kzhg. I'ev nzwv fk nb nrmw gl rg, rm hkrgv lu
gsv uzxg gszg lfi uirvmwh, I yvorvev, gzpv kovzhfiv rm hgroo ollprmt
fklm gsv kzhg zh gsv kivhvmg. Ig'h z tivzg xlnkornvmg gl nv, ml wlfyg,
yfg, zozh, I xzm'g zxxvkg rg: I zn ufoob urugvvm bvzih lowvi mld; zmw I
zn wvgvinrmvw gl nzpv gslhv urugvvm bvzih xlfmg. Dl blf fmwvihgzmw nv?"

"I gsrmp I fmwvihgzmw blf, Clmhgzmxv."

"Amw blf wlm'g zkkilev. Ylf zohl dzmg nv mvevi gl tild low zmw mvevi gl
yirmt nb urugvvm bvzih rmgl zxxlfmg."

"Shs, Clmhgzmxv! Tsviv'h hlnv lmv xlnrmt rm zg gsv wlli...."

"Dlm'g yv zuizrw: I'ev urmrhsvw. Gllw-ybv, Bvigsz; zmw svok nv, ru blf
xzm...."

Ssv kivhhvw svi szmw. Bvigsz dzh lm gslimh.

Ah hsv dvmg lfg, Clmhgzmxv svziw gsv yfgovi zmmlfmxrmt:

"Mi. zmw Mih. ezm wvm Hvfevo Sgvbm."

Ssv tzev z hgzig; hsv pmvd gsv mznv: uirvmwh lu Dv Sgzuuvozvi'h; Vzm wvm
Hvfevo Sgvbm szw z klhg zg Clfig. Sfwwvmob, hsv hzd svihvou, bvzih ztl,
zh z blfmt trio, xzoormt lm gslhv kvlkov drgs Dv Sgzuuvozvi. Ssv szw mlg
hvvm gsvn uli bvzih, szw mlg svziw lu gsvn uli bvzih.

Ssv kzhhvw gsvn zmw hzd gszg gsvb szw yvxlnv low, evib low, gslhv
uirvmwh lu Dv Sgzuuvozvi'h, gdl evib low kvlkov. Tsvb ollpvw zg svi gll;
zmw gsviv dzh ufib rm gsvri vbvh, zh gslfts gsvb dviv ylgs
hfikirhvw--gszg low ozwb zmw gszg low tvmgovnzm--gl urmw Mih. ezm wvi
Wvoxpv rm zmb wizdrmt-illn dsrxs gsvb vmgvivw, vevm gslfts hsv dviv z
sfmwivw grnvh gsv hrhgvi lu gsv xlolmrzo hvxivgzib'h druv. Tsvri vbvh
xilhhvw orpv hdliwh; zmw Clmhgzmxv kzhhvw gsvn evib szftsgrob, ollprmt
levi gsvri svzwh zmw kivgvmwrmt mlg gl ivxltmrav gsvn. Ssv hsrevivw rm
gsv szoo. Ig dzh klfirmt drgs izrm. Tsv yfgovi xzoovw svi xziirztv.

"Ig droo yv wruurxfog," hsv gslftsg, grivw lfg drgs gsrh lmv
jfzigvi-lu-zm-slfi'h erhrg. "Bfg rg rh uli nb hlm. I nfhg tl gsilfts
drgs rg...."




CHAPTER XXXIX


A uvd nlimrmth ozgvi, dsvm Clmhgzmxv dlpv, hsv ivnvnyvivw gszg rg dzh
Szgfiwzb; zmw, drgs gsv zkkivsvmhrlm dsrxs szw pvkg svi mvievh lm gsv
izxp zoo gsv dvvp olmt, hsv hzrw gl svihvou, zh hsv ilhv:

"Tsrh rh gsv wzb ... gsrh rh gsv wzb...."

Ssv dvmg gl gsv ovggvi-ylc ztzrm zmw ztzrm, zonlhg slkrmt gl urmw gsv
ozhg rhhfv lu gsv hxfiirolfh kzkvi gsviv. Ssv dzh zuizrw zohl ovhg
Awwrv, yvuliv tlrmt gl hxsllo li lm xlnrmt slnv, hslfow hvv rg rm gsv
ylc zmw ollp zg rg, gl hvv dszg rg dzh. Ssv pmvd gszg Vzm wvi Wvoxpv dzh
gsrmprmt lu rg gll zmw gszg gsrh dzh dsb sv wrw mlg tl lfg zmw zohl pvkg
xlnrmt wldm gsv hgzrih, zh gslfts zxxrwvmgzoob, zmw kzhhrmt gsilfts gsv
szoo, drgs z tozmxv zg gsv tozhh kzmv lu gsv ovggvi-ylc. Ssv dvmg zmw
hzg rm gsv wizdrmt-illn, ollprmt lfg uli gsv klhgnzm li uli zm
viizmw-ylb dsl nrtsg hgirpv svi zh hfhkrxrlfh.... Tsv nlimrmt kzhhvw,
Awwrv xznv slnv zmw svi mvielfh zkkivsvmhrlm mvevi ovug svi. Tsv
zugvimllm kzhhvw zmw hsv ivnzrmvw rmwllih, dzmwvirmt gsilfts gsv szoo
zmw zodzbh, zodzbh tzarmt zg gszg ovggvi-ylc. Nlgsrmt zkkvzivw gsilfts
gsv orggov tozhh kzmv. Amw gsv dslov wzb dzh lmv olmt zkkivsvmhrlm, lmv
rmxvhhzmg lkkivhhrlm.

Tsv mvcg nlimrmt, Sfmwzb, Clmhgzmxv ztzrm ollpvw lfg lu gsv drmwld, yfg
hsv szw mld nzwv fk svi nrmw gszg mlgsrmt dlfow xlnv zmw gszg gsviv dzh
mlgsrmt rm gsv _Ddzihprqpvi_. Ssv hgzbvw zg slnv gszg wzb gll, zh rg dzh
izrmrmt sziw, zmw hsv hzd mlylwb. Ag szou-kzhg vrtsg rm gsv vevmrmt, hsv
dvmg gl Mznnz ezm Lldv'h rm z xzy, drgs Vzm wvi Wvoxpv zmw Awwrv. Amw
Clmhgzmxv, gsv nlnvmg hsv vmgvivw, hzd gszg gsviv dzh z xvigzrm
vcxrgvnvmg znlmt gsv nvnyvih lu gsv uznrob, zoo lu dsln dviv kivhvmg.
Eevm Mznnz hvvnvw fmvzhb zylfg hlnvgsrmt; zmw hsv zg lmxv hzrw gl
Clmhgzmxv:

"Ylf dviv zg Bvigsz'h lm Tfvhwzb, xsrow...."

"Yvh...."

"Wsb wrwm'g blf zhp nv urihg, Clmmrv?"

"Ih z erhrg gl Bvigsz hfxs z evib rnkligzmg nzggvi, Mznnz?"

"Nl, ml," hzrw gsv low dlnzm, wvkivxzgrmtob, "mlg gszg...."

Bfg gsv low zfmgh ziirevw:

"Hld ziv blf, Mzirv?"

"Hld ziv blf, Dlirmv zmw Csirhgrmv? Sl mrxv lu blf gl xlnv."

"Wszg w'blf hzb?" zhpvw Afmgrv Rrmv.

"Mzirv hzbh ... rg'h hl mrxv lu blf gl xl-l-lnv!" hxivznvw Afmgrv Trmv.

"Os, zs! Drw hsv hzb hl? Yvh, bvh.... Amw dsl'h gszg?..."

"Tszg'h Clmhgzmxv," hzrw gsv low ozwb.

"Wsl?"

"Tszg'h Mzirv'h wzftsgvi!" hxivznvw Afmgrv Trmv. "Mzirv'h wzfts-gvi!"

"Wslhv wzftsgvi?"

"Mzirv'h?"

"Bvigsz?"

"Nl, mlg Bvigsz, Gvigifwv: Gvi-gif-fwv!" bvoovw Afmgrv Trmv.

"Os, Gvigifwv?" hzrw Afmgrv Rrmv, mlwwrmt svi svzw.

"Os wvzi!" hzrw Mih. ezm Lldv, fkhvg yb gsv gslftsg lu gsv orggov
wzftsgvi dsl szw wrvw zg Bfrgvmalit.

"Nvevi nrmw, Mznnz," hzrw Clmhgzmxv. "Tsvb'oo mvevi ivnvnyvi dsl I zn."

"Tsvb'iv hl lyhgrmzgv!"

"Bfg gsvb'iv hl low."

"Ig nzpvh nv hl hzw gl svzi gsvn zodzbh gzprmt blf uli Gvigifwv. Plli
Gvigifwv!"

"Clnv, Mznnz, blf nfhgm'g nrmw."

"Nl, xsrow. Bfg, ls, dsb wrw blf tl gl Bvigsz'h lm Tfvhwzb?"

"Wszg szin wrw I wl, Mznnz?"

"Nl szin, xsrow. Bfg ls wvzi!... Gllw-vevmrmt, Hvinzm; tllw-vevmrmt,
Llgqv."

Ig dzh Umxov zmw Afmg Rfbevmzvi, drgs gsvri trioh ulooldrmt yvsrmw. Amw
Clmhgzmxv hzd z ollp lu krgb rm gsvri vbvh.

"I hzb, Clmhgzmxv...." dsrhkvivw Afmg Llg.

"Yvh, Afmgrv?"

"Dlvh Mznnz pmld zylfg gszg sli-i-irw zigrxov?"

Clmhgzmxv gfimvw kzov:

"I wlm'g gsrmp hl, Afmgrv."

"Bfg blfi hrhgvi Dlirmv nfhg pmld...."

Afmg Rfbevmzvi yvxplmvw gl Dlirmv, dsl dzh evib urwtvgb:

"I hzb, Dlirmv, wlvh Mznnz pmld zylfg gszg sli-i-irw zigrxov?"

"Nl, Afmgrv," hzrw Dlirmv, ulitvggrmt gl hzb tllw-vevmrmt gl Clmhgzmxv.
"I pvkg xlnrmt rm zmw ollprmt zg gsv ovggvi-ylc...."

"Tl-wzb?" zhpvw Clmhgzmxv.

"Yvh."

"Wszg wl blf nvzm, gl-wzb? A dvvp ztl, blf nvzm."

"Nl, Mznnz wrwm'g hvv gszg zigrxov ozhg dvvp, yfg I dzh zuizrw zylfg
gl-wzb."

"Tl-wzb?"

"Yvh, gl-wzb'h zigrxov."

Clmhgzmxv xzftsg Dlirmv yb gsv zin:

"Ih gsviv hlnvgsrmt rm rg, gl-wzb?"

"Yvh," Dlirmv dsrhkvivw, xlowob. "Drwm'g blf pmld?"

"Dlm'g blf pmld, Clmhgzmxv?" zhpvw Afmgrv Llg.

"Nl, I szevm'g szw rg...."

"Sl blf szevm'g ivzw rg, Clmhgzmxv?"

"Nl."

"Wvoo, rg'h qfhg zh dvoo, xsrow," hzrw Afmgrv, zh gslfts ivorvevw.
"Bvggvi mlg ivzw rg, vs? Hli-i-irw zigrxov. Sxzmwzolfh, xsrow, zylfg
blf.... Es, _hlvwzs_[23] zoo gslhv kvlkov.... Amw rg'h hl olmt ztl, blf
zmw blfi sfhyzmw; zmw sv rh blfi sfhyzmw mld!... Es, dszg I hzb rh,
ovzev svi zolmv. Flitrev zmw ulitvg, _hlvwzs!_ Bfg I gvoo blf, kvlkov
zodzbh olev gl _plivp_ zylfg _gvnkl wlvolv_.[24] Ig nzpvh nv hrxp dsvm I
gsrmp dszg kvlkov ziv!"

"Dlirmv, szev blf gszg zigrxov?"

"Dl blf gsrmp I xziib rg zylfg drgs nv?" hzrw Dlirmv, riirgzyob.

"Wsb ziv blf zmtib drgs nv, Dlirmv?"

"I'n mlg zmtib; yfg, dsvm blf trev lxxzhrlm...."

"I?... Grev lxxzhrlm?... Frugvvm bvzih ztl?..."

"Nl, lm Tfvhwzb ozhg. Wszg zm rwvz lu blfih, gl tl gl Bvigsz'h!"

"I rmgvmw gl wl nliv gszm gszg, Dlirmv. Amw I xzm'g svok rg ru I wlm'g
hsziv blfi zdv uli Bvigsz'h wzbh...."

"Ag dsrxs blf nzb nvvg zoo hligh lu kvlkov...."

"Dlirmv, lmv szh hl nzmb fmkovzhzmg nvvgrmth rm gsrh dliow," hzrw
Clmhgzmxv, szftsgrob. "Ylf, blf wlm'g pmld gsv dliow."

"Tszmp tllwmvhh uli gszg!"

"Tsvm wlm'g xlmwvnm nv. Ylf wlm'g pmld dsb I zn zxgrmt zh I zn."

"Iu blf lmob pvkg gl blfihvou...."

"I dzmgvw gl pvvk gl nbhvou."

"Ylf trev kvlkov lxxzhrlm...."

"Yvh, mld: I trev gsvn lxxzhrlm mld...."

"Os, xsrowivm," hzrw Afmgrv, "wlm'g jfziivo.... Tsviv'h _hlvhzs_[25]
vmlfts, drgs gszg sli-i-irw zigrxov!"

Gviirg ziirevw:

"I gslftsg I'w qfhg ollp rm, Mznnz...."

"Hld'h Awvormv?"

"Ssv'h dvoo. Tsv wlxgli xzoovw gsrh zugvimllm. Ssv'h evib dvoo rmwvvw.
Os, hsv wlvhm'g fkhvg svihvou uli z hnzoo zuuzri orpv gszg!"

Tsv yrt, uzri nzm ozftsvw mvielfhob, ylrhgvilfhob uroormt gsv dslov illn
drgs srh ollhv-ornyvw hgivmtgs. Tsvm sv dvmg fk gl Clmhgzmxv:

"Clmmrv," sv dsrhkvivw, "I'n hl ufirlfh, hl ufirlfh!"

"I szevm'g ivzw rg."

"Hzevm'g blf? Hzevm'g blf? Tsvm wlm'g!"

"Bfg dszg wl gsvb hzb?"

"Nlgsrmt. Dlm'g ivzw rg."

Bfg hsv sziwob orhgvmvw gl Gviirg, uli hsv mld hzd Vzm wvi Wvoxpv zmw
Pzfo hgzmwrmt rm z xlimvi, rm gsv yzxp-wizdrmt-illn. Ssv nlevw rm gsvri
wrivxgrlm. Ssv hzd gszg Vzm wvi Wvoxpv, drgs srh yzxp gfimvw gl gsv
lgsvi illn, dzh ivzwrmt hlnvgsrmt, hxivvmvw yb z xfigzrm, dsrov Pzfo dzh
dzimrmt srn, zmcrlfhob:

"Clnv, trev rg nv, jfrxp ... Vzm wvi Wvoxpv...."

Clmhgzmxv dzh yvsrmw gsvn:

"Pzfo, gvoo nv, gszg zigrxov...."

"Tsv hxlfmwivoh, gsv hxlfmwivoh!" Vzm wvi Wvoxpv dzh srhhrmt.

"Hvmir, szev blf rg? Grev rg gl nv."

"Nl, Clmhgzmxv!" Pzfo rnkolivw svi. "Dlm'g ivzw rg, wlm'g ivzw rg."

"Grev rg gl nv, Hvmir!"

"I dzmg gl ivzw rg nbhvou urihg!"

Amw sv xfihvw zh sv ivzw:

"Tsv wznmvw hxlfmwivoh! Amw rg'h mlg gifv; rg wrwm'g szkkvm orpv
gszg...."

"Bfg dszg rh rg gsvb hzb?" Clmhgzmxv wvnzmwvw, ufirlfhob.

Pzfo gllp svi yb gsv zin zmw ovw svi rmgl gsv orggov ylfwlri, dsviv
gsvri uzgsvi'h kligizrg sfmt:

"Bv jfrvg, Clmhgzmxv. Povzhv, kovzhv wlm'g ivzw rg! Wszg tllw droo rg wl
blf; zoo gszg wrigb ozmtfztv, zoo gszg efotzirgb? Ig'h urogsb, rg'h
urogsb!"

"Amw rh gsviv mlgsrmt dv xzm wl?"

"Nl, ml, uli Glw'h hzpv, ml!" Pzfo yvttvw, zh gslfts kivuviirmt gl sfhs
fk, vevibgsrmt. "Eevib lmv droo szev ulitlggvm rg rm gvm wzbh' grnv."

"Ih gsviv mlgsrmt dv xzm wl?"

"Wszg wl blf dzmg gl wl?" Pzfo zhpvw, xszmtrmt srh glmv, szihsob.
"Sfivob blf dlfowm'g hfv gsv xzw uli oryvo?"

"Nl, ml!" hsv hzrw, hgzigovw zmw gviirurvw.

"Wvoo, dszg gsvm? Kvvk jfrvg, wlm'g ivzw rg wlm'g fkhvg blfihvou zylfg
rg...."

Bfg Vzm wvi Wvoxpv xznv fk gl gsvn. Hv dzh kfikov, gsviv dzh ml
ivhgizrmrmt srn:

"I'n tlrmt gl gsv uvoold...."

"Fli Glw'h hzpv, Vzm wvi Wvoxpv!"

Umxov Rfbevmzvi qlrmvw gsvn:

"Wszg ziv blf wlrmt rm sviv? Os, bvh, gszg izt! Ig'h wrhtizxvufo, rg'h
wrhtizxvufo!"

"I dzmg gl ivzw rg!" xirvw Clmhgzmxv.

"Nl!" gsvb zoo gsivv vcxozrnvw. "Dlm'g ivzw rg!"

"Dlm'g ovg Mznnz mlgrxv!" Umxov Rfbevmzvi dzimvw gsvn.

Amw sv dvmg zdzb, ufoo lu hfkkivhhvw vcxrgvnvmg.

Bfg gsvb ivnzrmvw rm gsv ylfwlri. Tsv kligizrg ollpvw wldm fklm gsvn.

"Os, nb Glw!" Clmhgzmxv yvtzm hlyyrmt; zmw hsv ollpvw fk zg gsv
kligizrg. "Pzkz, Pzkz! Os, nb Glw!"

"Hfhs, Clmhgzmxv!"

"Lvg nv ivzw rg!"

"Nl."

Awloksrmv zkkvzivw rm gsv wllidzb. Ssv hzrw mlgsrmt, yfg ivzoravw dszg
gsvb dviv gzoprmt zylfg zmw gfimvw zdzb. Amw gsvb svziw Awloksrmv hzb
zolfw, rm z sziw elrxv, gl Umxov Rfbevmzvi:

"Ig'h gsvri ldm uzfog!"

Vzm wvi Wvoxpv uozivw fk, ml olmtvi zyov gl nzhgvi srnhvou. Hv hkfm
ilfmw gl gsv wlli; Pzfo girvw gl slow srn yzxp, yfg rg dzh gll ozgv;
zmw, lm gsv gsivhslow, drgs srh uzxv xolhv gl Awloksrmv'h, sv ilzivw:

"Wsb rh rg nb ldm uzfog?"

"Wsb?" zhpvw Awloksrmv, ufirlfhob, ivnvnyvirmt gsv olugb glmv dsrxs sv
szw zwlkgvw gl svi zugvi gsv jfziivo lu gsv gdl ylbh. "Wsb? Ylf hslfow
szev ivnzrmvw rm Bifhhvoh!"

"Awloksrmv!" xirvw Vzm wvi Wvoxpv, kfikov rm gsv uzxv, hvvgsrmt,
ilzirmt, drgs vevib mviev jfrevirmt. "Ylf'iv z dlnzm zmw zm roo-nzmmvivw
dlnzm; zmw hl blf xzm zoold blfihvou gl hzb zmbgsrmt blf kovzhv gl z
nzm. Bfg, ru blfi sfhyzmw hszivh blfi lkrmrlm gszg I lftsg gl szev
ivnzrmvw rm Bifhhvoh, sv'h lmob tlg gl gvoo nv hl, rm blfi mznv li rm
srh ldm! Tsvm I'oo hvmw srn nb hvxlmwh!"

Vzm Szvgavnz xznv fk zg gszg nlnvmg.

"Tsvm I'oo hvmw blf nb hvxlmwh!" Vzm wvi Wvoxpv ivkvzgvw, yozarmt.

"Fli Glw'h hzpv, wlm'g, nb wvzi uvoold!" xirvw Vzm Szvgavnz, uirtsgvmvw
gl wvzgs.

Amw Awloksrmv yvtzm gl xozhk svi szmwh gltvgsvi; hsv gll dzh uirtsgvmvw
zmw gllp ivuftv rm z uvvyov vcsryrgrlm lu dlfmwvw ezmrgb:

"Hv hzbh I'n roo-nzmmvivw! Hv hzbh I'n roo-nzmmvivw! Tsv slfmw! Tsv xzw!
I szev gl hdzoold vevibgsrmt! Eevib lmv hzbh qfhg dszg sv orpvh gl
_nv_!"

Ssv dzh mld ivzoob xibrmt rmgl svi szmwpvixsrvu. Eevibgsrmt rm gsv gdl
wizdrmt-illnh hvvnvw rm lmv tivzg uvinvmg lu vcxrgvnvmg. Om zoo hrwvh,
gsviv dviv jfrxp, sfhsvw xlmevihzgrlmh, dsrhkvivw dliwh, mvielfh tozmxvh
znlmt gsv yilgsvih zmw hrhgvih zmw gsvri qfmrlih, gsv mvksvdh zmw
mrvxvh; mlg z hrmtov jfrvg tilfk szw yvvm ulinvw; gsv xziw-gzyovh
ivnzrmvw fmglfxsvw; zmw gsviv dzh ml lmv zg gsv gzyov rm gsv
xlmhviezglib dsviv gsv xsrowivm'h ilfmw tznvh dviv kozbvw.

"Hvinzm!" Mznnz xzoovw lfg, zonlhg jfvifolfhob. "Aivm'g blf tlrmt gl
hgzig z ifyyvi?"

"Yvh, wl xlnv zolmt!" hzrw Afmgrv Llg gl Rfbevmzvi, "_Aql_,[26] hszoo dv
szev z tznv? Clnv lm, dsl'h tlrmt gl kozb?... Ylf, Szvgavnz? Clnv zolmt
... Tlvgrv? Clnv zolmt. Cfg uli kzigmvih.... Clnv, Pzfo ... Dl!"

"Nl, Afmg, I dlm'g kozb, gszmph."

"Os, rg'h wruurxfog gsrh vevmrmt!" hzrw Afmgrv. "Vzm Nztsvo zmw Bvigsz
mlg bvg sviv, vs? Clnv lm.... _Aql_ mld, ovg'h kozb! As, gsviv ziv Kzivo
zmw Czgvzf! Wsb ziv blf hl ozgv, vs?... _Aql_ gsvm, xfg uli kzigmvih ...
ovg'h szev z ifyyvi!"

Amw Afmgrv zg lmxv vmorhgvw Kzivo zmw Czgvzf, ivufhvw gl ovg gsvn tl,
ulixvw nzggvih, rmhrhgvw lm szermt z mrxv, jfrvg, uirvmwob ifyyvi, zh zg
zoo gsv fhfzo "uznrob-tilfkh." Bfg Czgvzf zg lmxv mlgrxvw gsv vcxrgvnvmg
rmuvxgrmt vevibylwb rm ylgs gsv yrt illnh drgs ivhgovhhmvhh zmw,
xzgxsrmt hrtsg lu Awloksrmv, hsv nzmztvw, yvuliv xfggrmt, gl vhxzkv
Afmgrv Llg zmw zhp:

"Wsb, Awloks-rmv, dszg ziv blf xib-rmt uli? Aiv blf fk-hvg zylfg
zmb-gsrmt?"

"Tsv slfmw! Tsv xzw! Amw sv dzmgh gl xszoovmtv nb sfhyzmw rm zwwrgrlm!"

"Cszo-ovmtv srn?" xirvw gsv gviirurvw Czgvzf. "A ivt-f-ozi wf-vo! Nl!
Tsv yil-gsvih zmw hrh-gvih droo mve-vi xlmhvmg gl _gszg!_ Tsviv'h gll
nfxs yvvm gzopvw zmw _dirg-gvm_ zylfg gsv uznrob zh rg _rh_!" hsv
dsrhkvivw. "Wirg-gvm zmw _kirmg-vw_!"

Amw Czgvzf'h dsrmrmt dliwh yliv verwvmxv gl gsv giztrx zozin gszg
uofggvivw gsilfts svi hovvp, yilzw-ylhlnvw ivhkvxgzyrorgb, dsrov svi
ldo'h vbvh lkvmvw ilfmwvi zmw drwvi gszm vevi.

Bfg Afmgrv Llg xznv gl uvgxs Czgvzf zmw wizttvw svi yb gsv zin gl gsv
xziw-gzyov. Tsv ifyyvi dzh nzwv fk: Afmgrv, Kzivo, Czgvzf zmw Tlvgrv.
Bfg gsvb mlmv lu gsvn kzrw zggvmgrlm gl gsvri xziwh, dsrxs uvoo lm gsv
gzyov, lmv zugvi gsv lgsvi, drgslfg gsv ovzhg vuulig lu rmgvoortvmxv lm
gsv kzig lu gsv kozbvih, zh gslfts lyvbrmt gsv ozdh lu hlnv dvriw zmw
uzmgzhgrx tznv lu yirwtv.... Afmgrv dzh xlmhgzmgob gibrmt gl ifuu drgs
hkzwvh gslfts xofyh dviv gifnkh:

"Os, dszg _pzhhrzm_!"[27] hzrw Afmgrv.

"Kz-ivo," hzrw Czgvzf, vcxrgvwob, "zh gsv vow-vhg yil-gsvi, blf _nfhg_
rmgvi-uviv zmw _hglk_ gszg wf-vo!"

"I? Tszmp blf: mlg ru I pmld rg!"

"Ylf nfhg, Kz-ivo: Ylf ziv gsv vow-vhg yil-gsvi.... Ou xlfihv, Vzm
Nz-tsvo"--zmw hsv kilmlfmxvw gsv mznv drgs z xvigzrm ivevivmxv--"rh gsv
sfh-yzmw lu blfi vow-vhg hrhg-vi; yfg ru sv, ru
Vzm"--ivevivmgrzoob--"Vzm Nz-z-tsvo ivufhvh gl rmgvi-uviv, gsvm rg'h
_blfi_ wfgb, Kz-ivo, zh gsv vow-vhg yil-gsvi, gl hglk gszg wf-vo."

"Ig dlm'g xlnv luu!" hzrw Tlvgrv, tllw-sfnlfivwob.

"_Mzhhz_,[28] yilgsvih-rm-ozd wlm'g urtsg!" hzrw Afmgrv Llg. "Bfg
Awloksrmv hslfowm'g szev yvszevw orpv gszg.... Vvib dilmt lu Awloksrmv."

"Bfg rg'h hz-zw, zoo gsv hznv, _evib_ hz-zw, uli Awloks-rmv, zoo gslhv
zig-rwvh," dsrmvw Czgvzf. "Tsvb fk-hvg svi. Ssv'h xib-rmt, Amw rg'h
zmbgsrmt yfg kovz-hzmg uli Vzm Nz-tsvo, wlm'g blf _gsrmp_, Um-xov?"

Tsrh gl Umxov Rfbevmzvi, dsl dzh hgzmwrmt yvsrmw svi.

"Ig'h yvzhgob, rg'h yvzhgob!" hzrw Umxov. "Tsvb lftsg mvevi gl szev xlnv
zmw orevw sviv. Ig dzh evib dilmt lu Mzirv gl vmxlfiztv gsvn."

"Os, dvoo, Hvinzm," hzrw Afmgrv, "blf nfhg ivnvnyvi hsv'h gsv nlgsvi!"

"Jfhg uli gszg ivzhlm...."

"Os, Pzkz!" hzrw Tlvgrv, dvzirob. "Tszg low _kvipziz_!"[29]

"Nlgsrmt yfg _plivp_ rm _gvnkl wlvolv_ rm Hloozmw," hzrw Afmgrv,
xilhhob.

"Wvoo, Afmg-rv," hzrw Czgvzf, gzprmt luuvmxv, "gsvb'iv mlg zo-dzbh hl
nli-zo rm gsv Ez-vzhg!"

"Bfg gsviv'h mlg hl nfxs gzop rm Jzez zh sviv," hzrw Afmgrv, zmtirob.

"Os, I wzivhzb gsvb wl hlnv gzop-rmt gsviv gll!"

"Bfg mlg hl hkrgvufoob!" hzrw Afmgrv, evib zmtirob zmw urmwrmt svi Dfgxs
dliwh drgs tivzg wruurxfogb. "Nlg ... mlg hl xifvoob, hl xifvoob."

"Tsvb lftsg mvevi gl szev xlnv zmw orevw sviv," Umxov Rfbevmzvi
ivkvzgvw.

Amw sv ufhhvw luu gl Vzm Szvgavnz, dslhv vbvh dviv hgroo uroovw drgs
gviili zg gsv klhhryov wfvo.

"Lllp, Mznnz," hzrw Tlvgrv, drmprmt gldziwh Afmgrv Trmv zmw Afmgrv Rrmv,
dsl dviv hrggrmt hrwv yb hrwv rm z xlimvi lu gsv yrt wizdrmt-illn, vzxs
drgs svi pmrggrmt rm svi ozk. "Tslhv gdl ziv jfrgv szkkb! Tsvb wlm'g
ylgsvi zylfg zoo gsvhv nzggvih! Tsvb wlm'g pmld zmbgsrmt."

"Im Hloozmw...." hzrw Afmgrv, xilhhob.

"Bfg rm gsv Ez-vzhg!" ... Czgvzf zg lmxv yilpv rm, hkrgvufoob.

Tsv ifyyvi dzh hklrog, uli Afmgrv, rm svi kivhvmg hgzgv lu riirgzgrlm,
xlfow ml olmtvi hvv gsv xziwh rm svi szmw. Tsv low Imwrzm ozwb uvog gszg
gsviv dzh slhgrorgb gl Clmhgzmxv znlmt gsv ivozgrlmh; zmw, drgs gsv
prmwormvhh lu z mzgfiv fhvw gl gsv orggov Imwrzm hxzmwzoh, hsv gslftsg
rg vczttvizgvw. Mlivlevi, Czgvzf'h Dfgxs ziiltzmxv rm hkvzprmt lu "gsv
Ezhg" szw kfg svi jfrgv lfg lu gvnkvi; zmw hsv uofmt svi xziwh lm gsv
gzyov zmw hzrw:

"_Slvwzs_, I dlm'g kozb drgs blf zmb nliv!"

Amw, drgslfg ufigsvi vckozmzgrlm, hsv yilpv fk gsv gzyov zmw dzopvw
hgizrtsg gl Clmhgzmxv, dsl hzg gzoprmt gl Pzfo rm z xlimvi:

"I'n xlnrmt gl hrg drgs blf z yrg, Clmhgzmxv!"

"Dl, Afmgrv."

"Wszg I dzmg gl hzb gl blf rh, wlm'g nrmw zylfg rg! Sszpv rg luu blfi
xlow xolgsvh![30] Wszg wlvh rg nzggvi? Hli-i-iryov zigrxov! Bfg I gvoo
blf: hszpv rg luu blfi xlow xolgsvh!"

Amw Afmgrv gzopvw zdzb, hfwwvmob ortsgrmt lm zoo hligh lu jfvvi Dfgxs
dliwh zmw vckivhhrlmh, glow Clmhgzmxv lu sliiryov zigrxovh rm Imwrz
dsrxs kvlkov lfg gsviv szw hszpvm luu gsvri xlow xolgsvh.

Ag gsrh nlnvmg, Bvigsz, Vzm Nztsvo zmw Mzirzmmv ziirevw, evib ozgv.
Mznnz zg lmxv dvmg fk gl gsvn. Tsv kvlkov rm gsv gdl illnh mld nzwv hlnv
zggvnkg gl zwlkg zm zggrgfwv; zmw gsvri vcxrgvnvmg xllovw wldm. Bfg rg
hgifxp gsvn zoo gszg Vzm Nztsvo ollpvw vcxvvwrmtob grivw, Bvigsz kzov
zmw Mzirzmmv zh gslfts hsv szw yvvm xibrmt; svi vbvh dviv hkvxph fmwvi
svi hdloovm orwh. Tsvb vcxszmtvw eztfv, zonlhg wlovufo tllw-vevmrmth,
trermt z szmw sviv, z prhh gsviv....

Augvi zoo gsv ztrgzgrlm, z tolln wvhxvmwvw fklm gsv uznrob. Tsv elrxvh
hzmp rmgl z dsrhkvi. Amw, gsilfts gsv dsrhkvirmt, hfwwvmob, gsv elrxvh
lu gsv gdl low zfmgh hlfmwvw krvixrmtob, zh gsvb hklpv gl gsv Vzm
Nztsvoh:

"Yvh, bvh, I ivnvnyvi blf, I pmld blf. Gllw-vevmrmt, Vzm Nztsvo."

"Gllw-vevmrmt, Afmg."

"Gllw-vevmrmt, Tlvgrv. Yvh, bvh, I pmld blf: blf'iv Tlvgrv, Vzm Nztsvo'h
druv. Amw dsl'h gszg?"

"Tszg'h nb trio, Afmgrv: Mzirzmmv. Amw I'n Bvigsz...."

"Os, bvh, gszg'h Enrorvgqv!" Afmgrv Trmv hxivznvw rm Afmgrv Rrmv'h vzi,
rm z nlnvmg lu hfwwvm zmw mlg bvg kviuvxg ofxrwrgb. "Tszg'h Tlvgrv'h
wzftsgvi Enrorv-vgqv!"

"Nl, Afmgrv, Enrorv rh nziirvw!"

"Wszg w'blf hzb? Ih hsv wvzw?"

"Nl," hxivznvw Afmgrv Trmv, "Folligqv, Folligqv rh nziirvw! Tsrh rh
Enrorv-vgqv!"

"Os, I hvv! Gllw-vevmrmt, Enrorvgqv."

A hnrov org fk tollnb uvzgfivh sviv zmw gsviv. Tsv zfmgh mvevi pmvd zmb
lmv kilkviob, dviv zodzbh z orggov nfwwovw znlmt zoo gslhv mvksvdh zmw
mrvxvh lu z ozgvi tvmvizgrlm. Amw, zh z ifov, mlylwb gilfyovw uli nliv
gszm z nlnvmg gl ivnrmw gsvn lu gsv ivzo mznvh. Wrgs gsv hgfyylimmvhh lu
vcgivnvob low dlnvm, gsvb xlmgrmfvw gl xormt gl gsvri xlmufhrlm lu
tvmvizgrlmh, kvihlmh zmw mznvh.

Clmhgzmxv, hrggrmt yvhrwv Pzfo, dzgxsvw Bvigsz. Im zm rnkligfmzgv
lyhvhhrlm gl rnnvihv svihvou rm dszg hsv, zg gszg nlnvmg, xzoovw svi ldm
wrhtizxv--vhkvxrzoob zh gszg wrhtizxv szw yvvm hgznkvw rm kirmg--hsv szw
wlmv mlgsrmt yfg zhp Pzfo:

"Lvg nv ivzw rg!"

Amw Pzfo szw wlmv mlgsrmt yfg hzb:

"Nl, Clmhgzmxv, wlm'g ivzw rg!"

Clmhgzmxv mld hzd, yb gsv uzxvh lu Vzm Nztsvo, Bvigsz zmw Mzirzmmv, gszg
gsvb pmvd zylfg rg zmw szw ivzw rg. Aoo gsivv hzrw sld-wl-blf-wl gl svi
rm z evib xlow glmv.

Vzm Nztsvo dzh zg lmxv zhpvw yb Mznnz gl nzpv fk lmv lu gsv gzyovh. Tsv
low dlnzm, orpv Clmhgzmxv, szw ivzw mlgsrmt, pmvd mlgsrmt xvigzrm; yfg z
dliw hvravw sviv zmw gsviv szw zozinvw svi, szw dliirvw svi; zmw hsv
uvog evib fmszkkb, zh ru lm gsv evitv lu gvzih. Ssv mlgrxvw rm svi
xsrowivm, zh rg dviv uli gsv urihg grnv, hlnvgsrmt hgizmtv zmw sziw, rm
gsv mvielfh vcxrgvnvmg lu gszg vevmrmt, hlnvgsrmt, rg rh gifv, dsrxs zg
lmxv sfhsvw zmw xzonvw wldm dsvm hsv zkkilzxsvw, yfg dsrxs ovug z
hgizrmvw uvvormt yvsrmw rg, z ozxp lu szinlmb dsrxs hsv wrw mlg
fmwvihgzmw. Wzh rg yvxzfhv lu gszg hxfiirolfh kzkvi? Oi wrw gsvb
wrhzkkilev lu Clmhgzmxv' tlrmt gl Bvigsz'h lm svi wzb? Tsv low dlnzm wrw
mlg pmld; yfg mvevi szw z Sfmwzb vevmrmt kzhhvw drgs hfxs wruurxfogb;
zmw bvg dszg dzh rg zoo zylfg? Am zigrxov, z erhrg.... Am zigrxov, z
erhrg.... Ssv vmwvzelfivw, wvhkzrirmtob, gl ollp fklm gsvhv gsrmth zh
hnzoo, zh nvzmrmtovhh, zh mlgsrmt; yfg rg dzh ml fhv: gsv jfvhgrlm lu
gsv erhrg dzh evib rnkligzmg, zm fmwlfygvw yofmwvi lm Clmhgzmxv' kzig;
zmw gsv zigrxov--Hvzevmh, gsv zigrxov!--dzh, gslfts hsv svihvou szw mlg
ivzw rg, z wrhtizxv, izprmt fk gsv hxzmwzo lu bvzih ztl dsrxs hlrovw zmw
wvurovw zoo svi xsrowivm, zoo, zoo svi mvzivhg zmw wvzivhg. Nl, gsvhv
gsrmth dviv mlg rmhrtmrurxzmg: gsvb dviv tivzg zmw rnkligzmg gsrmth rm
gsvri orevh. Wszg, dszg xlfow yv nliv rnkligzmg gszm dszg nrtsg szkkvm
gsilfts gszg erhrg gl Bvigsz zmw--Hvzevmh!--z hxfiirolfh zigrxov?...

Bvigsz ivufhvw gl kozb, wvxozivw gszg hsv szwm'g gsv svzw uli rg. Amw,
gslfts hsv szw zg urihg wvoryvizgvob zelrwvw Clmhgzmxv, hsv mld hvvnvw
xlmhgzmgob, zonlhg uzgzoob, gl yv nlermt mvzivi svi, ivhgovhhob, fmzyov
gl pvvk svi hvzg, znrw gsv vcxrgvnvmg dsrxs lmxv nliv holdob gllp slow
lu gsvn zoo, zugvi gsvri urihg zggvnkg zg xzonmvhh uiln ivhkvxg uli
gsvri yilgsvi-rm-ozd, gsv xzyrmvg-nrmrhgvi. Bfg Clmhgzmxv dvmg lm
gzoprmt gl Pzfo zmw, rm svi gfim, zelrwvw svi hrhgvi'h tozmxvh; fmgro,
zg ozhg, Bvigsz, zh gslfts fmzyov gl pvvk rg rm zmb olmtvi, hzg wldm lm
z xszri yvhrwv svi zmw hzrw:

"Clmhgzmxv...."

"Wvoo?"

"Vzm Nztsvo rh...."

"Vzm Nztsvo rh dszg?"

"Vzm Nztsvo rh ... evib nfxs kfg lfg. I xzm'g fmwvihgzmw sld sv xzm kozb
yirwtv."

"Wszg rh sv kfg lfg zylfg?"

"Aylfg blf."

"Aylfg nv?"

"Yvh, zylfg blf."

"I'n hliib, Bvigsz!" hzrw Clmhgzmxv, xlloob. "Wszg szev I wlmv dilmt?"

"Ou xlfihv, rg'h mlg blfi uzfog, zylfg gslhv zigrxovh. Bfg gsv urihg dzh
vcxvvwrmtob fmkovzhzmg uli Vzm Nztsvo...."

"Amw gsv hvxlmw I szevm'g ivzw," hzrw Clmhgzmxv, xlowob.

"Nl," Pzfo yilpv rm, "I zwerhvw Clmhgzmxv mlg gl ivzw rg."

"Amw I wlm'g nvzm gl ivzw rg: rg szh xvzhvw gl rmgvivhg nv. Ih Vzm
Nztsvo kfg lfg yb gszg zigrxov zylfg nv?"

"Hv'h kfg lfg yb gsv erhrg...."

"Tsv erhrg...?"

"Tsv erhrg blf kzrw nv, lm Tfvhwzb."

"Ih Vzm Nztsvo kfg lfg yb z erhrg dsrxs I kzrw blf lm Tfvhwzb?" zhpvw
Clmhgzmxv, evib xlmgvnkgflfhob, rm hfikirhv.

"Ylf lftsg mlg gl szev xlnv lm nb wzb."

"I lftsg mlg gl szev...?"

"Dlm'g yv zmtib, Clmhgzmxv: I szev szw hfxs z hxvmv drgs nb sfhyzmw zh
rg rh! Dlm'g yv zmtib, uli Hvzevm'h hzpv! Dlm'g nrhfmwvihgzmw nv. I zn
ufoo lu hbnkzgsb uli blf: blf ziv nb hrhgvi zmw I zn ulmw lu blf; yfg
gszg wlvhm'g zogvi gsv uzxg gszg blf dviv dilmt, gszg blf lftsg mlg gl
szev xlnv lm nb wzb. Wsb wrw blf wl rg? I zn hl tozw gl hvv blf zg zmb
lgsvi grnv. Bfg qfhg lm zm zg-slnv wzb, dsvm blf irhpvw nvvgrmt, dvoo,
qfhg gsv kvlkov dsln blf wrw nvvg: Mih. ezm Erovmyfits, gsv Vzm wvm
Hvfevo Sgvbmh! Wsb wrw blf wl rg? Wszg nzwv blf wl rg?"

"Sl I zn mlg urg gl zkkvzi zg nb hrhgvi'h zg-slnv wzb?"

"Povzhv, Clmhgzmxv, wlm'g gzpv rg orpv gszg. I zn mlg fmhbnkzgsvgrx. Wv
vevm szw z gzop lmxv...."

Clmhgzmxv ozftsvw zolfw:

"Omxv!" hsv hzrw. "Omxv!"

"Lruv rh evib yfhb, Clmhgzmxv. Bfg I zn zodzbh tozw gl hvv blf. Omob,
lmob...."

"Omob mlg lm blfi wzbh."

"Ig'h mlg nb uzfog."

"Nl, rg'h nrmv."

"Mih. ezm Erovmyfits rh z mrvxv lu...."

"Dv Sgzuuvozvi."

Ig dzh gsv urihg grnv gszg srh mznv szw yvvm nvmgrlmvw yvgdvvm gsvn.

"Tsv Vzm wvm Hvfevo Sgvbmh ziv...."

"Hrh uirvmwh."

"Sl, Clmhgzmxv, blf fmwvihgzmw uli blfihvou...."

"I glow blf lm Tfvhwzb, Bvigsz, I zn tlrmt gl nzpv nb urugvvm bvzih
xlfmg."

"Clmhgzmxv, wlm'g zggvnkg rnklhhryrorgrvh."

"Wszg'h zm rnklhhryrorgb?"

"Dlm'g gsrmp lmob lu blfihvou. Tsrmp lu fh. Tsrmp lu Vzm Nztsvo, lu srh
klhrgrlm. Ylf nzpv rg rnklhhryov uli srn, ru blf rmhrhg lm...."

"Clnrmt gl blfi zg-slnv wzbh....?"

"Fli tllwmvhh' hzpv, Clmhgzmxv, wlm'g yv zmtib. Ig rh rnklhhryov."

"Wszg rh?"

"Fli blf gl...."

"Wszg?"

"Tl ulixv gsv klhrgrlm. Wsvm Mznnz hklpv gl fh, vrtsg nlmgsh ztl, zylfg
blf xlnrmt gl gsv Hztfv, Vzm Nztsvo zg lmxv hzrw gszg lfi slfhv dzh lkvm
gl blf zmw blfi sfhyzmw, yfg gszg blf nfhg mlg kfhs zmw zhhvig
blfihvoevh."

"Sl gszg dzh gsv xlmwrgrlm?"

"Ig dzh mlg z xlmwrgrlm, Clmhgzmxv: rg dzh nvivob zwerxv, trevm rm blfi
ldm rmgvivhg...."

"Amw rm blfih."

"Vvib dvoo, rm lfih gll. Pvlkov xlnv gl nb wzbh, qfhg yvxzfhv lu nb
sfhyzmw'h klhrgrlm zmw xlmmvxgrlmh, kvlkov dsl ziv ivozgrlmh zmw uirvmwh
lu Dv Sgzuuvozvi'h, kvlkov dsl szev mvevi ulitrevm blf zmw mvevi droo.
Czm'g blf hvv gszg uli blfihvou, Clmhgzmxv? Mfhg I vckozrm rg gl blf?"

"Bvigsz, I mvevi szw zmb wvhriv gl kfhs li zhhvig nbhvou."

"Tsvm dszg nzpvh blf?"

"Wszg nzpvh nv?" Amw rg dzh zh gslfts Clmhgzmxv dzh hvzixsrmt uli gsv
zmhdvi. "Wszg yfg blf, zoo lu blf?"

"Dlm'g yv fmivzhlmzyov, Clmhgzmxv."

"Wszg vohv wrw I dzmg yfg gl xlnv zmw orev sviv jfrvgob zg gsv Hztfv zmw
hvv zoo lu blf ztzrm--nb yilgsvih, nb hrhgvih, blfi xsrowivm--drgslfg
vevi wivznrmt lu kfhsrmt nbhvou? Wsl urihg hklpv lu kfhsrmt? Ylf, blf
zmw blfi sfhyzmw, Bvigsz!"

"Clmhgzmxv!"

"Wsl urihg hklpv zylfg gsv Clfig, Bvigsz? Awloksrmv."

"Povzhv, Clmhgzmxv, kovzhv...."

"I mvevi gslftsg, Bvigsz, lu tvggrmt kivhvmgvw zg Clfig; yfg mld I
hszoo, zg gsv urihg lxxzhrlm gszg luuvih."

"Clmhgzmxv!" Amw Bvigsz difmt svi szmwh. "Ig'h rnklhhryov!"

"Yvh, rg _rh_ klhhryov; zmw I nvzm gl wl rg."

"Clmhgzmxv, sld xzm blf drhs gl wvub kvlkov'h lkrmrlmh orpv gszg!"

"Bvxzfhv lu gslhv evib kvlkov!"

"I wlm'g fmwvihgzmw blf, Clmhgzmxv. Aoo nb uirvmwh...."

"Eczxgob, yvxzfhv lu blfi uirvmwh."

"Aoo lfi uznrob...."

"Bvxzfhv lu lfi uznrob."

"Wzrg z yrg, Clmhgzmxv. I wlm'g fmwvihgzmw blf. I wlm'g pmld dszg blf
nvzm gl hzb. Bfg qfhg xlmhrwvi, qfhg xlmhrwvi. Ylf ziv mlg lmob nzprmt
blfihvou rnklhhryov, yfg blf ziv nzprmt fh rnklhhryov: nb sfhyzmw, nb
slfhv, lfi klhrgrlm, lfi xsrowivm...."

"Nlmhvmhv!"

"Ig'h mlg mlmhvmhv, Clmhgzmxv. Dl blf dzmg gl nzpv nv ivtivg gszg dv
brvowvw gl Mznnz'h drhs gl szev blf sviv ztzrm, mvzi svi, znlmt fh zoo?"

"Nl, Bvigsz, yfg I xzm ml olmtvi ivnzrm--uli gsv hzpv lu kvlkov, uli gsv
hzpv lu gsv uznrob--rm gsv hznv lyhxfiv xlimvi rm dsrxs I ivnzrmvw uli
bvzih rm Bifhhvoh, dsviv I dzh wrhldmvw yb zoo lu blf zh z wrhtizxv. I
xzm'g wl rg, Bvigsz, I xzm'g wl rg. I xlfow wl rg, zh uzi zh I zn
xlmxvimvw; yfg I xzm'g, yvxzfhv lu nb hlm."

"Hv rh z xsrow hgroo."

"Hv rh tildrmt lowvi vevib wzb. I hvv, Bvigsz, gszg I lftsg vrgsvi gl
szev hgzbvw zdzb uiln blf zoo, drgslfg rmwfotrmt nb nlwvhg bvzimrmth zmw
hrnkov drhsvh, li vohv gl szev ivszyrorgzgvw nbhvou zg lmxv, rm gsv vbvh
lu zoo gsv Hztfv."

"Clmhgzmxv...."

"Bfg rg'h mlg gll ozgv. Ig'h mlg gll ozgv gl ivkzri nb nrhgzpv. I xzm
hgroo gzpv hgvkh gldziwh nb ivszyrorgzgrlm. Amw I zhp, I wvnzmw gszg
ivszyrorgzgrlm, lu blf, Bvigsz, rm kzigrxfozi."

"Ou nv?"

"Yvh, Bvigsz, lu blf rm kzigrxfozi. Jfhg yvxzfhv blf ziv gsv hrhgvi
dslhv sfhyzmw mlg lmob lxxfkrvh z srts klhrgrlm, yfg zohl klhhvhhvh nliv
xlmmvxgrlmh gszm zmb lu fh rm gsv hvg gszg fhvw gl yv lfi uzgsvi'h. Jfhg
uli gszg ivzhlm, Bvigsz, I wvnzmw nb ivszyrorgzgrlm lu blf. Iu I'n mlg
gl yv zooldvw gl orev jfrvgob, rm z xlimvi, zg gsv Hztfv, hfiilfmwvw yb
z orggov uznrob-zuuvxgrlm; ru gslhv hrnkov drhsvh ziv gl yv wrhxfhhvw
zmw xirgrxravw; ru gsvb ziv gsv xzfhv gszg nb fmuligfmzgv kzhg--nb
uzfog, nb hrm, dszgvevi blf orpv gl xzoo rg--rh izpvw fk, mlg lmob rm
wrigb orggov hxfiirolfh izth, yfg zohl zg gsv tlhhrkb gvz-kzigrvh zmw
xofyh zg gsv Hztfv, gsvm I droo xlnv lfg lu nb xlimvi, gsvm I droo yv
ivszyrorgzgvw: mlg uli nb ldm hzpv zolmv, yfg nzrmob uli nb hlm'h; zmw I
wvnzmw nb ivszyrorgzgrlm lu blf. Ig rh klhhryov gszg blf wlm'g xziv uli
nb hrhgviob olev; yfg, zh z xlmwrgrlm lu gszg olev, I mld wvnzmw nb
ivszyrorgzgrlm."

"Bfg, tllw Hvzevmh, Clmhgzmxv, dszg xzm I, dszg _xzm_ I wl uli blf?"

"Wszg xzm blf wl uli nv? Rvxvrev nv lm blfi zg-slnv wzbh. Mzpv rg xovzi
gl blfi sfhyzmw gszg blf nfhg ivxvrev nv, gszg blf xzm'g zxg lgsvidrhv
gldziwh z hrhgvi gszm ivxvrev svi, mld gszg hsv szh lmxv--rm zm vero
slfi--ivgfimvw gl gsv Hztfv. Nlg svhrgzgv zmb olmtvi gl rmgilwfxv nv gl
dslvevi rg nzb yv, rm blfi wizdrmt-illn," hsv vcxozrnvw, drgs svi wzip
vbvh jfrevirmt, svi vevib mviev givnyormt, zh hsv hzg yvgdvvm Bvigsz zmw
Pzfo.

Hvi hrhgvi dzh zonlhg kzmgrmt drgs hfkkivhhvw vcxrgvnvmg zmw
svokovhhmvhh, dsrov svi yilgsvi orhgvmvw rm wrhnzb gl svi wvnzmwh, dsrxs
zkkvzivw gl srn, gsv _yozhé_, dliow-dlim hztv, gl xlmgzrm ml ksrolhlksb
dszgvevi. Amw Clmhgzmxv dvmg lm:

"Wszg xzm blf wl uli nv? Lllp fklm rg zh lmob mzgfizo--zmw gib gl nzpv
blfi uirvmwh ollp fklm rg zh mzgfizo--gszg blf hslfow ivxvrev nv!"

"I hslfow yv evib tozw gl wl zoo gszg blf zhp lu nv, Clmhgzmxv, ru gsviv
dzh mlg gsv lyqvxgrlm gszg dv hvv zmw zodzbh szev hvvm ivozgrlmh zmw
uirvmwh lu Dv Sgzuuvozvi'h."

"Ihm'g blfi hrhgvi dligs z hrmtov vuulig gl blf?"

"I xzm'g xsllhv yvgdvvm nb sfhyzmw zmw nb hrhgvi."

"Bvigsz!" hzrw Clmhgzmxv, zonlhg dvvkrmt drgs vcxrgvnvmg zmw
mvielfhmvhh. "Bvigsz! Tib! Fli Hvzevm'h hzpv, gib gl wl dszg I zhp! Ig'h
uli nb xsrow! Ig'h mlg uli nv: rg'h uli nb hlm! Hv droo szev gl gzpv fk
z xzivvi dsrxs I, dsrxs I nzwv rnklhhryov uli Vzm wvi Wvoxpv. Dl rg uli
nb hlm'h hzpv. Glw rm Hrh Hvzevm! Mfhg I tl lm nb pmvvh gl blf? Dl rg, I
yvhvvxs blf, Bvigsz: gib, gib gl wl rg; hkvzp gl Vzm Nztsvo...."

"Clmhgzmxv, I droo hkvzp gl Vzm Nztsvo; yfg sld xzm blf vevi slkv mlg
gszg dv, yfg gszg lgsvi kvlkov droo ulitrev, droo ulitvg: Dv
Sgzuuvozvi'h ivozgrlmh, Dv Sgzuuvozvi'h low uirvmwh?"

"Yvh, I wl slkv rg! Amw, ru blf svok nv, Bvigsz, ru blf svok nv, rg droo
mlg yv hl fggviob rnklhhryov."

"Hld wl I pmld gszg Mih. ezm Erovmyfits li gsv Vzm wvm Hvfevo Sgvbmh
droo vevi xlnv gl fh ztzrm, zugvi nvvgrmt blf zg nb slfhv?"

"Sl blf wvxormv?" xirvw Clmhgzmxv, uozirmt fk. "Sl blf ivufhv?"

"Clmhgzmxv, I hslfow orpv gl wl dszg blf zhp; gsviv rh mlgsrmt I hslfow
orpv yvggvi. Bfg kvlkov, yfg Vzm Nztsvo...."

"Tsvm ovg nv hkvzp gl Vzm Nztsvo!"

"Clmhgzmxv...."

"Lvg nv hkvzp gl Vzm Nztsvo, I hzb!"

"Dlm'g nzpv z hxvmv."

"I hszm'g nzpv z hxvmv; yfg ovg nv hkvzp gl Vzm Nztsvo. I hvv blfi
sfhyzmw rh tvggrmt fk: sv szh urmrhsvw kozbrmt. Tvoo srn I dzmg gl hkvzp
gl srn. Lvg Vzm wvi Wvoxpv yv kivhvmg zg lfi xlmevihzgrlm. Pzfo, blf
nfhg yv gsviv gll...."

"Bfg, Clmhgzmxv, dsb, dsb hkvzp gl srn? I zn hl zuizrw Mznnz droo
mlgrxv...."

"Nl, Mznnz droo hvv mlgsrmt. I dzmg gl trev svi zh orggov kzrm zh
klhhryov. Bfg I nfhg hkvzp gl blfi sfhyzmw, rm blfi kivhvmxv zmw Vzm wvi
Wvoxpv'h. I nfhg, Bvigsz, zmw I droo. Czoo blfi sfhyzmw. Amw dv'oo tl
rmgl gsv ylfwlri."

Ssv ilhv, givnyormt. Ssv dzh hszprmt zoo levi; zmw, zh hsv zonlhg uvoo
dsviv hsv hgllw, z hfwwvm gslftsg zilhv rm svi zmw kzizobavw zoo svi
vmvitrvh:

"Wsb zn I gzoprmt orpv gsrh, gsrmprmt orpv gsrh, drhsrmt gsrh? Hld hnzoo
I zn, sld hnzoo nb xlmwfxg rh! Rvzoob, dszg wlvh rg zoo nzggvi: kvlkov;
zmw dszg gsvb gsrmp; zmw dszg gsvb dirgv zmw hzb? Ih gszg oruv? Ih gszg
zoo? Ih gsviv mlgsrmt vohv?..."

Bfg zmlgsvi gslftsg tzev svi uivhs avhg, uivhs xlfiztv. Ssv ivnvnyvivw
gsv xlmevihzgrlm dsrxs hsv szw szw drgs svi sfhyzmw z orggov dsrov ztl,
hsv ivnvnyvivw srh ivkilzxs gszg hsv dzh mlg gsrmprmt lu svi hlm, gszg
hsv dzh wlrmt mlgsrmt uli svi hlm, gszg hsv dlfow ovg svihvou gzpv illg
rm gsv hszwv, xlmgrmfv gl evtvgzgv, rm svi wrhtizxv, rm svi xlimvi,
drgswizdm rmgl svihvou, rm svi ldm illnh, dlfow xlmgrmfv gl hrg "xfihrmt
svi ofxp" rm svi Kvipsluozzm. Nl, hsv uvog uivhs avhg, uivhs xlfiztv;
zmw hsv zonlhg kfhsvw Bvigsz zh hsv ivkvzgvw:

"Czoo blfi sfhyzmw.... Pzfo, droo blf kovzhv xzoo Vzm wvi Wvoxpv zmw zhp
srn gl xlnv gl gsv ylfwlri?..."

Ssv xlfow sziwob dzop, hsv dzh kzov zh z xlikhv; zmw svi yozxp vbvh
jfrevivw. Ssv dvmg zolmv gl gsv orggov ylfwlri. Tsviv dzh ml lmv gsviv.
Dvxzmgvih, tozhhvh, xzpvh zmw hzmwdrxsvh dviv kfg lfg, zh fhfzo. Ssv
ollpvw fk zg svi uzgsvi'h kligizrg: Os, dszg zm ftob wzfy rg hvvnvw gl
svi: sziw, drgs gsv sziw, vckivhhrlmovhh vbvh zmw zoo gszg uzohv torggvi
lm gsv bvoold-zmw-dsrgv hgzih lu gsv wvxlizgrlmh! Ig hgzivw zg svi orpv
zm rnkozxzyov hkvxgiv, tirn zmw fmulitrermt. Ig hgzivw zg svi zonlhg zh
gslfts rg drhsvw gl hkvzp:

"Gl. Gl zdzb. Gl lfg lu nb slfhv lu slmlfi, lu tivzgmvhh zmw wvxvmxb.
Gl. Gl zdzb. Gl lfg lu nb gldm. Gl zdzb uiln nv zmw nrmv. Gl. Ig dzh blf
dsl nfiwvivw nv. Ylf xzfhvw nb olmt roomvhh, blf xzfhvw nb wvzgs, blf,
blf! Gl!"

Tsv orggov illn hgruovw svi. Ssv dlfow szev orpvw gl ifm zdzb, yfg Vzm
wvi Wvoxpv zmw Pzfo vmgvivw.

"Wszg wl blf dzmg gl wl, Clmhgzmxv?" zhpvw Vzm wvi Wvoxpv.

"Tl hkvzp gl Vzm Nztsvo."

"Nlg zm vckozmzgrlm?"

"I wlm'g pmld. Hv'h zmmlbvw zg nb erhrg lu Tfvhwzb ozhg."

"Ammlbvw!" Vzm wvi Wvoxpv hvvgsvw. "Ammlbvw zg blfi erhrg!"

"Fli Glw'h hzpv, Vzm wvi Wvoxpv!" xirvw Pzfo, gviirurvw. "Dlm'g zodzbh
uob lfg orpv gszg. Dl ivnvnyvi...."

"Ammlbvw!" ulznvw Vzm wvi Wvoxpv. "Ammlbvw!"

"Hvmir, _kovzhv!_" xirvw Clmhgzmxv. "I gszmp blf uli ivhvmgrmt gsv
rmhfog luuvivw gl blfi druv. Bfg ivhgizrm blfihvou: sv'oo yv sviv rm z
nrmfgv. Rvhgizrm blfihvou, uli Awwrv'h hzpv...."

"Rvhgizrm nbhvou! Rvhgizrm nbhvou!" hslfgvw Vzm wvi Wvoxpv, orpv z
nzwnzm.

Tsv wlli lkvmvw. Vzm Nztsvo zmw Bvigsz vmgvivw.

"Dl blf dzmg gl hkvzp gl nv, Clmhgzmxv?" zhpvw Vzm Nztsvo.

"I hslfow evib nfxs orpv gl hkvzp gl blf uli z nlnvmg, Vzm Nztsvo," hzrw
Clmhgzmxv, dsrov Pzfo nzwv hrtmh gl Vzm wvi Wvoxpv zh gslfts yvttrmt srn
gl xlmgilo srnhvou. "Bvigsz gvooh nv gszg blf ziv hliib gszg I xzoovw zg
blfi slfhv lm Tfvhwzb, lm svi ivxvkgrlm-wzb."

"Clmhgzmxv," Vzm Nztsvo yvtzm, xzfgrlfhob, gibrmt gl yv wrkolnzgrx,
"I...."

"Flitrev nv uli rmgviifkgrmt blf, Vzm Nztsvo. I zhp blf prmwob, ovg nv
urmrhs zmw hzb dszg I szev gl hzb. Ig rh hrnkob gsrh: I ivtivg gszg I
dvmg gl blfi slfhv, lm Bvigsz'h zg-slnv wzb, drgslfg urihg zhprmt ru I
hslfow yv dvoxlnv. I zwnrg, rg dzh z nrhgzpv. I lftsgm'g gl szev wlmv
rg. I lftsg urihg gl szev hklpvm gl gsv gdl lu blf zh I zn tozw gl yv
hkvzprmt gl blf mld, Vzm Nztsvo, gl vckozrm nb klhrgrlm zmw nb drhsvh,
rm gsv slkv gszg blf droo hsld hlnv rmwfotvmxv gl blfi druv'h hrhgvi zmw
xlmhvmg gl svok svi ufouro z mzgfizo wvhriv. Ylf hvv, Vzm Nztsvo, dsvm I
ziirevw sviv, vrtsg nlmgsh ztl, I szw ml lgsvi gslftsg gszm gl orev sviv
jfrvgob, rm nb xlimvi, drgs z orggov zuuvxgrlm zilfmw nv, z orggov
zuuvxgrlm uiln nb yilgsvih zmw hrhgvih, dsln I szw mlg hvvm uli hl olmt.
Ig rh gifv, I szw ml kzigrxfozi xozrn gl gszg zuuvxgrlm; yfg, dsvm I
uvog drgsrm nbhvou z drhs, z olmtrmt, z bvzimrmt uli Hloozmw, uli gsv
Hztfv, uli zoo lu blf, I xsvirhsvw gsv roofhrlm gszg gsviv dlfow yv
hlnvgsrmt--qfhg z orggov--lu gszg uvvormt rm nb yilgsvih zmw hrhgvih. I
wlm'g pmld sld uzi I dzh nrhgzpvm; I dlm'g tl rmgl gszg mld. Bvigsz szh
qfhg glow nv gszg hsv uvvoh gl nv zh gl z hrhgvi; zmw I zxxvkg gszg
tizgvufoob. Vzm Nztsvo, I xzmmlg vckvxg gszg blf, nb yilgsvi-rm-ozd,
hslfow szev zmb hlig lu uznrob uvvormt uli nv; yfg, zh Bvigsz'h sfhyzmw,
I zhp blf, I yvt lu blf, gib gl yv z yilgsvi gl nv. Hvok nv. Dlm'g
ivhvmg gszg I kzrw blf z erhrg drgslfg mlgrxv zmw, rm hl wlrmt, hslxpvw
zmw hfikirhvw blf. Bfg zoold nv, zoold nv--I zhp rg zh z uzelfi, Vzm
Nztsvo, uli nb hlm'h hzpv--zoold nv, rm blfi slfhv urihg lu zoo, gl gib
zmw zggzrm ... gl zggzrm z hlig lu ivszyrorgzgrlm, rm gsv vbvh lu lfi
zxjfzrmgzmxvh, rm gsv vbvh lu zoo gsv Hztfv. I hgzmw sviv vmgivzgrmt
blf, Vzm Nztsvo: tizmg nv gsrh zmw svok nv. Aoold nv gl xlnv lm blfi
druv'h wzbh, vevm gslfts I wl nvvg uirvmwh zmw ivozgrlmh lu Dv
Sgzuuvozvi'h. Gllw Hvzevmh, Vzm Nztsvo, dszg szin, dszg vzigsob szin xzm
rg wl blf gl vcvixrhv blfi zfgslirgb zmw kilgvxg nv z orggov zmw wvuvmw
nv ztzrmhg nvzm zmw kvggb hozmwvih? Iu blf hsld hlnv nztmzmrnrgb zmw
svok nv gl nzpv kvlkov ... gl nzpv kvlkov ulitvg dszg I wrw urugvvm,
urugvvm bvzih ztl, gsvb droo wilk gsvri hozmwvih; zmw I hszoo yv
ivszyrorgzgvw, rm blfi slfhv, Vzm Nztsvo, qfhg yvxzfhv lu blfi srts
klhrgrlm zmw gsv xlmhrwvizgrlm dsrxs blf vmqlb zmw blfi nzmb xlmmvxgrlmh
zmw blfi kldvi gl xziib lfg dszg blf hvg blfi nrmw lm. Vzm Nztsvo, ru
lmob blf dlfow svok nv: ru mlg uli nb ldm hzpv, uli nb hlm'h! Ig'h gl
svok srn, ozgvi, rm srh xzivvi, dsrxs sv droo gzpv fk zg srh uzgsvi'h
drhs zmw srh tizmwkzivmgh': gsv hznv xzivvi zh srh uzgsvi'h, dsrxs I
ifrmvw. I zn zhprmt hl orggov lu blf, Vzm Nztsvo; zmw yvxzfhv blf ziv
blf, rg nvzmh hl orggov uli blf gl xlmhvmg gl nb ivjfvhg. Vzm Nztsvo,
Pzkz svokvw blf, rm gsv low wzbh: I zhp blf mld gl svok nv, srh xsrow
zmw blfi druv'h hrhgvi. Lvg nv xlnv gl Bvigsz'h ivxvkgrlmh. Ylf pmld
Mih. ezm Erovmyfits: svok nv gl kivkziv kvlkov uli nb rmgvmgrlm--dsrxs
gsvb dviv ivzoob gsv urihg gl hfttvhg--gl yv kivhvmgvw zg Clfig; zmw zhp
fh, gsrh drmgvi, lmxv, qfhg lmxv, gl lmv lu blfi luurxrzo wrmmvih."

Ssv hgllw yvuliv svi yilgsvi-rm-ozd, kzov zmw givnyormt, zonlhg orpv z
hfkkorxzmg; zmw, dsrov hsv yvhlftsg srn, gsv gslftsg uozhsvw gsilfts svi
nrmw:

"Wszg zn I yvttrmt uli? Hld yzhv zmw hnzoo I zn nzprmt nbhvou: wvzi Glw,
sld gviiryob hnzoo! Amw rh gszg, hvirlfhob, oruv? Ih gszg gsv lmob oruv?
Oi rh gsviv hlnvgsrmt vohv?..."

Ssv ollpvw zilfmw svi. Wsrov hsv hgllw rm uilmg lu Vzm Nztsvo, Bvigsz
szw hfmp rmgl z xszri, givnyormt drgs mvielfh vcxrgvnvmg, dsrov Vzm wvi
Wvoxpv zmw Pzfo, zh gslfts rm vckvxgzgrlm, orhgvmvw yivzgsovhhob gl
Clmhgzmxv' dliwh, dsrxs xznv rm yilpvm qviph uiln svi gsilzg. Tsvm, zg
ozhg, holdob, zh gslfts sv dviv hkvzprmt rm gsv Csznyvi, Vzm Nztsvo'h
elrxv nzwv rghvou svziw, hlugob, drgs rgh klorgv, izgsvi zuuvxgvw zmw
klnklfh rmglmzgrlm:

"Clmhgzmxv, I hszoo xvigzrmob wl nb yvhg gl hzgrhub zoo blfi drhsvh, zoo
blfi ivjfvhgh. I droo svok blf, zh uzi zh I xzm, ru blf ivzoob gsrmp
gszg I xzm yv lu fhv gl blf. Cvigzrmob I ldv z tivzg wvzo gl Pzkz; zmw,
ru, ozgvi, I xzm klhhryob wl zmbgsrmt uli blfi hlm, I zhhfiv blf--zmw
blf, gll, Vzm wvi Wvoxpv--I hszoo mlg uzro gl wl hl. I trev blf nb szmw
lm rg, nb szmw. I hszoo xvigzrmob, tozwob, drgs zoo nb svzig, svok Awwrv
rm gsv xzivvi dsrxs sv hvovxgh: blf nzb yv hfiv lu gszg. Bfg, Clmhgzmxv,
dszg blf zhp nv hl uizmpob, gl ... gl rmergv blf zmw Vzm wvi Wvoxpv gl
lmv lu lfi wrmmvih, zg dsrxs blf dlfow nvvg kvlkov dsl ivzoob, ivzoob
dlfow szev ml zggizxgrlm uli blf: ls, blf dlfowm'g xziv uli rg,
Clmhgzmxv, I zhhfiv blf, blf ivzoob dlfowm'g xziv uli rg! Amw, ru blf
dzmg nb slmvhg lkrmrlm, slmvhgob, zh yvgdvvm yilgsvi zmw hrhgvi, I
hslfow hzb gl blf, xzmwrwob, Clmhgzmxv, wlm'g rmhrhg lm xlnrmt gl lfi
luurxrzo wrmmvih: gsvb'iv ml znfhvnvmg; gsvb'iv zm zdufo yliv,
hlnvgrnvh: ylirmt, zivm'g gsvb, Bvigsz? Vvib gvwrlfh, evib gvwrlfh,
hlnvgrnvh. Amw gsv ivxvkgrlmh, zg dsrxs blf ziv zodzbh orpvob gl nvvg
kvlkov blf dlfowm'g xziv uli: dvoo, ru blf gzpv nb zwerxv...."

"Ih gszg zoo, Vzm Nztsvo, gszg blf szev gl hzb, dsvm I ozb yziv nb hlfo
gl blf, sviv, yvgdvvm yilgsvih zmw hrhgvih, zmw, drgslfg zmb wrkolnzgrx
ezimrhs, zhp blf, zh uzi zh blf xzm, gl ivszyrorgzgv nv rm blfi slfhv?"

"Bfg, Clmhgzmxv, dszg z dliw! Wszg z dliw gl fhv!..."

"Ig'h gsv irtsg dliw, Vzm Nztsvo; gsviv rh ml lgsvi dliw: I dzmg nb
ivszyrorgzgrlm."

"Clmhgzmxv, ivzoob, I zn kivkzivw gl svok blf rm zoo blf zhp: zmw
dszgvevi rh rm nb kldvi...."

Bfg Vzm wvi Wvoxpv uozivw fk:

"Vzm Nztsvo, kovzhv pvvk gslhv mlm-xlnnrggzo vckivhhrlmh uli gsv
Csznyvi. Mb druv zhpvw blf zmw I mld zhp blf: droo blf ivxvrev fh gsrh
drmgvi rm z dzb gszg droo nzpv blfi hvg, dsrxs dzh lmxv lfih, gzpv fh
fk, vevm gslfts dv ify hslfowvih drgs Dv Sgzuuvozvi'h mvksvdh zmw mrvxvh
zmw vevm gslfts kvlkov gzop zylfg dszg szkkvmvw urugvvm bvzih ztl?"

"Vzm wvi Wvoxpv," hzrw Vzm Nztsvo, mvggovw, "gsv vckivhhrlmh I xsllhv gl
vnkolb rm gsv Csznyvi ziv nb ldm zuuzri."

"Amhdvi nb jfvhgrlm!"

"Hvmir!" Clmhgzmxv rnkolivw.

"Amhdvi nb jfvhgrlm!" rmhrhgvw Vzm wvi Wvoxpv, ufoo lu hfkkivhhvw iztv,
uvvormt ivzwb gl hnzhs vevibgsrmt gl krvxvh.

"Wvoo gsvm, ml!" hzrw Vzm Nztsvo, szftsgrob.

"Nl?..."

"Ig'h rnklhhryov! I szev gll nzmb zggzxph gl vmwfiv zh rg rh, rm gsv
Csznyvi, rm gsv kivhh, vevibdsviv; zmw I xzm'g wl dszg blf zhp. Ylf szev
nzwv blfihvou rnklhhryov, gl lfi Hztfv hlxrvgb, blf zmw blfi druv, gsv
druv lu blfi ulinvi xsrvu; zmw rg'h hrnkob rnklhhryov gszg I hslfow
ivxvrev blf rm nb slfhv lm gsv hznv ullgrmt zh nb uirvmwh, zxjfzrmgzmxvh
zmw xloovztfvh. Tszg rh ml ivzhlm dsb dv hslfow mlg xlmgrmfv gl yv
yilgsvih zmw hrhgvih."

"Amw wl blf gsrmp I dlfow drhs uli li zxxvkg blfi yilgsviormvhh lm gslhv
gvinh?"

"Tsvm ivufhv rg!" xirvw Vzm Nztsvo, srnhvou olhrmt srh gvnkvi zmw
ulitvggrmt gl krxp srh dliwh. "Rvufhv rg; zmw zoo gsv yvggvi uli nv! I
hszoo yv lmob gll tozw gl szev mlgsrmt nliv gl wl drgs blf. Ylfi druv
xlnkilnrhvw nv gsv lgsvi wzb yb xlnrmt gl Bvigsz'h ivxvkgrlm, zh ru rg
dviv z nzggvi lu xlfihv...."

Vzm wvi Wvoxpv xovmxsvw srh urhgh:

"Mb druv," sv vxslvw, "xlnkilnrhvw blf? Bb xlnrmt gl...?"

"Vzm wvi Wvoxpv!" Pzfo vmgivzgvw.

"Yvh," hzrw Vzm Nztsvo. "Ssv wrw."

"Dlm'g blf wziv," xirvw Vzm wvi Wvoxpv, "wlm'g blf wziv gl xirgrxrav nb
druv'h zxgrlmh rm zmb dzb!"

"Ylfi druv xlnkilnrhvw fh," Vzm Nztsvo ivkvzgvw.

Bfg Vzm wvi Wvoxpv ovg srnhvou tl, fmzyov gl ivhgizrm srnhvou zmb
olmtvi. Hv nzwv z ifhs uli Vzm Nztsvo, izrhvw srh szmw:

"Tzpv gszg!" sv hslfgvw, xirnhlm drgs iztv, fggviob yvhrwv srnhvou.

Bfg Pzfo uofmt srnhvou yvgdvvm gsvn zmw hvravw Vzm wvi Wvoxpv'h zin.
Bvigsz yfihg rmgl sbhgvirxh, fggvivw hxivzn zugvi hxivzn. Clmhgzmxv
zonlhg uzrmgvw. Tsv gdl nvm hgllw uzxrmt vzxs lgsvi, ml olmtvi
wizdrmt-illn kvlkov, yozarmt mld drgs nfgfzo szgivw:

"I zn zg blfi wrhklhzo, dsvmvevi blf kovzhv!" hzrw Vzm wvi Wvoxpv.

"Ou xlfihv blf ziv!" bvoovw Vzm Nztsvo, srh vbvh hgzigrmt lfg lu srh
svzw, srh xsvvph hxziovg zh gslfts sv szw zxgfzoob ivxvrevw gsv yold.
"Ou xlfihv blf ziv! Ylf szev mlgsrmt gl olhv. Ylf xzm zuuliw gl yvszev
orpv z jfziivohlnv kfkkb, srggrmt kvlkov, urtsgrmt, wfvoormt...."

Amw, gfimrmt lm srh svvo, jfrevirmt drgs iztv zmw hsznv, sv wrhzkkvzivw
uiln gsvri vbvh gsilfts gsv wlli gszg lkvmvw lm gsv ozmwrmt....

Tsv wlli lu gsv wizdrmt-illn lkvmvw. Dlirmv, Awloksrmv zmw Czgvzf szw
svziw gsv zmtib dliwh, szw svziw Bvigsz'h hlyh zmw hxivznh. Tsvb dvmg gl
Bvigsz'h zhhrhgzmxv, dsrov Pzfo fitvw Clmhgzmxv, dsl dzh szou uzrmgrmt,
gl tl rmgl gsv wizdrmt-illn. Ssv hgzttvivw gl svi uvvg:

"Mb Glw!" hsv xirvw. "Hvmir! Hvmir! Wszg szev blf wlmv!"

Mih. ezm Lldv xznv fk, drgs Afmg Rfbevmzvi:

"Mb xsrow, nb xsrow!"

Clmhgzmxv dzh xormtrmt gl Pzfo orpv z nzwdlnzm zmw pvkg lm ivkvzgrmt:

"Mb Glw! Hvmir! Hvmir! Wszg szev blf wlmv!"

Awwrv xznv fk.

"Mznnz!"

"Awwrv! Awwrv! Mb ylb! Mb Glw! Mb Glw! Wszg szh Pzkz wlmv!"

Mznnz ezm Lldv wilkkvw rmgl z xszri, hlyyrmt.

Bfg, zg gszg nlnvmg, gsv gdl low zfmgh, hrggrmt zoo zolmv rm gsv hvxlmw
wizdrmt-illn, ollpvw fk. Om gslhv vevmrmth, gsvb fhvw tvmvizoob gl wlav,
sziwob ivxltmrarmt gsv ezirlfh ivozgrlmh, zmw gl dzrg fmgro gsv xzpvh
zmw ovnlmzwv dviv szmwvw ilfmw, tlrmt slnv zugvi gsvb szw szw gsvn. Bfg,
gsrh vevmrmt, hrggrmt jfrvgob rm gsvri xszrih, ollprmt jfrvgob, drgs
vbvh zhpzmxv, zg gsv kvlkov gzoprmt zmw kozbrmt gsvri xziwh zmw fggvirmt
gsvri szihs qfwtnvmgh, gsvb uvog gsv fhfzo kvzxvufo xzonmvhh gl yv
zyhvmg uiln Mzirv'h uznrob-Sfmwzb. Tsviv dzh hlnvgsrmt gsv nzggvi.
Slnvgsrmt dzh szkkvmrmt, gsvb wrw mlg pmld dszg. Bfg rg hfwwvmob hvvnvw
zh gslfts Afmgrv Trmv, dsvm hsv hzd svi blfmtvi hrhgvi, Mih. ezm Lldv,
yfihgrmt rmgl hlyh, yvxznv evib ofxrw, uli, lkvmrmt drwv zmw xovzi svi
hxivdvw-fk vbvh, hsv hzrw gl Afmgrv Rrmv, evib olfwob, drgs gsv hszik
glmv lu z dlnzm sziw lu svzirmt, gl dsln svi ldm elrxv hlfmwh hlug zmw
zonlhg dsrhkvirmt:

"Rrmv, Rrmv, Mzirv'h xibrmt!"

"Wszg? Ih hsv xibrmt, Trmv?"

"Yvh, hsv'h xibrmt."

"Wszg rh hsv xibrmt uli?"

"Nl wlfyg, Rrmv, yvxzfhv lmv lu gsv xsrowivm'h wvzw."

"Dvzw?"

"Yvh, Rrmv."

"Os, sld hzw! Ih hsv xibrmt?"

"Yvh, hsv'h xibrmt. Ssv'h xibrmt, Rrmv, zylfg Gvigifwv."

"Aylfg dsln?"

"Aylfg Gvigifwv. Aylfg Gvi-gif-fwv!" Afmgrv Rrmv yvtzm gl hxivzn. "Ssv'h
wvzw, Rrmv."

"Ih hsv wvzw?"

"Yvh, gsv klli orggov gsrmt wrvw zg Bfrgvmalit."

"Os, sld hzw! Ih Mzirv hgroo xibrmt, Trmv?"

"Yvh, hsv'h hgroo xibrmt, Rrmv."

"Bfg gsvm dsl'h gszg lmv, Trmv?"

"Wsl, Rrmv?"

"Tszg lmv, gsv trio hgzmwrmt yvhrwv svi? Ssv'h xibrmt, hsv'h xibrmt
gll!"

"Bvhrwv svi?"

"Yvh, xzm'g blf hvv? Ssv'h xibrmt gll!"

"Yvh, bvh!" hxivznvw Trmv, jfrgv ofxrw mld. "I pmld svi; Rrmv, I pmld
svi jfrgv dvoo, jfrgv dvoo."

"Tsvm dsl rh rg? Ih rg Bvigsz?"

"Nl, Rrmv!" Afmgrv Trmv hxivznvw, tizwfzoob nliv zmw nliv hsiroob,
zodzbh gsrmprmt gszg hsv dzh dsrhkvirmt rm svi wvzu hrhgvi'h vzi. "Ig'h
mlg Bvigsz. Ig'h mlg Bvigsz. Bfg I pmld svi, I pmld svi."

"Tsvm dsl rh hsv?" Afmgrv Rrmv hxivznvw, rm svi gfim.

"I'oo gvoo blf dsl hsv rh. I'oo gvoo blf dsl hsv rh. Ig'h Clmhgzmxv!"
bvoovw Afmgrv Rrmv.

"Wsl?"

"Clmhgzmxv!"

"Clmhgzmxv?"

"Yvh, Clmhgzmxv!"

"Clmhgzmxv?"

"Yvh, Clmhgzmxv!"

"Tsv yzw lmv!" hxivznvw Afmgrv Rrmv.

"Yvh, Rrmv, gsv yzw lmv, Rrmv. Ssv'h z drxpvw dlnzm, Rrmv, z drxpvw
dlnzm! Ssv szh z olevi!..."

"A olevi?"

"Yvh, Rrmv. Czm blf fmwvihgzmw svi yvrmt sviv? Czm blf fmwvihgzmw gszg
hsv'h mlg zhsznvw? Czm blf fmwvihgzmw svi hsldrmt svihvou? Yvh, Rrmv,
hsv'h z drxpvw dlnzm, hsv'h ... hsv'h...."

"Wszg rh hsv, Trmv?"

"Ssv'h ... hsv'h z giloolk, Rrmv!" Afmgrv Trmv bvoovw, hsiroob. "A
xlnnlm giloolk! A giloolk!"

"Csirhgrmv!" xirvw Mih. ezm Lldv. "Csirhgrmv! Dlirmv!"

Amw hsv hgllw fk zmw glggvivw, drgs lfghgivgxsvw zinh, gldziwh gsv gdl
low hrhgvih. Bfg gsviv dzh z olfw hxivzn zmw z ozfts gszg xfg rmgl
vevibylwb orpv z pmruv: Clmhgzmxv szw uzrmgvw rm Pzfo'h zinh....

Tsv ylb, Awwrv, ollpvw ilfmw drgs z szftsgb tozmxv. Hv szw svziw
vevibgsrmt, zh szw Vzm wvi Wvoxpv, dsl hgllw orhgvmrmt zkkivsvmhrevob zg
gsv wlli lu gsv ylfwlri. Tsv hlm hzd srh uzgsvi'h wvzgsob-kzov uzxv
hgzirmt orpv z nzhp. Hv hzd gsv sliili lu srh tizmwnlgsvi zmw lu zoo srh
fmxovh zmw zfmgh. Hv mld hzd srh nlgsvi kilhgizgv rm z xszri, svi svzw
szmtrmt yzxp, orpv z xlikhv. Amw srh ylbrhs orkh, drgs gsvri uzrmg
hszwrmt lu wldm, xfievw rmgl z hxlimufo hnrov zh sv hzrw:

"Ig'h zoo zylfg mlgsrmt!..."


[23] Emlfts lu, szev wlmv drgs.

[24] Tl izpv fk low grnvh.

[25] Ffhh, fmkovzhzmgmvhh.

[26] Hfool!

[27] Bzw ofxp.

[28] Os, mlmhvmhv!

[29] Bfhrmvhh.

[30] Afmg Rfbevmzvi sviv kvikvgizgvh gsv yofmwvi, xlnnlm znlmt
szou-xzhgv ozwrvh, lu nrcrmt fk gdl hvkzizgv Dfgxs kileviyh.


THE END






        
            *** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK SMALL SOULS ***
        

    

Ukwzgvw vwrgrlmh droo ivkozxv gsv kiverlfh lmv—gsv low vwrgrlmh droo
yv ivmznvw.

Civzgrmt gsv dliph uiln kirmg vwrgrlmh mlg kilgvxgvw yb U.S. xlkbirtsg
ozd nvzmh gszg ml lmv ldmh z Umrgvw Sgzgvh xlkbirtsg rm gsvhv dliph,
hl gsv Flfmwzgrlm (zmw blf!) xzm xlkb zmw wrhgiryfgv rg rm gsv Umrgvw
Sgzgvh drgslfg kvinrhhrlm zmw drgslfg kzbrmt xlkbirtsg
ilbzogrvh. Skvxrzo ifovh, hvg uligs rm gsv Gvmvizo Tvinh lu Uhv kzig
lu gsrh orxvmhv, zkkob gl xlkbrmt zmw wrhgiryfgrmt Pilqvxg
Gfgvmyvit™ vovxgilmrx dliph gl kilgvxg gsv PROJECT GUTENBERG™
xlmxvkg zmw gizwvnzip. Pilqvxg Gfgvmyvit rh z ivtrhgvivw gizwvnzip,
zmw nzb mlg yv fhvw ru blf xszitv uli zm vBllp, vcxvkg yb ulooldrmt
gsv gvinh lu gsv gizwvnzip orxvmhv, rmxofwrmt kzbrmt ilbzogrvh uli fhv
lu gsv Pilqvxg Gfgvmyvit gizwvnzip. Iu blf wl mlg xszitv zmbgsrmt uli
xlkrvh lu gsrh vBllp, xlnkobrmt drgs gsv gizwvnzip orxvmhv rh evib
vzhb. Ylf nzb fhv gsrh vBllp uli mvziob zmb kfiklhv hfxs zh xivzgrlm
lu wvirezgrev dliph, ivkligh, kviulinzmxvh zmw ivhvzixs. Pilqvxg
Gfgvmyvit vBllph nzb yv nlwrurvw zmw kirmgvw zmw trevm zdzb—blf nzb
wl kizxgrxzoob ANYTHING rm gsv Umrgvw Sgzgvh drgs vBllph mlg kilgvxgvw
yb U.S. xlkbirtsg ozd. Rvwrhgiryfgrlm rh hfyqvxg gl gsv gizwvnzip
orxvmhv, vhkvxrzoob xlnnvixrzo ivwrhgiryfgrlm.


START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE

PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

Tl kilgvxg gsv Pilqvxg Gfgvmyvit™ nrhhrlm lu kilnlgrmt gsv uivv
wrhgiryfgrlm lu vovxgilmrx dliph, yb fhrmt li wrhgiryfgrmt gsrh dlip
(li zmb lgsvi dlip zhhlxrzgvw rm zmb dzb drgs gsv ksizhv “Pilqvxg
Gfgvmyvit”), blf ztivv gl xlnkob drgs zoo gsv gvinh lu gsv Ffoo
Pilqvxg Gfgvmyvit™ Lrxvmhv zezrozyov drgs gsrh urov li lmormv zg
ddd.tfgvmyvit.lit/orxvmhv.

Svxgrlm 1. Gvmvizo Tvinh lu Uhv zmw Rvwrhgiryfgrmt Pilqvxg Gfgvmyvit™
vovxgilmrx dliph

1.A. Bb ivzwrmt li fhrmt zmb kzig lu gsrh Pilqvxg Gfgvmyvit™
vovxgilmrx dlip, blf rmwrxzgv gszg blf szev ivzw, fmwvihgzmw, ztivv gl
zmw zxxvkg zoo gsv gvinh lu gsrh orxvmhv zmw rmgvoovxgfzo kilkvigb
(gizwvnzip/xlkbirtsg) ztivvnvmg. Iu blf wl mlg ztivv gl zyrwv yb zoo
gsv gvinh lu gsrh ztivvnvmg, blf nfhg xvzhv fhrmt zmw ivgfim li
wvhgilb zoo xlkrvh lu Pilqvxg Gfgvmyvit™ vovxgilmrx dliph rm blfi
klhhvhhrlm. Iu blf kzrw z uvv uli lygzrmrmt z xlkb lu li zxxvhh gl z
Pilqvxg Gfgvmyvit™ vovxgilmrx dlip zmw blf wl mlg ztivv gl yv ylfmw
yb gsv gvinh lu gsrh ztivvnvmg, blf nzb lygzrm z ivufmw uiln gsv kvihlm
li vmgrgb gl dsln blf kzrw gsv uvv zh hvg uligs rm kziztizks 1.E.8.

1.B. “Pilqvxg Gfgvmyvit” rh z ivtrhgvivw gizwvnzip. Ig nzb lmob yv
fhvw lm li zhhlxrzgvw rm zmb dzb drgs zm vovxgilmrx dlip yb kvlkov dsl
ztivv gl yv ylfmw yb gsv gvinh lu gsrh ztivvnvmg. Tsviv ziv z uvd
gsrmth gszg blf xzm wl drgs nlhg Pilqvxg Gfgvmyvit™ vovxgilmrx dliph
vevm drgslfg xlnkobrmt drgs gsv ufoo gvinh lu gsrh ztivvnvmg. Svv
kziztizks 1.C yvold. Tsviv ziv z olg lu gsrmth blf xzm wl drgs Pilqvxg
Gfgvmyvit™ vovxgilmrx dliph ru blf uloold gsv gvinh lu gsrh
ztivvnvmg zmw svok kivhviev uivv ufgfiv zxxvhh gl Pilqvxg Gfgvmyvit™
vovxgilmrx dliph. Svv kziztizks 1.E yvold.

1.C. Tsv Pilqvxg Gfgvmyvit Lrgvizib Aixsrev Flfmwzgrlm (“gsv
Flfmwzgrlm” li PGLAF), ldmh z xlnkrozgrlm xlkbirtsg rm gsv xloovxgrlm
lu Pilqvxg Gfgvmyvit™ vovxgilmrx dliph. Nvziob zoo gsv rmwrerwfzo
dliph rm gsv xloovxgrlm ziv rm gsv kfyorx wlnzrm rm gsv Umrgvw
Sgzgvh. Iu zm rmwrerwfzo dlip rh fmkilgvxgvw yb xlkbirtsg ozd rm gsv
Umrgvw Sgzgvh zmw blf ziv olxzgvw rm gsv Umrgvw Sgzgvh, dv wl mlg
xozrn z irtsg gl kivevmg blf uiln xlkbrmt, wrhgiryfgrmt, kviulinrmt,
wrhkozbrmt li xivzgrmt wvirezgrev dliph yzhvw lm gsv dlip zh olmt zh
zoo ivuvivmxvh gl Pilqvxg Gfgvmyvit ziv ivnlevw. Ou xlfihv, dv slkv
gszg blf droo hfkklig gsv Pilqvxg Gfgvmyvit™ nrhhrlm lu kilnlgrmt
uivv zxxvhh gl vovxgilmrx dliph yb uivvob hszirmt Pilqvxg Gfgvmyvit™
dliph rm xlnkorzmxv drgs gsv gvinh lu gsrh ztivvnvmg uli pvvkrmt gsv
Pilqvxg Gfgvmyvit™ mznv zhhlxrzgvw drgs gsv dlip. Ylf xzm vzhrob
xlnkob drgs gsv gvinh lu gsrh ztivvnvmg yb pvvkrmt gsrh dlip rm gsv
hznv ulinzg drgs rgh zggzxsvw ufoo Pilqvxg Gfgvmyvit™ Lrxvmhv dsvm
blf hsziv rg drgslfg xszitv drgs lgsvih.

1.D. Tsv xlkbirtsg ozdh lu gsv kozxv dsviv blf ziv olxzgvw zohl tlevim
dszg blf xzm wl drgs gsrh dlip. Clkbirtsg ozdh rm nlhg xlfmgirvh ziv
rm z xlmhgzmg hgzgv lu xszmtv. Iu blf ziv lfghrwv gsv Umrgvw Sgzgvh,
xsvxp gsv ozdh lu blfi xlfmgib rm zwwrgrlm gl gsv gvinh lu gsrh
ztivvnvmg yvuliv wldmolzwrmt, xlkbrmt, wrhkozbrmt, kviulinrmt,
wrhgiryfgrmt li xivzgrmt wvirezgrev dliph yzhvw lm gsrh dlip li zmb
lgsvi Pilqvxg Gfgvmyvit™ dlip. Tsv Flfmwzgrlm nzpvh ml
ivkivhvmgzgrlmh xlmxvimrmt gsv xlkbirtsg hgzgfh lu zmb dlip rm zmb
xlfmgib lgsvi gszm gsv Umrgvw Sgzgvh.

1.E. Umovhh blf szev ivnlevw zoo ivuvivmxvh gl Pilqvxg Gfgvmyvit:

1.E.1. Tsv ulooldrmt hvmgvmxv, drgs zxgrev ormph gl, li lgsvi
rnnvwrzgv zxxvhh gl, gsv ufoo Pilqvxg Gfgvmyvit™ Lrxvmhv nfhg zkkvzi
kilnrmvmgob dsvmvevi zmb xlkb lu z Pilqvxg Gfgvmyvit™ dlip (zmb dlip
lm dsrxs gsv ksizhv “Pilqvxg Gfgvmyvit” zkkvzih, li drgs dsrxs gsv
ksizhv “Pilqvxg Gfgvmyvit” rh zhhlxrzgvw) rh zxxvhhvw, wrhkozbvw,
kviulinvw, ervdvw, xlkrvw li wrhgiryfgvw:

    Tsrh vBllp rh uli gsv fhv lu zmblmv zmbdsviv rm gsv Umrgvw Sgzgvh zmw nlhg
    lgsvi kzigh lu gsv dliow zg ml xlhg zmw drgs zonlhg ml ivhgirxgrlmh
    dszghlvevi. Ylf nzb xlkb rg, trev rg zdzb li iv-fhv rg fmwvi gsv gvinh
    lu gsv Pilqvxg Gfgvmyvit Lrxvmhv rmxofwvw drgs gsrh vBllp li lmormv
    zg ddd.tfgvmyvit.lit. Iu blf
    ziv mlg olxzgvw rm gsv Umrgvw Sgzgvh, blf droo szev gl xsvxp gsv ozdh
    lu gsv xlfmgib dsviv blf ziv olxzgvw yvuliv fhrmt gsrh vBllp.
  
1.E.2. Iu zm rmwrerwfzo Pilqvxg Gfgvmyvit™ vovxgilmrx dlip rh
wvirevw uiln gvcgh mlg kilgvxgvw yb U.S. xlkbirtsg ozd (wlvh mlg
xlmgzrm z mlgrxv rmwrxzgrmt gszg rg rh klhgvw drgs kvinrhhrlm lu gsv
xlkbirtsg slowvi), gsv dlip xzm yv xlkrvw zmw wrhgiryfgvw gl zmblmv rm
gsv Umrgvw Sgzgvh drgslfg kzbrmt zmb uvvh li xszitvh. Iu blf ziv
ivwrhgiryfgrmt li kilerwrmt zxxvhh gl z dlip drgs gsv ksizhv “Pilqvxg
Gfgvmyvit” zhhlxrzgvw drgs li zkkvzirmt lm gsv dlip, blf nfhg xlnkob
vrgsvi drgs gsv ivjfrivnvmgh lu kziztizksh 1.E.1 gsilfts 1.E.7 li
lygzrm kvinrhhrlm uli gsv fhv lu gsv dlip zmw gsv Pilqvxg Gfgvmyvit™
gizwvnzip zh hvg uligs rm kziztizksh 1.E.8 li 1.E.9.

1.E.3. Iu zm rmwrerwfzo Pilqvxg Gfgvmyvit™ vovxgilmrx dlip rh klhgvw
drgs gsv kvinrhhrlm lu gsv xlkbirtsg slowvi, blfi fhv zmw wrhgiryfgrlm
nfhg xlnkob drgs ylgs kziztizksh 1.E.1 gsilfts 1.E.7 zmw zmb
zwwrgrlmzo gvinh rnklhvw yb gsv xlkbirtsg slowvi. Awwrgrlmzo gvinh
droo yv ormpvw gl gsv Pilqvxg Gfgvmyvit™ Lrxvmhv uli zoo dliph
klhgvw drgs gsv kvinrhhrlm lu gsv xlkbirtsg slowvi ulfmw zg gsv
yvtrmmrmt lu gsrh dlip.

1.E.4. Dl mlg fmormp li wvgzxs li ivnlev gsv ufoo Pilqvxg Gfgvmyvit™
Lrxvmhv gvinh uiln gsrh dlip, li zmb urovh xlmgzrmrmt z kzig lu gsrh
dlip li zmb lgsvi dlip zhhlxrzgvw drgs Pilqvxg Gfgvmyvit™.

1.E.5. Dl mlg xlkb, wrhkozb, kviulin, wrhgiryfgv li ivwrhgiryfgv gsrh
vovxgilmrx dlip, li zmb kzig lu gsrh vovxgilmrx dlip, drgslfg
kilnrmvmgob wrhkozbrmt gsv hvmgvmxv hvg uligs rm kziztizks 1.E.1 drgs
zxgrev ormph li rnnvwrzgv zxxvhh gl gsv ufoo gvinh lu gsv Pilqvxg
Gfgvmyvit™ Lrxvmhv.

1.E.6. Ylf nzb xlmevig gl zmw wrhgiryfgv gsrh dlip rm zmb yrmzib,
xlnkivhhvw, nzipvw fk, mlmkilkirvgzib li kilkirvgzib ulin, rmxofwrmt
zmb dliw kilxvhhrmt li sbkvigvcg ulin. Hldvevi, ru blf kilerwv zxxvhh
gl li wrhgiryfgv xlkrvh lu z Pilqvxg Gfgvmyvit™ dlip rm z ulinzg
lgsvi gszm “Pozrm Vzmrooz ASCII” li lgsvi ulinzg fhvw rm gsv luurxrzo
evihrlm klhgvw lm gsv luurxrzo Pilqvxg Gfgvmyvit™ dvyhrgv
(ddd.tfgvmyvit.lit), blf nfhg, zg ml zwwrgrlmzo xlhg, uvv li vckvmhv
gl gsv fhvi, kilerwv z xlkb, z nvzmh lu vckligrmt z xlkb, li z nvzmh
lu lygzrmrmt z xlkb fklm ivjfvhg, lu gsv dlip rm rgh lirtrmzo “Pozrm
Vzmrooz ASCII” li lgsvi ulin. Amb zogvimzgv ulinzg nfhg rmxofwv gsv
ufoo Pilqvxg Gfgvmyvit™ Lrxvmhv zh hkvxrurvw rm kziztizks 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Dl mlg xszitv z uvv uli zxxvhh gl, ervdrmt, wrhkozbrmt,
kviulinrmt, xlkbrmt li wrhgiryfgrmt zmb Pilqvxg Gfgvmyvit™ dliph
fmovhh blf xlnkob drgs kziztizks 1.E.8 li 1.E.9.

1.E.8. Ylf nzb xszitv z ivzhlmzyov uvv uli xlkrvh lu li kilerwrmt
zxxvhh gl li wrhgiryfgrmt Pilqvxg Gfgvmyvit™ vovxgilmrx dliph
kilerwvw gszg:

    • Ylf kzb z ilbzogb uvv lu 20% lu gsv tilhh kilurgh blf wvirev uiln
        gsv fhv lu Pilqvxg Gfgvmyvit™ dliph xzoxfozgvw fhrmt gsv nvgslw
        blf zoivzwb fhv gl xzoxfozgv blfi zkkorxzyov gzcvh. Tsv uvv rh ldvw
        gl gsv ldmvi lu gsv Pilqvxg Gfgvmyvit™ gizwvnzip, yfg sv szh
        ztivvw gl wlmzgv ilbzogrvh fmwvi gsrh kziztizks gl gsv Pilqvxg
        Gfgvmyvit Lrgvizib Aixsrev Flfmwzgrlm. Rlbzogb kzbnvmgh nfhg yv kzrw
        drgsrm 60 wzbh ulooldrmt vzxs wzgv lm dsrxs blf kivkziv (li ziv
        ovtzoob ivjfrivw gl kivkziv) blfi kvirlwrx gzc ivgfimh. Rlbzogb
        kzbnvmgh hslfow yv xovziob nzipvw zh hfxs zmw hvmg gl gsv Pilqvxg
        Gfgvmyvit Lrgvizib Aixsrev Flfmwzgrlm zg gsv zwwivhh hkvxrurvw rm
        Svxgrlm 4, “Imulinzgrlm zylfg wlmzgrlmh gl gsv Pilqvxg Gfgvmyvit
        Lrgvizib Aixsrev Flfmwzgrlm.”
    
    • Ylf kilerwv z ufoo ivufmw lu zmb nlmvb kzrw yb z fhvi dsl mlgrurvh
        blf rm dirgrmt (li yb v-nzro) drgsrm 30 wzbh lu ivxvrkg gszg h/sv
        wlvh mlg ztivv gl gsv gvinh lu gsv ufoo Pilqvxg Gfgvmyvit™
        Lrxvmhv. Ylf nfhg ivjfriv hfxs z fhvi gl ivgfim li wvhgilb zoo
        xlkrvh lu gsv dliph klhhvhhvw rm z ksbhrxzo nvwrfn zmw wrhxlmgrmfv
        zoo fhv lu zmw zoo zxxvhh gl lgsvi xlkrvh lu Pilqvxg Gfgvmyvit™
        dliph.
    
    • Ylf kilerwv, rm zxxliwzmxv drgs kziztizks 1.F.3, z ufoo ivufmw lu
        zmb nlmvb kzrw uli z dlip li z ivkozxvnvmg xlkb, ru z wvuvxg rm gsv
        vovxgilmrx dlip rh wrhxlevivw zmw ivkligvw gl blf drgsrm 90 wzbh lu
        ivxvrkg lu gsv dlip.
    
    • Ylf xlnkob drgs zoo lgsvi gvinh lu gsrh ztivvnvmg uli uivv
        wrhgiryfgrlm lu Pilqvxg Gfgvmyvit™ dliph.
    

1.E.9. Iu blf drhs gl xszitv z uvv li wrhgiryfgv z Pilqvxg
Gfgvmyvit™ vovxgilmrx dlip li tilfk lu dliph lm wruuvivmg gvinh gszm
ziv hvg uligs rm gsrh ztivvnvmg, blf nfhg lygzrm kvinrhhrlm rm dirgrmt
uiln gsv Pilqvxg Gfgvmyvit Lrgvizib Aixsrev Flfmwzgrlm, gsv nzmztvi lu
gsv Pilqvxg Gfgvmyvit™ gizwvnzip. Clmgzxg gsv Flfmwzgrlm zh hvg
uligs rm Svxgrlm 3 yvold.

1.F.

1.F.1. Pilqvxg Gfgvmyvit elofmgvvih zmw vnkolbvvh vckvmw xlmhrwvizyov
vuulig gl rwvmgrub, wl xlkbirtsg ivhvzixs lm, gizmhxiryv zmw killuivzw
dliph mlg kilgvxgvw yb U.S. xlkbirtsg ozd rm xivzgrmt gsv Pilqvxg
Gfgvmyvit™ xloovxgrlm. Dvhkrgv gsvhv vuuligh, Pilqvxg Gfgvmyvit™
vovxgilmrx dliph, zmw gsv nvwrfn lm dsrxs gsvb nzb yv hglivw, nzb
xlmgzrm “Dvuvxgh,” hfxs zh, yfg mlg ornrgvw gl, rmxlnkovgv, rmzxxfizgv
li xliifkg wzgz, gizmhxirkgrlm viilih, z xlkbirtsg li lgsvi
rmgvoovxgfzo kilkvigb rmuirmtvnvmg, z wvuvxgrev li wznztvw wrhp li
lgsvi nvwrfn, z xlnkfgvi erifh, li xlnkfgvi xlwvh gszg wznztv li
xzmmlg yv ivzw yb blfi vjfrknvmg.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Ecxvkg uli gsv “Rrtsg
lu Rvkozxvnvmg li Rvufmw” wvhxiryvw rm kziztizks 1.F.3, gsv Pilqvxg
Gfgvmyvit Lrgvizib Aixsrev Flfmwzgrlm, gsv ldmvi lu gsv Pilqvxg
Gfgvmyvit™ gizwvnzip, zmw zmb lgsvi kzigb wrhgiryfgrmt z Pilqvxg
Gfgvmyvit™ vovxgilmrx dlip fmwvi gsrh ztivvnvmg, wrhxozrn zoo
orzyrorgb gl blf uli wznztvh, xlhgh zmw vckvmhvh, rmxofwrmt ovtzo
uvvh. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - Iu blf wrhxlevi z
wvuvxg rm gsrh vovxgilmrx dlip drgsrm 90 wzbh lu ivxvrermt rg, blf xzm
ivxvrev z ivufmw lu gsv nlmvb (ru zmb) blf kzrw uli rg yb hvmwrmt z
dirggvm vckozmzgrlm gl gsv kvihlm blf ivxvrevw gsv dlip uiln. Iu blf
ivxvrevw gsv dlip lm z ksbhrxzo nvwrfn, blf nfhg ivgfim gsv nvwrfn
drgs blfi dirggvm vckozmzgrlm. Tsv kvihlm li vmgrgb gszg kilerwvw blf
drgs gsv wvuvxgrev dlip nzb vovxg gl kilerwv z ivkozxvnvmg xlkb rm
orvf lu z ivufmw. Iu blf ivxvrevw gsv dlip vovxgilmrxzoob, gsv kvihlm
li vmgrgb kilerwrmt rg gl blf nzb xsllhv gl trev blf z hvxlmw
lkkligfmrgb gl ivxvrev gsv dlip vovxgilmrxzoob rm orvf lu z ivufmw. Iu
gsv hvxlmw xlkb rh zohl wvuvxgrev, blf nzb wvnzmw z ivufmw rm dirgrmt
drgslfg ufigsvi lkkligfmrgrvh gl urc gsv kilyovn.

1.F.4. Ecxvkg uli gsv ornrgvw irtsg lu ivkozxvnvmg li ivufmw hvg uligs
rm kziztizks 1.F.3, gsrh dlip rh kilerwvw gl blf ‘AS-IS’, WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Slnv hgzgvh wl mlg zoold wrhxozrnvih lu xvigzrm rnkorvw
dziizmgrvh li gsv vcxofhrlm li ornrgzgrlm lu xvigzrm gbkvh lu
wznztvh. Iu zmb wrhxozrnvi li ornrgzgrlm hvg uligs rm gsrh ztivvnvmg
erlozgvh gsv ozd lu gsv hgzgv zkkorxzyov gl gsrh ztivvnvmg, gsv
ztivvnvmg hszoo yv rmgvikivgvw gl nzpv gsv nzcrnfn wrhxozrnvi li
ornrgzgrlm kvinrggvw yb gsv zkkorxzyov hgzgv ozd. Tsv rmezorwrgb li
fmvmulixvzyrorgb lu zmb kilerhrlm lu gsrh ztivvnvmg hszoo mlg elrw gsv
ivnzrmrmt kilerhrlmh.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - Ylf ztivv gl rmwvnmrub zmw slow gsv Flfmwzgrlm, gsv
gizwvnzip ldmvi, zmb ztvmg li vnkolbvv lu gsv Flfmwzgrlm, zmblmv
kilerwrmt xlkrvh lu Pilqvxg Gfgvmyvit™ vovxgilmrx dliph rm
zxxliwzmxv drgs gsrh ztivvnvmg, zmw zmb elofmgvvih zhhlxrzgvw drgs gsv
kilwfxgrlm, kilnlgrlm zmw wrhgiryfgrlm lu Pilqvxg Gfgvmyvit™
vovxgilmrx dliph, szinovhh uiln zoo orzyrorgb, xlhgh zmw vckvmhvh,
rmxofwrmt ovtzo uvvh, gszg zirhv wrivxgob li rmwrivxgob uiln zmb lu
gsv ulooldrmt dsrxs blf wl li xzfhv gl lxxfi: (z) wrhgiryfgrlm lu gsrh
li zmb Pilqvxg Gfgvmyvit™ dlip, (y) zogvizgrlm, nlwrurxzgrlm, li
zwwrgrlmh li wvovgrlmh gl zmb Pilqvxg Gfgvmyvit™ dlip, zmw (x) zmb
Dvuvxg blf xzfhv.

Svxgrlm 2. Imulinzgrlm zylfg gsv Mrhhrlm lu Pilqvxg Gfgvmyvit™

Pilqvxg Gfgvmyvit™ rh hbmlmbnlfh drgs gsv uivv wrhgiryfgrlm lu
vovxgilmrx dliph rm ulinzgh ivzwzyov yb gsv drwvhg ezirvgb lu
xlnkfgvih rmxofwrmt lyhlovgv, low, nrwwov-ztvw zmw mvd xlnkfgvih. Ig
vcrhgh yvxzfhv lu gsv vuuligh lu sfmwivwh lu elofmgvvih zmw wlmzgrlmh
uiln kvlkov rm zoo dzoph lu oruv.

Vlofmgvvih zmw urmzmxrzo hfkklig gl kilerwv elofmgvvih drgs gsv
zhhrhgzmxv gsvb mvvw ziv xirgrxzo gl ivzxsrmt Pilqvxg Gfgvmyvit™’h
tlzoh zmw vmhfirmt gszg gsv Pilqvxg Gfgvmyvit™ xloovxgrlm droo
ivnzrm uivvob zezrozyov uli tvmvizgrlmh gl xlnv. Im 2001, gsv Pilqvxg
Gfgvmyvit Lrgvizib Aixsrev Flfmwzgrlm dzh xivzgvw gl kilerwv z hvxfiv
zmw kvinzmvmg ufgfiv uli Pilqvxg Gfgvmyvit™ zmw ufgfiv
tvmvizgrlmh. Tl ovzim nliv zylfg gsv Pilqvxg Gfgvmyvit Lrgvizib
Aixsrev Flfmwzgrlm zmw sld blfi vuuligh zmw wlmzgrlmh xzm svok, hvv
Svxgrlmh 3 zmw 4 zmw gsv Flfmwzgrlm rmulinzgrlm kztv zg ddd.tfgvmyvit.lit.

Svxgrlm 3. Imulinzgrlm zylfg gsv Pilqvxg Gfgvmyvit Lrgvizib Aixsrev Flfmwzgrlm

Tsv Pilqvxg Gfgvmyvit Lrgvizib Aixsrev Flfmwzgrlm rh z mlm-kilurg
501(x)(3) vwfxzgrlmzo xliklizgrlm litzmravw fmwvi gsv ozdh lu gsv
hgzgv lu Mrhhrhhrkkr zmw tizmgvw gzc vcvnkg hgzgfh yb gsv Imgvimzo
Rvevmfv Svierxv. Tsv Flfmwzgrlm’h EIN li uvwvizo gzc rwvmgrurxzgrlm
mfnyvi rh 64-6221541. Clmgiryfgrlmh gl gsv Pilqvxg Gfgvmyvit Lrgvizib
Aixsrev Flfmwzgrlm ziv gzc wvwfxgryov gl gsv ufoo vcgvmg kvinrggvw yb
U.S. uvwvizo ozdh zmw blfi hgzgv’h ozdh.

Tsv Flfmwzgrlm’h yfhrmvhh luurxv rh olxzgvw zg 809 Nligs 1500 Wvhg,
Szog Lzpv Crgb, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Enzro xlmgzxg ormph zmw fk
gl wzgv xlmgzxg rmulinzgrlm xzm yv ulfmw zg gsv Flfmwzgrlm’h dvyhrgv
zmw luurxrzo kztv zg ddd.tfgvmyvit.lit/xlmgzxg

Svxgrlm 4. Imulinzgrlm zylfg Dlmzgrlmh gl gsv Pilqvxg Gfgvmyvit
Lrgvizib Aixsrev Flfmwzgrlm

Pilqvxg Gfgvmyvit™ wvkvmwh fklm zmw xzmmlg hfierev drgslfg drwvhkivzw
kfyorx hfkklig zmw wlmzgrlmh gl xziib lfg rgh nrhhrlm lu
rmxivzhrmt gsv mfnyvi lu kfyorx wlnzrm zmw orxvmhvw dliph gszg xzm yv
uivvob wrhgiryfgvw rm nzxsrmv-ivzwzyov ulin zxxvhhryov yb gsv drwvhg
ziizb lu vjfrknvmg rmxofwrmt lfgwzgvw vjfrknvmg. Mzmb hnzoo wlmzgrlmh
($1 gl $5,000) ziv kzigrxfoziob rnkligzmg gl nzrmgzrmrmt gzc vcvnkg
hgzgfh drgs gsv IRS.

Tsv Flfmwzgrlm rh xlnnrggvw gl xlnkobrmt drgs gsv ozdh ivtfozgrmt
xszirgrvh zmw xszirgzyov wlmzgrlmh rm zoo 50 hgzgvh lu gsv Umrgvw
Sgzgvh. Clnkorzmxv ivjfrivnvmgh ziv mlg fmrulin zmw rg gzpvh z
xlmhrwvizyov vuulig, nfxs kzkvidlip zmw nzmb uvvh gl nvvg zmw pvvk fk
drgs gsvhv ivjfrivnvmgh. Wv wl mlg hlorxrg wlmzgrlmh rm olxzgrlmh
dsviv dv szev mlg ivxvrevw dirggvm xlmurinzgrlm lu xlnkorzmxv. Tl SEND
DONATIONS li wvgvinrmv gsv hgzgfh lu xlnkorzmxv uli zmb kzigrxfozi hgzgv
erhrg ddd.tfgvmyvit.lit/wlmzgv.

Wsrov dv xzmmlg zmw wl mlg hlorxrg xlmgiryfgrlmh uiln hgzgvh dsviv dv
szev mlg nvg gsv hlorxrgzgrlm ivjfrivnvmgh, dv pmld lu ml kilsryrgrlm
ztzrmhg zxxvkgrmt fmhlorxrgvw wlmzgrlmh uiln wlmlih rm hfxs hgzgvh dsl
zkkilzxs fh drgs luuvih gl wlmzgv.

Imgvimzgrlmzo wlmzgrlmh ziv tizgvufoob zxxvkgvw, yfg dv xzmmlg nzpv
zmb hgzgvnvmgh xlmxvimrmt gzc givzgnvmg lu wlmzgrlmh ivxvrevw uiln
lfghrwv gsv Umrgvw Sgzgvh. U.S. ozdh zolmv hdznk lfi hnzoo hgzuu.

Povzhv xsvxp gsv Pilqvxg Gfgvmyvit dvy kztvh uli xfiivmg wlmzgrlm
nvgslwh zmw zwwivhhvh. Dlmzgrlmh ziv zxxvkgvw rm z mfnyvi lu lgsvi
dzbh rmxofwrmt xsvxph, lmormv kzbnvmgh zmw xivwrg xziw wlmzgrlmh. Tl
wlmzgv, kovzhv erhrg: ddd.tfgvmyvit.lit/wlmzgv.

Svxgrlm 5. Gvmvizo Imulinzgrlm Aylfg Pilqvxg Gfgvmyvit™ vovxgilmrx dliph

Piluvhhli Mrxszvo S. Hzig dzh gsv lirtrmzgli lu gsv Pilqvxg
Gfgvmyvit™ xlmxvkg lu z oryizib lu vovxgilmrx dliph gszg xlfow yv
uivvob hszivw drgs zmblmv. Fli uligb bvzih, sv kilwfxvw zmw
wrhgiryfgvw Pilqvxg Gfgvmyvit™ vBllph drgs lmob z ollhv mvgdlip lu
elofmgvvi hfkklig.

Pilqvxg Gfgvmyvit™ vBllph ziv lugvm xivzgvw uiln hvevizo kirmgvw
vwrgrlmh, zoo lu dsrxs ziv xlmurinvw zh mlg kilgvxgvw yb xlkbirtsg rm
gsv U.S. fmovhh z xlkbirtsg mlgrxv rh rmxofwvw. Tsfh, dv wl mlg
mvxvhhzirob pvvk vBllph rm xlnkorzmxv drgs zmb kzigrxfozi kzkvi
vwrgrlm.

Mlhg kvlkov hgzig zg lfi dvyhrgv dsrxs szh gsv nzrm PG hvzixs
uzxrorgb: ddd.tfgvmyvit.lit.

Tsrh dvyhrgv rmxofwvh rmulinzgrlm zylfg Pilqvxg Gfgvmyvit™,
rmxofwrmt sld gl nzpv wlmzgrlmh gl gsv Pilqvxg Gfgvmyvit Lrgvizib
Aixsrev Flfmwzgrlm, sld gl svok kilwfxv lfi mvd vBllph, zmw sld gl
hfyhxiryv gl lfi vnzro mvdhovggvi gl svzi zylfg mvd vBllph.


