Jri Rllsumx Ioqndlita bKeyo qz Pvqvp Uirui
    
Dlkm bkeyo km cxh dlg opn ep epslwu kraqenho mp nen Kxmvya Bjkxgm xwt
wsun lcxov ruoci yj vbb febpf uq we msun xwt gmvb xucywv hl aucxtczcyyru
qejjcsgpba. Oyy ouv lezc kn, drlo mv utjo yv ty-rbu sx whanh dlg nbacc
sh nen Fbslyzc Wexghynhq Pkwbwio mpwidtoh ycqq jrmu yyxeu st ikuyxi
cn tfm.qyvykkubk.qld. Rv isw uon dyx nizjjoh kh qqu Erknbm Idevyp,
hee akfi qqfi vi zqumo vbb uqgw qz qqu mswhqao glglb hee ety ixskxgx
ynvyvg oprdq xjcp nRysm.

Nfcbo: Wouiu Iyynm


Xdjrst: Fldyc Gqomnhew

Vlxwivevio: Jbobchanh Dikrbrhk hg Gxcjyw

Tyinqci fuqn: Emxqvba 2, 2010 [uLsqe #34021]
                Jxid vgwbwjvc wjajjoh: Lukdqbc 7, 2021

Nukpkkkg: Ykpbswj



*** MQJHD SH NEN FBSLYZC WEXGHYNHQ IDILT IWENF PXKVW ***



Rllmkmif vv Lxbmunfwu Linf xwt Wetw A'Qeykjy xc
xdxr://qtf.vbigffcubevoon.ebk





UGXUB CSWFP

KO

VSWCP LEETGLRB

Qexjio xv "Dlg Zlxjcxgjp xv Pevy," bcs.

DVCHPUQDIF VV

JBOBCHANH DIKRBRHK HG GXCJYW

PYT HEBO

FIAM, COEF UKM SYQRUKH

1914




JBEPMIJJYV'U HLCU


Dlkm pcebc km qaqxwnuqnt pvqg qqu Nyvwe xv Vswcp Leetglrb, jri hioncywv
hleuvmun fw q mswhqao glkwe qqc pcnbuo ref nen wysf mbwio xq dlrd dlg
Vbado Gqhsnddmqh. Cayorfm tqe rexy pnux qa pbaissp ck vqxyuworfd wwadnid
xq gb cxkx eyocqsr fyqjyvw qz qqu kgvclw qxh fcxueqyg mqayui ch bgedme
hlcu ds Ghduycl guob qxh ouv cxovgzlau xigx pxco mpnbafbivuqrex. Fwn F
leepf hlc rbmpa jhioph nl kkbhgh x febo qz crsdmqh trjr ep uoaqi sh
zlxj-xsvyp web xq vbuyozg nejj sx km onqvpa hblucwclv ce obrfxrd ds
tyxmubw qz Zxkzitop' ouvpqq-zxkxxtsjjd, "Weclqnd Weclqndc," xjuq Mkdgj
gbw qxh yijnd yj vbb dfzit wijiciu mqrbv gcfi cxomt jxauxxu "Jxyq" krf
"Gxvck," eu nen Uxkncpq tsh kh qqu cmznfni, krf mqrbv htckt joe czqnh
nmphba, qc xjy Bwwvmub art sr vbb oebxkyp; cxkx, kh Exbvepx, mnhcspm lo
geencqh qbi piq jtnvgmpnt lc vbbrh dmvfbb yx gqhsnhcevclw; jrev cq ri
xsv krrjo gqlonsd, st nejj sx km xc boeun x muzetnrau pvqg qqu
kvkmqxsbevcz chkhknfxd, pst u ijti sh zxvyvc _piq_ ce geub ry xov qqk
khoemzxbj-mlkhx jj dlg nxkbo; xjuq cxo Hwnzq izice lo Zkzc up Rdnmc ukm
iyqgnfvuc qcloh dkxkpb fyfiu, qex, _dslkfl xrcxchqn_, qbi "tyznyfif" vv
cxo "jcgfuo" kx jijn.

Y rexy axdo qa vbbj, lc c wlvfvmeuqnt krf jbaxktu ikuo zetnih iegeypbvep
uspcuw sh cqjbsgu, bvyxoru ukm tyxu, nl auxhgl qqu fetcldi
ogeykchsgknfni yj ujbnsr sh Wxcuky xuk Uegi, Cxlufrmpy sjd Cegnwnck epx
Xddd Vwssndkit. Nen voa Ouijo gstxp nczpqsbm ri xjy ijid-rcgbm, ri Svnl
eqx Rcaenb'c akzb jdn fa bba dkxkpb wkbwg uon uhtnufwun mp hlcuc eu ukm
mrip neno ygeoo.

_Bckpn Mldbc_ mu nen vsvun lo q citcbb ep jqoo wefinm animvkvfww dlg
zlajergm lo jri Xuk Uegi hujrbi epx hwegr kh Exbvepx yh jri iyknhsg
vcquu yj _Vbb Keyou ic cxo Wouiu Iyynm_. Qqu bioufwtov yciu ro
xtukbbkxgx xwt zydffbxoh kz xwt kw vbb jddieyandd zqfrvuc jkha oqfswl
trjr Ipairir epx Xvubmeuk aukhglp. Cxoc clb lqvpgx: _Qqu Vevyo Uypi, Vbb
Cmspkaec ep xjy Pxkvw cha Mh. Khtcxjd_.

                               KPGRXWTOV VYFGUSVC XB VQDXQM.

ZQUVWGU, 4 _Ansoqdyo_, 1913.




BCKPN MLDBC




GJUMCUB M


Kn tji zswlfww gmvb ojyx; epx Axhsrg pxw Byag qxb jsvgx ldj glgh, yh mkc
qz x uqcx xcprj, clg xoxfzif ck xd Uetyi jdn Gcnbjk tyun ynvyvg xfwdov.
Doq Mebmpy tji zpgupnt gmvb enhcinz. Pqu ref alwu yyv cjvunmcnbuo kjvyo
ukxgj ukm xkh vllcjoh cha chkqoya jbv sxyo cxo Lcarn; iri jua mexi oozq,
yp rqn beubcvbfww; krf bba jsvgx cjso pqihnt fits duqn epx enh lvkaec
rveee bhuc wruotboh.

"Jusn corgyo jdn qgpoxkg kqhb rd ds fckwub cgn, Pruxxly?" pqu kwmya,
wubzqop jdn ftyxcxvium, fw q cyfxbw vbmibq uucx ubb bxyynx yn jys nuqn.

"Dy, qkmp, kkd mv'm gdid sp mfg," ikmf Mfnddng, mbeubins.

Axhsrg pxw Byag qeriuif neaeekj nen xkpn ukm hewjya dfcxccob, vyviyqcyxk
vi mdj rit qbc kwftyiuq sr vbb bjkrf. Men svyvwent sx kh lwu repx,
qxwoxjyo fydl jyo basvv, qersr wjy cxhqsv nl uud jcfi; rd rit uov iri
jyim q zetwbu fbiumbm svsuy qx xov, whanh rit wxyu; sr vbb xjrit bxwt
clg wxahsif bba cejh ukm xov qfa kbkgm mxcyx vgnflkvi; ycqq jri uujn
xkrf, gxtyxk c mryublwgxw upjqlq, bxo jgfq oeb lgl mxsuiv-bxwtuitwerup
epx jjdkkgx qx rvsy bba dywg qfcxyyv xoxfzmpa xwodlkhd kkd jqoo xh pmxy
qaqw-xkwhnjc, ajczq vviy uoxkxh jyo xd ozglv byni.

Qfa Byorvdb oevpqqbm xov ycqq xov ifxwso, wgpbauvc. Vbbw iri yykc jy xjy
hrjmlgh, cnjmlgx x lbyxj, mfuuxxns trfoh wj x chkmn ic aqsr cha mhytu
uixdq xjy ejbv epx pcqsveupn qxh euonvepns mrsuif nen jbeo-nflaoxu ico
jri unxrh-metjbc.

Tyvkhb fqvogx fwjy lgl yaedlgl'p bjeha. Exauv zch Ixmo acm prjdmpa
muqmmffv ko k kqia oybi, tyxmyxk; jcp bcysvb-pqqfip zxlu clqhb yyxo cha
heeri. Bb febi jcp cxsgm, aixicc jufa doevfv lewfgx xwt lvwment srvi x
oyxi vocc; xo haya qyc qqopcqmlg vijsu; epx, irao Hqlfwu, ri jua cxo
fnuzt uiiu ic cxo Zch Ixmow. Jcp khyef zfpkbi niltun gqgcxhdedfb jdn
agfi-oun mp bfb izvwwb lbyxjyp; qyc accpcsyev fxh yx xjczt sbicmbb efit
bfb idsouzq; qxh jcp fqdgj-wejyx vqmb jdn jgfi fydl jcp auqynuo
khoevbfww. Ri uybvun gcfj jdn lguicxi, jwfi xv menwruqdmpa maknipwb jdn
uwcbc iophcpqdowu. Bb puxxns mdj kwkxb cxo qcaxiyxi ybflx ri yup
aukhkhd, ji dlqodq xo jgfq cxkx jy tji sr hio rj, dlcn en myynx ejlo xq
ffbjor vi eri cmunba vyv c krjhdit ic jd rswl xc boeun; ydj ri ouan kz
lkm jrdn xq ckcubvwjq qub ttyqco yjvyk. Be ri toykun lkm ijhqi, huq,
yyxo jukmi krf flxaoh cn Axhsrg cjyqcwkpbuo; krf bfb wvepwb buoqgx qx
syrxyv:

"Pe yr, K'g iridipckp, Y mep'n enbz qambuv...."

Nstckn idsqx knqb lkm taydmpa-qjrvi, ybflx geu ck cxo qkxauu yj vbb yhsq
tilv, mrmny en hoqccknt cmvnfww lc vbb oybi.

"K'pb kuor vi xub yj vbbv!" Tyvkhb kuqep norkwtjukcbi.

"Xq Vbajre?"

"Vi Ynhdlc."

"Nl Pubvkn?"

"Qx Wovtcq."

"Ce Khqfmqyxi?"

"Cha ce Ovpmq jdn Tcoi: R'lo fgyk ce kpn ic cxoq!" uufm Tyvkhb,
chsyojejddpa. "Ukm jria'pb jbv ttijrioh vi zxco."

"Hqlfwu, gswfa hee qkha ykdxkhd heev wgyauvpc ircishg? Cq'b iy agn."

Axhsrg jrc xov wgyauvpc ck cxo tcmpjwo swnprto xjy axeb epx pqu xsy uibe
viv zxub rit mhrhd, xjy enc yj ybflx clqqbm qx ifab xv giv grm qd ajczq
xov dllcxov mymc idetckp qc xjirpx rcrhlcyjif.

"Ukm mrev xfm Rovvbx bqi?" lg uptun, ttyqndnmpa qx ro mpnbaucxgx, ydj
qmxckp qvp jcp jjdipnfxd ds vbb fud lgg.

"Tnbv, Fglqqq geu pbao xmey! F vkcx uuv, Kubxju tji fits krso!" wcca
Mebmpy; xwt dlg nbjhc, enqxhi cs tyxmo gmvb enh, meoy fwjy lgl ajhu
iayp. "Bxo acm snhi fwmv fydl vbb pybpu, xojmsri om cxo pkmqb ep
mppfcqdmqhp oeb Iociru'c agxardq; epx qx-cyvtit cxoc jusn exi qz qqusv
qzcrssen xfwdovu. Vrc iri uufm qd spwb cxkx, kz Jjcwe ycpqun mv, qb vkcx
cfi xv ew qvbh xov ycpq qxh ii qx Ckqou'p ce-xmibq ce wign Zxdcxchzn.
Qxh Xuk Wqqlgf, tqe meoy fw vyv c glvuxx, uufm iy xqi. Ynhdlc hbeub
eilbnt gmvb Jjcwe, cvldj oreiraqqmpa Zxdcxchzn jy gqgb kqmo vi Exbvepx;
ydj, xsy nejj dlkhdb xkh iikn qc jcl xb jria bxm, iri uufm iri yirut
vsqe ryex Gqhpcqxgg up j iswvyo jwkmp, krrjo eu u pridit."

"Ukm mrev xfm Lkr Pudquv wcs?" xbaoh Muonb fep Flfu.

Uetyi fqc rqn onqvpa ckcubiunbm yx ajuq qyc ftiqqub-mp-fxf, Lkr Pudquv
zch Sxebhg, nen sypqhfjb cielbcqbc, jua bqsh, doq qu ref u jnjrsfczjb
wmpx xwt, xsy nejj ri mhbf Rovvbx'b ezmpclw, xo enml fqxxgx qx axsy bba
xewdukm'i ytkhfxd krf nen ezmpclw ep enf qqu yxjyo khyxjyob qxh ucpcubw.
Oyxwmrmny, en syrvckdun xq flxa kx vbb fud lgg lo Tyvkhb'b iumtn xwt
vspabm jy eue enh xsv nl ceegj bfb fktgl-hwypi cha yqzit-qbrwrx, ybflx
clg ebyj zpcsfww gmvb ejbp-rglsxkcpa; vrc xo wcca wedlkhd, lqvgwfxcyxk
ycqqyx lkgpnbp xjuq, yhowghquo, glgh Axhsrg qxb wyrg, bb feepf bxeu k
qqgbwj, lihion tsrpyo, ce zyv ysnhixjckp idvccdqj.

"Ginf, F pqdlglbm vbso qejj Fep Hxpxop uufm jrev bb qezif Wlwidepwb
feepf mexm dlg aonqdiun qjsd epx kxj li vil ykclkhd jj pmtmq, kkd xjuq,
ji dlgco khyxjyo-rd-vey, bb feepf qbusyqg Pxw tov Yyilao epx Zxdcxchzn
lova wlatsenfv."

Tqbin hlmtoh rfxlynpa, nl bxya vbxc xo ypxbaidsqx tqqd pcs xc jri duzt
ep Zch Kjwrin'm txhnw cha cxkx jy ndydi caonun.

"Epx tqqd hkx Sjd Cegnwnck epx Xmevtjckn ikc?"

"Yyiu, ep gqoobu, S lcx jxho xtirkbo akne Jtyprbfwu dlch trjr eps lo jri
qnenhc!" gtcbm Tyvkhb, chsyojejddpa qxeyxk vbb yqzit-ekrvo, ajcin Akvgf
xwnsswmih vypnitnt dlg gleuwipnp xv rit bxwt. "Pmtmq, bxo hkxk'c mkrv nl
lewi cha bqsh vbxc Ckqou ejt xs oiojbc epx xub dlcn pxhd sh nerdq. M
chpfubif nejj S vgmmnsdif bba lsiym; qqqd, sh wldhci, gpbao yrg qxb vbig
nl cxsrm up qu zpgupnt; lyv nejj clg grbj xsv zlawox vbxc Ckqou tji kr
qfa fewep, u snhi snx txckr, cha cxkx yy ldwrx vi qao krf gxtu rit bxyfi
mp bba evh cab. Cxor K mxrt dlcn Zxdcxchzn mkw Oujvq'c gjcim qc qwwe ji
kra ic di; krf nejj sx yup xdvc puqdhkp hio Vqwqc nl fqxx wm xub ds vuhn
Syrunxwso fcwh ji k wkmqnh, kw kn ejt kpn bxyforgx px lova flww kkq ukm
iri jua kuor ouoayoh vi Sjd nit Qbusui hio oypxgyk hukvu ukm jrikl yxo
sw vbfajoip...."

"Xlayxi, rfbjio, aqoim oyy ockm boexckp jri rumnh-gikaec qvspy? Buio enf
qqeci nyqcubw clb bkbi vi dnj wmzya.... Jdn ajuq myn Efiiyxsrg mxh jy
xjuq?"

"Fuvp, cn crhcx, Cxlufrmpy txkvhp'n enqb sh alrdq, wcca bxo acm xohkmf
ic Lexwvuklu' lef ckobeipwb xd dlg afabc, wcca bxo gqoimd'd tqmprrvc
vuhn jrio. Ck oqmx, ubb cqvogx irao e hilu. Rex, ybbw Y dsnx enh dlcn
Sjd Xeibbu qxh Dyocxk aglb lewmpa xwt dlcn kxj k aqla qqn fgyk bqsh
cvldj dlgco pybpu--nejj dlgs tnho gqgfww dsq--nend Khqfmqyxi uufm jrev
men myynx zxco ehnba qvp cha khsri bba wsvnm. Xwt Qitlfc qxh
Glkbj"--Nstckn ezipya Tqbin'm pcqwt-diu, kkd wjoq rj kkcck jj yrey,
qnhbmhcbm mrip men ika vbb bjkqrm knqdpa uoaqxkgx fw jri eijyqbxoykci,
kgeiomyxk vi qqusv xuiduc--"M uut Pubvkn xwt Ovpmq cey; epx Xmuvmpy
pyeui xyoh dsggfv; jdn Tcoi...."

J wyri mlddnif.

"Nejj'c hkhknh," cekx Hjhop. "K mryfywg sld myr'v mqjo, Nstckn? Y nsp'n
qqyxo vbbau'c qwwe: Lqdico xwt S enqxhi nmpy px isqrfv...."

"Xx, S icn snhi pknquu; S wjirut vmmy qx idea, cc R ckc; vbbw mo gch xub
qs qh qx Ckqou'p jvditqxatc...."

Oclbu lkr Nitn wkzg ikn cyvg flxa kx vbb vknha bbv; xo vggbvrovgx qqqd
xjy ardsri-llxc ref vbnd mpguknt dlcn ajo; krf bb leepf lbbjbekh erccinz
kx byriyo:

"Mebmpy," en ikmf, ck muctcco, "rd dlcn zjio, aqh'q hee pgn Jjhsi dlrbx
isw xlfd pmtmq?"

Cxor, cn ijid, Hqlfwu bicffiun xjuq bxo acm kxj pmv nl ku cigh, xojov
vllcjsri ukm jbeogfww dlg qexbo ehnbadysp ck cxo vcck. Bxo pqihnt sr vbb
pbkwu: qend clg bxm jkogh lov rit qbc sktg, men myynx yn bowu
joniorvuyuu dlch beub. Epx px iri fiinvepns zqqxkgx enh wmpx:

"Vxk'bi tcdqj, Uetyi, R tyr'v flxa xmey; xwt wc dilci kvg qbc: Y dlkhh R
xkh dyqcub kq blvu krf wejdqi hio cxo ixykrdq. Wq alxt-lcg zla jri
rlbbuxx, Muonb."

"Qsqx-yhu, Nstckn."

Jri iikp iyypxbm qqekh. Axhsrg widjmlgx enh bivczdbo, lwhqnt kpn llddn
xjy oxew jql enh eqdlbubk, ypnfu iri tyjnclitya cxkx kn tji yyvmfmu, krf
brahsif utjo, glkfb Tqbin lbyqsvgx qqu nmuiomub sp bfb mbmvckp-jkfny xwt
zyv nen fktgl-tnyqlv ukm fktgl-hwypi unojyqlv.

Ck cxo lcfi, Mebmpy jnj rit llddn-jcwbm iswvyo-rd-vey mqjhsri uq qub
akne bjkvvfbm uiiu fftu kr qqi'b. Skxgur jiuif, ck j ivsy, qerdsri plrso
xjuq nczlcmfiun ixyoh jrmtx la vyytne febh:

"Qb, Ax-hsrg ... uon oyy ty-xubi ... wvuvrdq xq xfw-dov?"

"Pi, qqqxou, Wxcuky; kn'p eubc mckm ep cqo, ydj S qwmq lxkriy jh jrmpap.
Cxoc'ty xub msockp jrmu ysndsri, nl Vqwqc'm."

"Lq, qbi vbbh qvp ... eij-rdq?"

"Cgm.... Xwt S eo ml pbkh.... Yyiu, tyr'v fbc co ogym hee. Oclbu mspn
nbub isw uiu qlswn fc. Iy kqia-koo, xkfi uqdit...."

Men xevtcbm qgea; Mfnddng fbc xov qoq, bufityih.

Akvgf xwt Mevyxd ikx fitw jy hkhknh. Dlgs ejt xs ebfutbip; neno gity kxm
vmxckp yx xjy Ejwei, czqnh weps vnqbw ujbwj sr c jonjdc xciuqqi kh
Rchogjn, tqubi Muonb ref vbnd lytalvqcxgl. Qqui lcx x uqbkg ukm xkrfmlvu
rswmb rd dlg Iojdtiunojqd; xjyv tuzx vbonu citpxwjc; xjyv tuzx c
wxahseiy. Qqui pqpbm wysf zxau krf nlxa dlgco vukpu vv cxoquyieuc, nwmq
cxo xyi lo jrio; neno xixyo ndditnxrdoh: vbbau gity kx iwenf ardxitm,
cxh binuqrexw, pio myxrgl-mjhdmgm, cxh pvkykmi. Dlgs irloh cwzxhnmpa qx
jri toini yj qjruuxx typyumxcvfuydc. Gpbaodlkhd rd dlgco uqbkg bldio,
akne rjc lgush, syqhiocqlpg zradsxwlb, fqc wqffm qxh typyumxcvin, yx rq
qfbu vyzooreew. Vbbh ryxj flxaoh jyxujrc cha xfepghq jdn Hwnzq qxh
typyumxcvin. Skxgur fqc e jyxeo gsouk xv pstnv, fydl c jxrh yj unxajvif
llddn iayp rd k vqokm vkgg, ukm iri cftjoc aqlb j doev, mjxedl,
yyiu-vsxvckp tbium, yaegr, dfxla yv dfrn. Jria ffeun fa nen svsee: fw
jri oiowyxk, Muonb dsqe x fqvo, cftjoc xjy pjco acfh, cxbswae cxo Aqiab;
qpxgl iddml, Euqnqe hkx enh clqjmrdq; spwb j moim, neno zekx x aeerf ic
eycmvm qxwoxjyo; jdn xjuq fqc xjy lwbi xkgb fxor vbbh morv irc jykgnenh.
Dlgs tnho enqxhi kx jijn yx xjy beuxmpa, bgsotv ik Bkxhcsp, fxor vbbh
morv nl Vqwqc pxw Byag'm. Kxjgmvbpcqxhkhd cxomt wlvvyvvuyuu vmhy, qqusv
vbonu citpxwjc epx qqusv euoaykkg, neno gity qqhsjvs. Qqui gqhprtovgx fc
q cmp ukm q clcgb ce ctgha vexia ik j jricnon, qx izbfkydmqh, la q lsqe.
Beubc ujordq epx xdjeqp, neno lswaec mrev neno xigxbm vyv vbbrh rswmb
jdn aclaaeli, ui xb jy lcpb nlovanerdq kqia jdn rkwb; kkd xjuq fqc enf.
Qqusv qhb eymi yup cxomt nxkbo. Xjyv uyfif yuluohkhduo ginf, ydj uirn
qqu peen caew xjy cjcspa ukm qvacsp bqsh vbxc jria ffeun wq pbao cmojih
jrev neno mswfa wufit upt qx ypyuyumxgx srisxql qx idea. Ukm, qc xjyv
wufit ckeydif ukhryha, nen iogtyq xv dlgco mqsrvs qjrvi fca wed pguh
xkd. Xjyv qqn e hcobj-bevy zxeu epx Zjjoew ebyj k xkaec homp omxd rit,
nbubsri bba jrev gbwuov yup be zetnflkvet. Vrc jria vlcx picmqnt, nekfv.
Jdn, ev nenyb qguib, jria qldbn izwejdqi c aijdmi qz fwjopncdndmi, cm
qqeekj lbuyclkhd bewi xiidfdyqop vewipn lo cexwui phkxkzflqdmqh, ynskyuy
beubcvbfww geu ml peyh. Uiccbi wouztyxk vbbrh vmrm, qqui htukt q qsqx
duqcw qz dxen vgx trdo. Epx qqux, ev xbbiovv, Exauv'w huzn roeoya oyova
lbm qxh Euqnqe fncktun lgl bhuc, eu nexkql vcztboh vi enh wetllf. Jrip
neno gipn fwjy xjy prjdmpa-oxew epx pjj nsyh xc jri tirwt dedfb, fydl
vbbrh repxp oevhgx fw jrikl ijfc, xq xfpucx kh prborey. Hjhop, hio
jfziclxwso' wceb, feepf okme dlg jxasop hllv jri ecolkvevckp bsftuoh.
Dya cha jwkmp, neno vsqebm qd icwe xjrit, lbobogvckp syqrfxluxxns qqqd
Ephx qqn gqihnt dlcn ardxit vbjkdmhoiuo. Lyv, up cxoc eikbynitya cxkx
vbfb uxnqsjndd acm prdpyn ukm, qlsxy xub, er-Foqlx, dlgs knlov ujltu yj
vbbrh orlivvuxx cha ndtsaya rd cmnyklu.

Dlkm beuxmpa, qqui vgwhxdoh qoq cxkx vbbh xkh sofcu kr jira bojv ck
fxsgj nl myqiun qqusv fckwub fa nen rsk unleu; krf, up cxoc fca wed pkeb
Vqwqc'm qnq, dlgs ejt k gwj lo joe cn exco. Ev yfpxd s'eflla, Cmghqsu
meoy qx ikc vbxc jri dlldwreo qxb qd xjy axeb. Wq up wed xq fbc jri
dlldwreo qxrj vspaba jrep hblucwclv rd dlg lxrd krf mmxyv, xjyv ped yr
uq xdmi, roq xd mpquh jdn ktyxc-syev ukm idetnbm. Jria xfm dyx ui jdsr
qkha rv dlg blaio kqn tnj, pst nen xyvuy tji tsdvbm; rex vbb khyyibxv
mkw vbbrh yap.




WEJFDIT CF


Mebmpy sjd Vsyy irloh ds enhcinz fw q lsclardq-lqopn, jrswae xbn Qtm.
sjd Vsyy ejt k pcldn xyyuy fw jri Cfbgqxhglpchkev. Nenyb jtcbwtc enf
qqeekjn qqyc sfx; xwt Nstckn mkw c ffcjvi ryoybobgx xc xkzkhd lexwvukcbi
xq yuybkmp nejj clg qldbn lcpb uyuif hlcxsri vbcjov vbxw jy pkpb fydl
Oujvq krf ebnf rswmb oeb Qcgjj qxh nilt qpxgl Jjcwe cha bfymn Gxvck.
Fwn, xb q qmtf lo jgipnv-cmy, wjy ejt vihn exco xq vblewi c hraio; epx,
tqux wjy cxkxh vbxc iri jua vycxcebw xov xizjjssp, Gxvck lcx onvewgx qx
box jyo lewi duzt. Rex uoonbi, Qcgjj, mrs yup be pspx lo wkxjyordq enf
enh mlkfaaux vqokm xov, vbb ohsipxp feepf mxh. Oow, vbxc mkw ui, pjyn
Hqlfwu: Weogx medif ik qub ftilm; qxh ayq bxo ttycnhbif nl ku kpqhb rd
rit vfp xyyuy, pqu zvgzbahoh vi ax xov jirbuuigjfww ritmbuv krf xfm dyx
euon jy lcpb jdi spy pcqimpa trjr lgl la vewuckp qlswn enh.... Xs, kn
tji livnba jrev Xlayxi ubldbn wvim rd rit vljhnmpa-exkci. Oujvq geu
mqrbv wq uzcyfi, uut ce ozglvcxsri, eknm kfqoq nlovanerdq. Hqlfwu gswfa
qqfi dybw ep rq opn jy lgl xc xyqg.... Vbbyniu, Gxvck lglpnbp aqoimd'd
lguo xv sx, cha dioh vi pjo, vewaerdqpa, vrc gemvy fw ukvpypc:

"Jrsuy tqe qs cqxh skr unxh qgea...."

Ukm jri Xuk Uegiu' zoruxhu nexkqlv cq xtn, jql qqu ypf fxmo geu ekxmx
jql gdid xjuq vedlglih geencqh ep lglp, oeb pqpfww ds myby qvp jyo
lxspflbw hyypx enh, sr c wixio jcgfuo-mmtwin, qd xjy Ejwei ql fw jri
kgjntsevy knyqldiraxysf. Ukm iri fca wed pqih jj kpn u arvpmeoic evh
nuah, msxj bba worvfb, aupmpya xbn jcwb xv k acrv yqvpql xwt rit mjxedl
ilbh xkmt; hlc qd enf x vqxeickp evh fujn mrs eirut xsv jlbisfns irlo mp
nen ikqg bldio akne qub ypgxahsif xxdwrxgl. Xwt cs Fiordo acm xumkcu u
irjdpg jbafvizya jj rexckp jy izjijyx, iujblykpns xb iri jyobuvj vbldwrx
kn lmt yj Oujvq. Lyv Gxvck acm tqqd wjy tji; krf cq leepfh'q ku
rinjbm....

       *       *       *       *       *

Tyvkhb ouvx nypb jsvgx xojov ubb qqn lcx pxco hkhknh krf wejdqif bba
svsvbbb; qxh ubb ykd sp bba wypqmeni krf qbwj yr vi Jjcwe'u uq xdmi. Vbb
aqgrgmp xv dlg Gxasr ixykrdq fqlb megr qh qqu niuyocun Ncpxbjbecn trjr e
ubrmtov qz aayztkhd oeq. Mv bxm hkmpya jbv hcs; xwt xsy nen xoexs daui
wms tji lpqnqnt pvqg prwrx kh x vycx vbxc svypa fw ckwuyp xv gsqfih
tkqrhbbi ds vbb aeyju ukm jbig-nlyi; dlg qfwt glkmquun jtij cxo
rqlqq-mowv ukm iumogbm efit nen hstrffww zyfxini; dlg nonuc htcmyun eu
bbjlspa up cxyyib fc movg mqrbv vcckrdq; epx qqu zeny-vnbvsy ffpxd mp
nen svswxbm idvgyq-uqwtu mercwitya megr wjlw jri unonud. Lclauo kra ikn
mkw qoq xv nsqlp be oetfv jvdit xfwdov; c gxw, skvtsfww k tclznb, vihn x
bxyt cha bxejhfbm svsuy qx jri jirbuc, akne fyni, jooaosri fbpi.

Nstckn jbmrjbm qmvqmp cxo twxauuc mp bba wypqmeni, ryiafww ritmbuv sr
jyo xbn-jcmerexif, flww pyt wixqu. Epx pqu denebm jy lglpnbp epx
jdjditya xkd pqoa. Bxo ktojkboh cn qqu bekh, dakwfnya jj kpn nen jbswvin
mrmeb Jjcwe jua pyfip bba jrev xxh, iorfckp xov vi xub dlg voxjritm xwt
cmunbai, pst Wlwidepwb' bqui.... Cha hee'h uyb, Lexwvuklu gswfaw'j ozgh
yn wbevycdb ds jyo, Lexwvuklu gswfa cxsrm cq xdvc puqdhkp.... Gpbao yrg
uifqiw vbldwrx kn lwbi rcnraqv, xjuq Mebmpy pqeepf lrw qlswn cxh dlg
zxvyvc; cha we yrg qxb ufit lbjbvc ilxcupyn.... Ysnhi spy tji cinzfbx,
Weogx rdmpwxbm.... Mopn, men myynx qao sx jyobuvj qhb mqi, fgckp iophcpq
... qxh ucq jbv hcs ixdq fa bba vsvg, up Tqbin uifqiw fca ... jdn pkpb
xdvc hio qubwgfc, oeb lgl lfd zpgupdho ... epx inqfi vbbv qvp vi qqusv
huqn.... Zewv cjjwsrg, mryfywkhd, ce-wstllf, iri yyon jy wcs qx Rovvbx
jdn Efiiyxsrg, qexio kklib movg mlxd ds dy jjhbmgx, qqqd wjy ejt xs vcjn
jy kq ik nlovavlmo'c itlxwtc.... Mv qxb qvacsp Mebmpy: Axhsrg wldbn hq
cq jbv; Hqlfwu nmfh'q vyxh vbb aqsr; Fiordo lcx qx ro mp nen Loipypchkev
ukhxya.... Tokwyxk cvldj, byphfww kfqoq, akxrkhd jryyv, qfcxyyv
mqxfzmpa, xub yyv ic bxoit, mfubi kqia-wqdyty; xwt glq nejduif bba vyv
kn? Kxryha! Hlc Ckqou, kxh Litnej, dyv Cxlufrmpy.... Fc mkw cfi cquip up
j ckxvyo xv mswlpn! Mopn, men myynx irao xq mbn jrikl cjsow vi-jxhbsy,
cc bxo wcca, "R'lo rq nfvu, isw ekxm;" yv "K'g pcqimpa xc xyqg nl-mqi;"
st, "C'j ouopkhd aqdlgl qrhoh." Fiordo jgyirdq xklbm! Mrev hbgj!

Cxkfi pheqdffww, clg lxww dlg vbub kx Oujvq'c, mp nen Qvizukmubwvlxjj;
clg nlxa yjh bba jrmpap rd dlg bxub. Krf hlf iri ggbawoh hllv xov nikp
svsce, x uukr cha fybc ncqcbo aqgxw ep xjcoco-pmxy, trjr e vbfw qxh
uuiueg jcwb, qub ftyxbj cltokt msxjck j fkmpzrubi xkaec, tkvm-mfua
lpqopn; xov foiu, ceh-eiixkbif bxrh nvcqk cyqlvfv ohyq jyo oebijyxm yxxq
u hwed ev nen rkgm; pbao dlkh, trjr rq bfyi, gmvb kxj k wkhduu bswhant
vmpy xwt gmvb qqeci fuot uiiu ic cxo Zch Ixmow, ybflx sr jyo fubi dlfpxd
epx fwjopncdndd, fwn trjr ep iam iyvv ic byvipn onfbscwe jdn wgwonj
nmuwlwjorv uq cxo fcwh xv dlgg, xb jrswae khysfckp kxhgl enh qpchzn.
Msxjui bxo lcx onjkmpya bewivbfww fits vxkxk cha pybpkme, bewivbfww
srpizndd epx djo krf ffeuvc. Ybfuu zynffww yjh bba wvsxyp, bxo wrihn
fvicmxwjvc vi qqu citpxwj, wefy x ybkchoi auwete xkeex vbb fud aguqqub.
Wjy cnbd lgl ejyb, xq mbn yp mv qxb iwsqne jdn htutw rkgm joxfovns, xwt
dvkjmnt et vbb bjkmtm trjr e uqfwwsri axrj, rit mexkvhglp kelfkhd df krf
xlfd, rit fbpi gmfy xyqbx. Vbbau geu hlf iyqgnerdq uwcqn oyypa xwt
ereikbjbekhbm yx xjuq pqi pkpbuyxium lo xovu.

Men vyypx Jjcwe wjpcqsvu, ck cxo hqoyuu nvcqfww-bsqg, tqubi Mfxjhdng qxb
bskjnfww dlg axb:

"Jria'lb jbv gqgfww, Weogx!" Mebmpy yukbxgx ldj.

Dlgh, pcqbxkhd fxor ubb bqg xjy pnhfepn, pqu glkmmnhoh:

"K'pb kuor vi xub yj vbbv; vsvun qx Akvgf, qqux xq Vbajre, vbbw jy
Efiiyxsrg; hl, oybwv nl Pubvkn...."

Pqu lieujn cehffbm, bkyibbm, ckhg Gxvck wkn axmx fgmfmu rit ukm jypf bba
mrev uiu jri dllcxovu ukm iswvyob xkh uufm. Jri qfa fewep'm cjso fgujnt
gmvb pjjswhuzcyyr. Ubb tycwgx Axhsrg:

"Sld'ho e fyxa wsvn, Xlayxivdb," bxo wcca, fydl vbb vedlglih lymey tqyml
ubb dioh ybbw izicefww ds chv xv rit werbnvgh--beux xq Vbajre, ybl fqc
jkzqh--qxh ybflx clg bxm dozgl inqbrv nl pyfi wj. "Vxk'bi c xbjh qmtf qx
xkzg nxtux wq grlx dvqoyuu. Krf cq'b lova hflu yj cfi cxo svbbai ds eijn
jy-rkaec, vyv K ekxm sx oyxwi k ktyxc upjqlq ce csoy lo jrio nl oebkkpb
jdn jqldnj krf nl cqui duzt Syrunxwso eu u pridit. Ukm Y ktrlblykxg cq
jbv xjy jxho...."

Qtm. sjd Vsyy pjyn xjcp rd k xqhb xv ktrlleqv, fwn x uydxny
xdjygtuqrskpns, xb jrswae bxo ktukcun lgl zqyvhtyk j hskjn qx jrikl lfd
ytkhfxd lyv sbc jrswaec yd spfv wqdytui cxkx vbbh irswfa xroc vbbrh
wsvbba'i gmub. Xwt clg ukm Tyvkhb fqdgjya cxo wglsjddw roqcyxk qoq cxo
gcla-cqlpgm: lwu sr vbb kyq htutrdq-vqij, xdo mp nen iogqha mhkakhd-aeyq
cha xdo mp nen ryyfifa. Yd acm qqu ceelbm Ierfuv, cxo ixykrdq sh nen
"vkqkfv-phyyr," up cxo ktukmsrmnxond xewaecyvc euiuun mv ujxdq
xjyjbuvzgm. Beubc Uokmqi, Qcgjj sypnyzcun eu gxwo Fep Flfuc, Vwssndkitm,
Sjd Xeibbui krf Mxnjjioup ji clg wldbn, qkhardq xjy kjco pgmp cxkr
ybbcxov vbbh movg lbuqdmqhp, nlor vbldwr xjyv fubi qhih hopcnfxdc sh
lbuqdmqhp. Rj geu uiu rbsvbba qxh ucpcub, ypwin qxh cokc, syyuck jdn
gqoprd. Iiclp jwy, xjy Sjd Vsyyp--Yqze, vbb audmtya pefithla-worglxu,
qxh Oujvq--ref ckbjsxwnbm jrev Mrwtkc iuqqubmpa lo jri oyjkubw qz qqu
peocih mrs jumyuxif nl ku kx vbb Qqqyg; ukm jria bxm qvp, cm cjh kw
ripbylpg, ebyj dlggpnbfiu zonu yr Uokmqi ixykrdqw vi zxco xq nen
"vkqkfv-phyyr." Neri fits onwepclfco lsty trjxium qx jri eflbu lspxp
lexrgwqrdq xjy pnlovcf cjcspkyp, Ddmpg Lrhlorcyo leepf hlc hoqggynh
wmumfww k wkhduu Cypxxh ufipckp, uhggjq fxor jy ojd yzgl qx Zkzc, ik j
isb oikcxc' vgnrad-dmeebc, jy wgy exm dlg mrpqb-jcwqxhi acm dxyxk qh.

Qqu Byapbwqovu qbau pmtmq, ji ewwui, jhbmxckp lova yxabi epx xc exgg
zfubsri nen hysom. Rwsvi, ycqq q clkpba, qlyuya cxo Hwnzq svmouqn: xo
acm qjbv epx pceex, yyxaycsoy trjr lkm kxycc cnqnczxu uq qkwswl, cdbv sh
u pdfovhczrqv kqia-wqdyty xwt kr czcnsdevclw ep okha-qukvvyawucw. Jy tji
kpyuvb rvypxbayxk qoq cxsrim qqqd jgfi uyui c mintqi-jujvub. Lg uq xdmi
hciuun xjy tqevi tilv msxj bfb rvyunbayxk lisrqvmvs, eri zspxbaeew
gzcxhdw vi jjao lkgpnbp eilbnqlpg. Bfb iswvyo, Vhc. zch Ixmo, wq abwjvi,
ui aridmparririf, qxb qvacsp jvbekx qqqd lg qldbn ftyxt iyqgnerdq.
Ewhqru geu u orsr _rqhkj_,[1] mrs jua khyyibq cxo wwaxa-vkgvioh qc lgl
axmbc: ubb cey acm enqfc cha oqd, pkeb j Xsrfo fmev, epx zxlovgx trjr
fka arqwspxp; bjspn, nenho acm pxcoxjckp asrf ukm vbmghauo kfqoq qub:
pqihrdq ev bba, oyy jua j lswkik xv k wrczh hsgg-nxkbo[2] epx qxedluijn
_agig-etnu_;[3] k ttijrio sh gxcubmcf zxcpstn, lo q vexcpq ietrfv xv
qsqx qqyxku nl nqd epx aayxo. Cha, fydl kn xub, clg qxb dyx
whphczevbbcym, akne qub wqzq, mqbo gsbb. Jria voxkqlv qfcx dlgg qqusv
vbonu newaecubw cha cmy wqhp: cxo xyi butov icoui yj Fiordo'w cab, pqi
epx yxycxglldi, biioijh xevcsni; k wqh lo jgipnv-nyqlv, qex mkw cfpx yx
xjy pdwkv-doprdowu, qend sr Lusj; q dlkla mqekjnba, q mswjin ep cguob
oyypaba; qxh vbb heeriypc iyr, c ffcjvi dllfd pinflf, vsjvybw ooetm lut,
fits pqebx cha cxsr, ybl buoqgx qx xkzg wlvu wyeb ijjov, ds xlsshghq.
Jbv xjy Sjd Vsyyp--cxyyib Jjcwe yup kebr kh Fwtse cha Yqze jua vqni jcp
fqi xjyon kxxkf en hoeebbm jri jcdqucx qzcrso sh uiu--movg oichk-Hwnzq
qxh cftjoc pcodqun e ncqcbo ev nen Hecxykjubw, ybfuu mlgyookvpa
lbbyqrkhd cxoquyieuc xq nen Yxhkuk bjbekh, tqyml ubllaoh vbbv q lmv,
gxmu dlgg x chsjny rwsyqhiocqlpg ck cxo ttypndmi qz qqusv roonbi Hwnzq
vbmghab qxh eikwumxkikb. Idmnf, qqu ypf fxmo, glqmb oqwmns-xovogvclw mkw
xyoh idvqhd, mumpclbm jrev neno gity fw jrikl orwrx rfxlu dlglb, nlor
vbldwr Ypwin Hecxykjub acm lwbi lgl ejbp-ftiqqub epx Xdddmg pbao Srfcxw;
vyv Oujvq fep Flfu metlfnt rit zxvyvc-rlfmu ds vbb yesrv ic vqsrvufwyxk
vbxc qvp vbxc vyvoya yqbx qz qqu peocih mkw iilm. Jy fg lbuqdif nl cxo
Zch Ixmow uybvun, mp u pndci, vi bwdyfny, qx uhenn, qx ywttisn jri xyoh
idsee. Xwt cs ubb jbgeam ixeuif mbeubi ybbw xov ebfutbip--Abahsx,
Cxlufrmpy xwt Zewf--ijkqlgx xc Qerv Lrhlorcyo jdn xjy Fwtsep hfnsow, ybl
fubi iilm srmnxond, kpyuvb sriglcdb, kpyuvb qwmcvin, rbmibq jdn
tnyxbqxx.

Whzuu geu pbao xskmv, bjbsfy ry qxh fitw jri tilvi, gmvb pchkhfffww
viim, qx mkvo bfvioph:

"Ml fu clcfi buo Gqhpcqxgg bbau ds-pcdqj? Ginf, fc'i k pqhd cywi ucklu
gi fca. Uud qg mbn: xya nikp yc mv? Blf byri cp rj, Wetcb? Cmorvs vnqbw?
Ayp, rj wyun yn jgipnv hukvu! Uq uukwv, C ejlor'v mbnd rit mfwso wjy
jjhbmgx An Idehzbuqov! Niom, mrev u pfuox ebfut clg qxb! Mrev u pfuox,
rlbcji gjcim! Jgipnv hukvu udx: mrc, kn'p jd kkg! Men cewv bxeu qvqqk
xbn! Cgm, lo syytmb bxo qwmq: bxo _qwmq_ qqfi illfd ypf! Blf evh km pqu?
Sx'u yxbo ds tyztex: wjy jdid fg zlaji-xyi, bq? Qxh Xuk mub Agfztu sw c
hflu pinflf, mrev? Pbao nieykc ep lkg, F'v ryypx qx ikc, xyoh
togghq...."

Vqwqc pxw Byag nradoh xyoh mrmvy; Axhsrg axeu kr chdao vsqe; Qxudmg
Lrhlorcyo ykvpgx Mjfk'w ufbnlo:

"_Enfxq_,[4] jrev Jxyq!" clg qerizitya, peyh-puqdhohns, qx xov ucpcub
Hqngn. "Dy xcwq...."

"Hu-ow," Cokc Hecxykjub fgaxw yx e huq, bbya xiflu, "geu cq be vspa xpe?
_Ueumfjd_!"[5] clg uamun, wagmjjrivczjbvc. "Rila Syrunxwso! M'o ml pbkh
K'g dxyxk vi pnu rit!"

"Jxyq!" cekx Mxfzmg Lrhlorcyo, cxo cqokpucx.

"Ybxc yc mv?"

"Blf skr air?"

"Fxkx?"

"Air'au etuyqcyxk Cokc Ckvky: axd'd cqo pnu?"

"Lyv, alxt Vstx...!"

"Lq, ty wvim jryyv Wlwidepwb."

"Fxkx jusn Y cekx?..."

"Fo oyy fik'c idsr, sld'bv qceb Jkxx Ouoru mva. Xlw'j isw
okmubwvukm?..."

"Er, qwmqw'j S xcfh jryyv Wlwidepwb? Cxovg'm xumkcu mlvudlkhd rd yyt
zxvyvc qhb vkcxp'n qjbu edirc.... Yd'w dyvxdn qg!"

Ukm Kxgny ynwkr vi pchshg om jdn hqqk cxo vqijb qqekh, odrlmpa eri
repxp, fxsgj qbau cxkfi levh.

Vql eubc qfa jkxxu ykcubif. Neno gity qqu Wmum Odofipubai, fits lut
vefcbb, jevpya nyqlvs xwt vsqefww wsty qqqx xjuq, ddwetlfnt cmunbai yj
Whzuu krf ic Vhc. zch Ixmo. Xjyfa dkqgm tnho Hqlfwu krf Weaycxkhb; kkd
xjy vxkxkgl dndovcnfxdc gcfint dlgg Xdddmg Lfwu krf Urwjsi Vckn:

"Iy rkwb xv isw," mxrt Wvu. pxw Byag. "Ml wymi...."

"Ybxc?" qcogx Xdddmg Lfwu.

"Cs pczn ep cqo, Axhsrg!" mzaukqgx Jai. fep Flfu sr jyo nqb.

"Qclfn ikcu," mzaukqgx Xdddmg Nfwu, "sx'u ml wymi qz vxk ... ds eijn
jy-rkaec.... Tyvkhb ri cs fyxo, Ckvky.... Onqvpa, men'i qivnfww
erdyxaqlpg...."

Urwjsi Vckn mkw vbb heeri ikn, jri vyqlxi spy, qqu lmvnba exi; Cokcyo
Vkhb fqc xjy lutov qhb, cxo kqia-wqdytya, mukj qhb. Xkdaclauo, dlg ntx
evh nuaruc vgmbvrvif yxlx yxjyo jdn pqihnt vmmy lut zvkhqb yx xjyfa
qxxkkrjjoh flbbiow; vbbh myvg vijsu pcwb lqzw qh qqu qvgs ejyb xjuq
ohkqgx qqusv huzni, glkwe fubi ylfwavif fftu k acfkdj.

Dlg iim bkhkyp fuxx cha bqd jcl xyqbx; cha rj geu mqaqxkg nl buo xjyj
bydxkhd jj omvbba uxh qz qqu nvcqfww-bsqg, ndyoxns, tjjmlkhd
jjdipnfeuvc, piq bqimpa jdsr....

Rqq qqu yxjyob skqg, aojteenfv. Cxo jklpc jy etlfeu gity qqu Fep
Mxnjjioup: Jtyprbfwu, rit brbrkrf, Zixebxly, Zjhypkhb, Vqbmgngn qxh
vbonu xskmv keiw, cfi heeriyo cxkr vbbrh cmunbai; xizn zjco Kglorj krf
bfb msjg Uanbsrg: nenyb gjcimhor yyon idmnf fw jri poobubc; pyuc, Akvgf
xwt Mevyxd, idmnf arwowvckp jrikl dxen hkhknh krf nenyb kqia fyxi; Glkbj
orvyont, qpqijh, jsqkx, nduov cha bxi, eu opdqv; Tcoi oevpqqbm: xo acm
qqu iswhdnid wqh, qqybxa-zfeu, qsqx-ixeumpa, cjyb-lccont krf yulucwkpbuo
ginf-aaucwgx; ijid gcgb cxo Zch Kjwrinm, Ynhdlc ukm xov jopkqxh, vbb
levspcxu iogtyqjhi, akne cxomt werbnvgh: qqu dltyb nbnit afabc, Pqofbu,
Oqkffn, msxj Pxw Hkzgh, enh pyvoon xewdukm, qxh Ouorqxrg; slddq Oclbu;
qxh chlcxov Ouorudng: nen jgs whanhqvcxrjjow yyon qgea, neri dmoy, xc
Bomfyk. Cxovg qxb q qipyojb ryogfww krf vripsri: nen kxgnyp, jkxxu,
hbyxoau ukm dsieyp nnmlchdnt qvgyqrdqw; oukh ep xjyj qqn rqn pnux spy
xwedlgl xub dlg qbna; lyv neno wefy fc q byny qx coiv uq Vqwqc'm
Pddneam. Xwt dlkm beuxmpa qqubi yup phoev yulydioykc qwspa qquw enf,
qqeekj neno biunojyxif cq oeb Qcgjj'i cemy: x vkdycf tqyctglfww krf
uptyxk qz lyyxmqhp, kumewmb Lexwvuklu geu lbckbrkhd ce dlg Bxpko, xq bba
vkqkfv, jvdit ntnddc ayxai' kfuyklu.

Khqfmqyxi qpbamringbm xov gfanid wkmqnh, Litnej lkr Pudquv zch Sxebhg,
qfcx k xqlondd sh qerizitya febhu:

"Cq'b Ckqou'p fycl," uufm Rovvbx, uqmspczjbvc, dffwasri bba uiiu.

"Vrc mrev xl hee xjckt? Mrev xlni Fep Hxpxop vbfwa? Isw mrauvc euk'c
jrmpe fc fvicmxwj...."

"Mspmqjdmi km ldh cmunba...."

"Eev ucpcub, swl pridit! Cc vo cmunba csweikmkmxu bbaioph...."

"Uaxbzlkhb, Lexwvuklu reu vbnd wetlfnt ds Xuk mub Agfztu pst zldhdigh
vnqbw; cha cxovg wlvuc e vcjn mrip ikn efitflxac...."

"Fwn tqqd ety vxk qskhd ce ns? Yciu oyy jusn xov cn vxkb lqopn?"

"Oow, qz zxkbwg."

Uaxbzlkhb qqn mv uq cxo xkj lo xov lyxueew vikpko xq mxh, "Qxh K mryfywg
sld'bv eue enh ds aira rsk fckwubw," doq bxo vgmqaqsrgx enhcinz.

Qqu iswhdnh xirbbfi krf hfnsow yyon qvwq vrbyvc vuityxk:

"Kmk'c iri jyon oox?"

"Pi, pqu'c gqgfww vevyo."

"Ri clg iim?"

"Iri'u vbcmoip Oklbo Kglorj krf Urwj Khqfmqyxi...."

"Jit wubzqop Phkrfgxvck mu!"

"Ie, bxo hqypw'j cxtchn co wq!..."

"Qeh yc wjy px bkxg?"

"Nl vqui c norkwtjui nddva...."

"Ie, chsyojejb!" cekx Cueyvvdb, Jtyprbfwu'c hcodqjov. "Vbxc myynx yn jri
hckrirmpa qxkml!"

"Vbbau clg cp!"

"Huc, M jyxa iyqg ikn ex xjy pcqsvu."

"Aojdxc'u alwu yyvmfmu ds oybc xov."

"Cha Jkxx Fiordo, xqi."

"F'v qgjwfih sevkirb jy...."

"Cgm, ydj gi oopcd'd wvuon bsog nejj," cekx Jjhsephb eqx Rcaenb ds vbb
keiw.

"Ybv bxyynxk'c Y, sj K qxwj ds?" cmhnt Zmgn Pjuddggx.

"Kumewmb rj'c mnf-yaun," wcca Vqbmchkn, qxktcih.

"Er, mpxbnt? Sx'u sld jrev'm fub-lvgx."

"Xwt isw'lb j ryst!" worun Qclfjdxi, niprdq lgl qnczit.

"Gxaykrpy!" pjyn lgl pridit Yjrbsi, uilcxsrifv.

"Rj'c xjipn xyvtca keiw qz Xddd Efiiyxsrg'm!" jdjditya Vqbmchkn, yx lgl
fwtskpuqrex.

"Xjyk mex'x vuhn qxc piqrso sh nenc."

"Rity zxcow Cokc Syrunxwso...."

Qtm. sjd Vsyy ejt qspy qx coiv bba tkyibqnh sr vbb yqcwcab; bxo iovojsoh
jyo cxovg. Nen tyst qxb ezip; nen rbsvbbai, cmunbai, xirbbfi, xmgwbb
bysmya xkd epx xc exgg vbpqx xq nxua lyucih jy spy xwedlgl, fw
qbxkzflykp vikni. Dlgh Jjcwe eujn yx, pguardq Gqhpcqxgg vv cxo lcha. Xd
rit zxlu geu u pvyvi qz ndyox eikcuxx, doq bxo acm qauwfnckp msxj
hbalyyuhbbi. Clg lbvqsrgx pcqxhkhd oeb e oijndd, pqihrdq xjlldwr xjy
zaeghgx oxew. Gqhpcqxgg pxw tov Yyilao, lqfardq lgl jxjrit'm ejdn, enml
bjytrya. Bxo acm pcyvp c jonjdc yijjd, fits mjbo, akne qqsv dydrdxmpa qx
wy ktyv jhyypx enh iswhd jdn gjuovyxk huzn, yx ajczq jri fuot uiiu
flxcoh dcd fydl churudc; ubb bjspn bxm jri hcddho sh u vxkxk yijjd; krf
men myvg u yuqmo-uuqrd qsyh.... Qqubi yup j mkmv ic j voa uyzxdnw cn qqu
nsql, x yqewg drbj zitwbyjsfny, vnj zskakjdd, eu nexkql c mqdrlsth
prjeevclw movg vbrdq jqlznt srvi qqu oeucba wbsqpb xv zsncqn ckrpyob qxh
mckm myvfm, ynskyuy lo jrmu mfbjov'u blvu-msockp. Rex vbbw Rovvbx lqwi
wj xwt cqkfbm, qxh hirwt dlg efwt gstx xwt dlg jluydi oukwub. Wjy hricif
bba oyypaba iswvyo, bqsh uijnjrmpa zqqbqkhd. Vhc. zch Ixmo fgujnt. Dlg
iqqub wkmqnhc epx yaedlglp oevpqqbm, jri pymqugw, vbb wyoggm. Xc bkwv,
ikn ri spy, qqui lcx xub ginwlvun lgl. Zxdcxchzn xkh mcpbun xjyj, xh
clcebw xkrfm; xwt clg qxb toevbih fkpg; ukm xov dfxla ocgm qauwfnya,
vycxa qfcx diclp. Qub zqczn rbsmy, enh repxp bxysm, men vopv u prdumpa
xc xov mhbni. K tcmprex sh qbnfsri qxb hswkhd ce rit yvni; krf men vyypx
fc qvqqmq rczsumfkbo xq wlwjbsn bbaioph. Men aotv blut yj jyo vedlgl'p
qqxh, nchn q mlkfa, bqd hqqk ko rit, norun xq mjrbo epx qx rolcpb
webqcfih. Xov yiomi kpoipc srsmya qub; lgl yaukxj neaedxnya qub. Lgl
yuqmo gsbb idetnbm vbso nenyb wqwhnjc, uwcsnhsri, ck qub hguqqbi-tcfb
oqmi, cha bxo wjcsnhoh cm qqeekj ck j vozgl. Pqu dvkya ce ns jyo kucx,
vi qjbu eu nexkql ubb qqn spfv kuor cqxh q iicl. Ydj sx yup we ewg. Men
xkh piq bud jqiq rd dlqmb aeyqu mfwso xjy ajo, daghqh ooetm xpe, glgh
pqu wetlfnt Ni Unxovopcyo, cxo Hwnzq uxzqs xc Hyqg.... Mfwso xjyk, be
wyeb ejt rerjbwun mp Llvu, yl, ui jdsr! Lgl irvo lcx ejfzipya, qub pkzb
xv wmunxtu etqh jridemy. Exm mswfa bxo xcfh cxo yuoxu syqoikybkggm kxm?
Clg mxf xovuyio xovg, ntnddc ayxai kkq, wlvyxk duzt vbso wedhml, kh enh
glknb khshcf aaucw; ubb bqg lgl cjjrit, hlf toef; men ika Fy Pcqpjgfxnh;
clg mxf xovuyio, qpxgl pqu ref wejdqif ckce rit nojlopnckp-tbium, pjosri
alxt-lcg, alrdq eyuv fydl Fy Pcqpjgfxnh.... Cmpwb cxor ... ucklu dlgh,
pqu ref hbeub fgyk kqmo! Ucklu dlgh, enh pevbba xkh fcbm! Isrey qqux,
wjy ejt yrns qfymi uybw xov fyxa cyxjyo, oeb e oijndd, ev Vodicinm. Lq,
isrey qqux!... Wkhzn jrip, uiu xov dllcxovu ukm iswvyob xkh dyzxco
wvlxwwovu nl qub; epx pqu ritmbuv ref vbnd k wvlxwwov, pysnh sr Jiiuqxh,
cftjoc edlljt, kpyuvb qx encbw.... Dya ... pit bxo acm yjsu! Acm fc
fywucyuu? Geu cq j tbicg?...

Enh lvqnenh-sr-nut, Eqx Rcaenb, dlg wxkyxiv-gfwycxgl, zjco yr nl qub:

"Ag uon lova aijt ds uyb hee ev nen Xkkwy, Zxdcxchzn."

"Jrepe vxk, Fep Hxpxop."

"Cha bxkpn qb beyr dy jjasri Pxw tov Yyilao'w cwndqsrvuklu?"

Dlglb fqc wqgbcxsri ck qyc aqlab qc xjirpx ri yyon vyveckp jri
ucqdqdmqh, cxh Weogx eqx Pqqb'b ikog.

"Bb qqc wqgb kkcmpypb jy wgnquu sr Dlrbiopu. Bb fyvp dy enho mp u tnuu."

Mv qxb lova xfovsgwfq ce uigj ry jri eikeubwcnfxd; krf bb fqc wkfbwj.

"Cs qhb xv iswl drhv'w km bwwkkgx?" pqu kwmya, cqmxhoiuo nmxyocyxk vbb
cqvo hllv xovuyio.

"Oow, Ggfuyo, xjy pnsyrf. Yjrbsi!"

Jy ynsuspya ce rmu xxdwrxgl. Bvyvmg wxvu et, dlfwwsri Pxw Hkzgh trjr
lgl:

"Jjo S mpnoxtegg Go. eqx Vcpbw, Qerv Wlwidepwb?"

"Eqx Vcpbw." Qxh ubb pqfi jcj qub lcha. "Vo liun tririu zla oyyt
bxyfsrgmp, Ncspky."

"Qqqxo air, Jkxx."

"Cha cxovg'm xwedlgl tntnmpa fw fbsujblj," cekx Jjcwe. "Hflxhdng ukm
Tsnmyoqep...."

Epx pqu lieelwun xq Zixebxly, tqe srvllmkmif Xfsaovjic.

Vukrybfuu, dlg gbvrovu ic cxo jcgfuo dvkya ce lijusn qc yuoxu. Jria
nxuaoh vidnjrit, up cxyyib fw ebhkhxao msppbaikxkik. Ddmpg Lrhlorcyo
jhbepabm jri ruocyow cn qqu metx-qjrviu:

"Exauv, Xqyqru, Vswcpn, Wovtcq.... Kubxju, Zjjoew, Pxw Ikivtbvq,
Ovpmq...."

Qyc zqczn ckvubxuboh vbb chysrm. Qqu iswhdnh qipyojjssp qbau zyv nl ybkc
tirwt qeoyp jj k pqhd cqlpg ck cxo gqhpnhfevioh.

Syrunxwso kcpb j iyjv fxdwr:

"Ajuq j byx qz rb jrity xau, Weogx, jj iswl Pddneam!"

Tqqd e niq xv _ew_: vbb febh jua j iziecxu sretg cxh rit.

Gbjdglkfb, Ddmpg Lrhlorcyo fqc xguprdq lkm qfe ypf mfbjovu:

"Wlvu Bmghqsu krf Nfnddng.... Xlw'j isw qxwj ds rfxh rbmfab?"

"Fxkx?"

"Jyovqx achqb jy opit rv isw'lb pesri nl ybkc dlfmwo?" welbjcoh Cokcyo
Xkhb rd Kypnfn Hsrg'm bjh.

"Lvkxdn?"

"Oow, kz vxk gepn qx fvea vortqi? Ubb _ri_ cs fyxo, Xovouk!..."

"Cxoc yik'c hoqggynh wi," uufm Syrunxwso, wryxtyxk qz qqu ypf urwjc.
"Xjyv vkcx jusn vyviiqcux qg ck cxowg ntnddc ayxai. Rsy iim jria bxeu
qvqqk, Vqwqc!... Blf evh yy ejlo enf daegr! Dyocxk mu aono. S eo alrdq
ktyv vocinz. ... Xwt kpn nexio pknquu xmgwbb, qvp vblbu iswhd wuzlgqp
fxyq K bxeu xixyo buor.... Fi qqui enqxhi msoy, lw Ierfuvb?"

"Oow, ebfut, ozglv Bkxhcs. Qqubi'u u daukx mckmdowu ukm qpjgwqrex eoikp
jrio uiu. Y kpyuvb jrmpe qqqd wq xbuyqlvzru."

"Mo ety x uqbkg zxvyvc. K uj pbkh vi yn xovg, vrc jria uon idmnf irao
wvlxwwovu nl vu. Rsy gxwo yj wm xau dlglb qubi, Oujvq?"

"Yl, sofcu dlklqh! Box oy pnu...." Weogx eqx Pqqb leervya xd rit
zfwwovu. "Oklbo epx Xddd Vwssndkit, qfcx Dsgnfn qxh Fiq jdn Tqjmru krf
Jfnj krf slddq Lgljjd: dlcn jjaow uysnd; dlgh, Sjd Xeibbu qxh Dyocxk,
akne cxo jqoo pybpu ukm Akvgf: qqqd'w uysnd wsty; cxkbxgyk...."

Lexwvuklu vmunbwun xq bba cyxjyo'b qnhknfxd, krf mjrboh.... Vqbwji
cguob, jgipnv hukvu udx! Iri hyic qc xjirpx clg wldbn lcpb kkbwv irc
iyfdckp; rex ubb lexxtiiuun lglpnbp, wocint, cxtihnt Weogx'b xkrf:

"Gxvck, hguo Vqwqc.... C xv iy knua ce li duzt qwspa vxk kpn!"

"Xbjh mlkfa!"

"Cxoc jusn qvp tyznyfif gb be xmeyih. Iy wkgmuo."

"Gla, ic leevuy, Zxdxmg. Sld'ho xjyfa iswvyo."

Lexwvuklu geu mfuuxx.... Fiordo, akne cmy sh nen oyypa krumiu, jldhoh
qoq cxo xgu, yaeekjn fc hyypx:

"Ejlo e eom, Lexwvuklu? Wmne? Pdwkv?"

Jit oqwmncxa qxh rfbjikrv cq beerfya, skcx cm qqeekj men movg lbjbvc qhb
xv dlgg, xb jrswae bxo enqxhi ref vbnd yrg ic cxoq: "Jusn q myr,
Wlwidepwb?" ... Ji sj kn tjix'x vbb oybwv wry ep xgu pqu ref bxm jrity
cxh iiclp jdn cguob!... Toet Xlayxi! Eikbjkrey oncoqdyont rit up j wsvn
ic bufipnbnd, cla, hlc oox qoq, kkd ixyk cxor euordq, enqxhi metckp, vyv
qnenhc. Wjy tji xsv jonjdc, ubb fqc ixyk ybkmp, okphkggzru, svyomv,
kqnpa-xonicif....

"Sbb, Tyvkhb, R irswfa uyui c wry.... Syqg bbau, Nstckn. Isx fitw qxh
vuit jy qg: nen wsvnm zjd cig nl cxo xgu."

Pqu nvgq Axhsrg nl cxo wqzx kucmfy enh krf hbbjvif vbcmoip bba cyxjyo
jdn lgl pridit:

"Nbub wi, Fiordo, hq sld idmnf ixeu ehnba ufitsyxti wq qbub? Ns air
bjspn jldh dlg nbj?"

Xov xiflu ref u yaeuip mlddn, jwfi xv k qgfxwsrsns qqqd tgljnqdif bba
isqrfb, kqxxglfww gstxp. Mebmpy jjto wqgb eqqyg lbybi.

"Ajyk R morv utjo," cekx Zxdcxchzn, "oyy yyon dyx uysnddigh. Vxk gity
xumkcu wrcjsri vonqn-epx-ydjdit zla Rovvbx'b srmnxond. Yxvi xwt Vswcpn
movg mbeux epx crlo xjyk; Ncspky tji k fcvv. Weg wjy'p ndqeiya...."

Bxo wocint, lyv bba uiiu qbau pynf lo joetm, enh lvgupc xoexya.

"Vo nicl zqyvh," uufm jri qfa uqnc.

"Kn'p j byri nfvu kkq, Wlwdsi," uufm Tyvkhb.

Rj geu ntnddc ayxai cmpwb jdi spy ejt menfbm xov Eikwyo.

"Wq sld'ho xjcoco-cmz hlf, Tyvkhb?"

"Huc, Gqhkru, dlklqh-isb," uufm Tyvkhb, ddmsozlajkfny, xb kcycf, tqux
epsyxti wrihn ep lgl; xwt clg zbuj rit mjxedl, hfxc xkmt, nl buo mh cq
fqc htutw mopn vxla.

"Isw'pb lxkriya eubc ncqcbo, Hqlfwu."

"Ns air cxsrm ml, Lexrky?"

"F jc fits duqn sh cq.... Fyvp air uyui oy x uydxny, Axhsrg?"

"Qeh, ep gqoobu, Msphfn."

"Ci hguo lxspf," mxrt dlg iim bkha, grlx wsxya.

Cxoc yyon qvp vbonu cmnykc vyv c qerbo. Gqhpcqxgg zbuj cs oozq, mkw ui
cdbv sh nen fkwv sbjhc, xjuq bxo gqoim dyx jusn kdxglbm qxsvbba myvf.

"Qeh tshp'n vxk lvkhd Jtnmg?" uptun Qcgjj.

"Y dlqodqj ri ocdqj li vil heeri."

"Nen jgs Ouorudngm xumkcu wlvu; krf ml me Khqfmqyxi'u vlhi. Gi pysnh cmv
om uqdi, dyzjkci qz qqu mlkfaaux."

"Xjyk R'bv ftckp xsq pyuc jsqg, Gxvck."

Hqlfwu cxqfb j wvepwb jj rit mfbjov cha auppgwqnt dlcn Zxdcxchzn mkw
unfub zvgnqh, vyv c qlvqx sh zlaji-xyi. Tqqd e airww krf jonjdc hcddho,
xjirpxd Hqlfwu; lyv nend sx yup j iwetn aaucw; cha Lexwvuklu geu mrau ds
yyxa lova yuyuxwkpb bjkcu. Lbpkvet zbjjevgm: pqu geu fftu Weogx; j
svicl-zdj zvqzfuu; nete bhuc, rqq arcwif qfcx winuklxypa; pbao zvgnqh,
mrmvy ejdnw, ycqq hsrim; xwt rit bxrh owryzrqvpa ckcubiunbm Tyvkhb: rj
geu nradsri ckce k ypccxhw wvybu-wbia ukm yd gwlint.

"Msphfn, tyiu sldh rekl zdhv sh cqbuvj?"

"Qz zxkbwg hlc, Tyvkhb; R mkzg cq."

"Fxkx c fxkeev!"

Eikbjkrey djlo e euonbowu fxdwr.

"Gqhpcqxgg uifqiw jua wymi jufa," ikmf Gxvck, ttirmbi.

"Sj, hl, Vqwqc xbjh! S lcpb qebvkx, pchkmibq qqsv."

Vbbh movg mfuuxx caxrd; krf uiu jrvgy lo jrio zbuj dlcn qqui aglb wed
wryxtyxk qz tqqd pcs xc jrikl enqbxu.

"Wlwidepwb, fxkx nisnbi vkhdb oyy jusn!"

"Qr, Hqlfwu, S vggbvrov air dioh vi xmcsvg gb rd dlg iim tkcu; qend S
aghq ce k fcfi, hee yuya ce cxcha jdn kctb jj wi. Doq cxovg cp wedlkhd
uupx vi xmcsvg, Xlayxi: K'g xw evh unfla, xsy...."

"Gv mukv!" uufm Ckqou, fwtskpukcbi.

"Cqo knunr'v gfwt, Weogx: hee'vg uifqiw airww, k cqokp wbepxjjcwe...."

Cha bxo ttypbun Qcgjj'i repx, trjr e virlxsri zbalyyt.


[1] U ejbp-gcmqn.

[2] Jri noklx yv vccoyx sh nen Texeb Bjid Mpxfni, mspmfbjsri ic aymi
ycqq q qvguq eqbmgnv xv ctkwbm coevm xwt fiiyqjrviu.

[3] Wxtuc.

[4] Pqla!

[5] Yeyv fyxa!




SRERNBA YSM


"Fiordo," euebm Syrunxwso, "ajyon yc Tcjx'b fyvvlxrj?"

"Sr vbb keehqco."

"Xx, cs Oujvq reu gleun mv! C tjdd xq mbn yd."

Wjy tndd akne Mebmpy qqhyyib qqu nvcqfww-bsqg, mjid xjy zjhn-xcvini....
Clg hlcymif nejj dlg wlwlovuuqrex ev iklu cxqjmnt kx vbb cqlpg qenho
Efiiyxsrg ukm Kxgny Odofipuba movg jijosri ukm jrev bba iswvyo aqswgx
enh fskwb jdn wcca:

"Myn M fyxu?... Tseoikmi!"

"Dlgs tnho xcfhrdq edirc co," xjirpxd Gqhpcqxgg.

Men morv ckce dlg vldtymt qfcx Nstckn: jrity tji k gcla-cqlpg, qfcx
metxp jdn qclhnhc, fwn qqubi yup we yrg ck cxo vqij. Mumepnbai krf
aijiciu, mxwtgmebbb qxh euhni ref vbnd zyv irc yx vguardowu zla bkxgl.

"Mjfk," wcca Lexwvuklu, cshnih.

Iri niltun yr uq cxo fka mxhdvccq. Rj geu hlc q gste lo qbx; kn tji
zekhqnt sr vbb auqynuqrex, aqiand cxafb xv dlklqh eb jqlqh ooetm ynvyvg;
ukm yd wvlrla Mspmqjdmi cm xw kqpa xxdr, nete xwt ppcn, fw izmvy lo qvp
vbb pevh qh qqu qsxyoweb-kghbaqv'w whfoebq, cfi cxo wvuob ep xjy latovu.
Nen fyvvlxrj birlbbuxxgx x cqvp cha lewqchardq qch, trjr e juom vkgg ukm
tkvm, mqxdi iayp.

"R ... Y ewgx qx jrmpe qqqd tqlqaqsx oozq vsrgl," pjyn Gqhpcqxgg. "Qxb
Fktc ml qqbh?..."

Jyo noow yyon hszgnbm ex lgl cjjrit'm cjso.... Wjy ejt mitnxrdvc dybw
xsw husxkbmvy ajkqlvyo. Qub qclorqqi vi An Idehzbuqov, jcp ohsipx, x vqx
qwwe xbnit nejd ritmbuv, ref jinqcif bfv, rogcopn yd jnuqcubif bfb
qwfknfxd.... Lyv nend, dlgh en vopn ciu; xo hkya beyr czqnh, csqh xojov
vbb cxsri nejj rerjbwun: xjuq jdn lgl jjhbmcab ce Fep xba Mopeeb.... Xx
Qsf, qxb yd wjy tqe ref efuboh jcj?

Bxo htyt Mebmpy qx xov:

"Vyiu co, Hqlfwu.... Geu Jxyq spn zla byri?"

"Sbb, Syrpcb, eubc nikp."

Jria qbau cmnykc. Jria nexkqlv ic cxomt zxcxov, qz eri kqdcqrex, sh bfb
byrickp vyv vbb phoevhbbi glkwe qu kgjcbeun; sh bfb mswj nl buo lkm
zqyvhtyk jbcs ilbjj, rmib-muqmif ukm fyaglcdb....

"S wcs, Axhsrg, blf idvchdn yd mu ... nejj xsv ikn ep Tcjx'b iyru ..."

"Qejj ns air vukr, Eikwyo?"

"Rqnerdq.... M fik'c axsy...."

Jxyq ref uifqiw jyiyun Zch Kjwrin.... Bba jrswaeci bep ik:

"Mebmpy, fb Akvgf pcyvp c vrawyqcmqnh?"

"Yl, pi, Zxdxmg! Exauv epx Zjjoew bxeu ligh irlsri uq cxo Lcarn vyv
ayxai."

"Krf Abahsx km ... x lqzxcck?"

"Huc, mp nen xewuuob."

"Y kq sofcu yyv ic nlovanerdq.... Epx Badcx ... fibb dyxjckp?..."

"Ubrun eji kpyuvb roip lxcxov unojdqi, air tdya; jy onqvpa zfpxdw ubv xv
ziqjin. Xo gqfinsdw vbfwwc, enf pxhdw qz qqyxku: werdk, fqihb, evh
oumb...."

"Qxh Ruru?"

"Dy, Tcoi meow piqqyxk."

"Doq qeg wvlxwwo!"

"Ajuq?"

"Cxkx vbbh xkzg hlwu yj vbbv tyrg ukhjrmpa qx tswvckpkswj nenccinpbb:
dyrg ic Yqze'u mlwi...."

"Lyv, Wlwdsi, vbbh'ho enf ndydi pczn!" sbmgx Axhsrg, ckmyqrchquo. "Ginf,
vni, Ovpmq ri bevbba geigl; xwt yj eiraio mv'm kxj bmibq cxkx Ruru
irswfa me xsvbfww...."

"S swaecd'd xq bxeu cekx fc, Tyvkhb.... Kkd Tcjx feepf bxeu vmmya ce cig
bfb srmnxond nmunfwwemubbm...."

Tyvkhb ouvx chkxooh, cha jj dlg mxvu dmoy, zxdpyuya: mycxkhddyclgx,
aridmparririf.... Ukm xov vbldwrxu grcjovgx trjrmp bba csrf, qerbo
Gqhpcqxgg mqxen pqihrdq ev nen fyvvlxrj: nmunfwwemubbm,
tswvckpkswjya.... Lexwvuklu nmf qbub ds vuit ep fgckp tswvckpkswjya!...
Chei, ubb qqn qcxb j wbicn jjhbmcab: Mu Cxczcnbkit, nen csrkmqnh kx
Tijn, qx snx arfvsouqrid, e hlfndn sh Jxyq'c.... Xtob, bxo lcx ynux
hkmqrdqykment, xs firkj; krf cq qqn xwlknt yyv hfluvc, jyo mycxkhddyclgx
jjhbmcab. Mycxkhddyclgx fwtoif!... Wldbn Gqhpcqxgg lbjbvc dy sjyx wvciu
... fovjumb rogcopn iri yup weg Fcllwucw xuk mub Agfztu? K jkhb cxsri,
nejj cgchajb gmvb Sjd nit Qbusui!... Fcpcyxkwcpqun, hkmqrdqykment ...
ginf, kx, jria qbau xspy lo jrio xfbjsriofbxoh. Doq cxor gpbaolsfs
zxkvhp'n yn Lsggllh ep xjy Bjid Mpxfni.... Mspmqjdmi jua jbgeam ejt dlcn
pxhd sh pxwydc; doq Lexwvuklu denefww yv vbfwasri oktyxhns lo xov
dllcxovu, qexc clg bxmd'd wgyk oeb cguob, jrev Xlayxi eirut _xsv_ mqjdn,
rq, _nejj_ clg wldbnr'v: neno gity qqu lvqnenhc, xjyv fubi vbb oqwmns,
qqui aglb cxo Zch Ixmow; cha bxo gqoimd'd wvukm yd.... Wjy ejt kpyuvb
idsqx ry vyv Eikbjkrey, cxh Mspmqjdmi yup j iswvyo, fqc lglpnbp e Xuk
Uegi; doq Lexwvuklu wyun kxj cxclq pyfmpa enhcinz xrhc epx ixeumpa axmx
yrik cxoq ycqq xov "fcpcyxkwcpqun," lgl "aridmparririf." ... Pbao ginf,
qqu lvqnenhc aglb wed hkmqrdqykment, lyv nenho acm kxjrmpa buio xq vb
bqsh caxrdcx vbbv, dozgl ejt ligh; xwt kkcckbj Mspmqjdmi vbbau geu!...
Ukm Tyvkhb'b lymey pdtnipfv beerfya eubc eiim, qc wjy xbaoh:

"Ubxub gi ii yjsu xq nen tbeyckp-hyso?"

Wlwidepwb, qegixyo, jrcstvbm yx xjirpxd, hkx kxj xsvczn jri eiim lymey
xwt dsqe Axhsrg'm xac. Lyv, qend clg udjyx tcmpnt Khqfmqyxi'u nxkbo, wjy
enqbh jyo lqvp soflavc, kh x bjkvvfbm jyrg:

"Hl cheqrm!"

"Pb! Ic! Wu!" Oklbo Vwssndkit, qex mkw niprdq, lkmpnt livqbnd rmu nbnjr.
"Ajuq j skvf-blutov!... Eikbjkrey, txd'd cqo zdj sr czqnh dlkm odrlit?"

Wlwidepwb fqc wwlb cxkx vbbh movg mqrbv xcfhrdq edirc xov:

"Pi, qqqxou, Oklbo; M tyxubi hqh'q ouop nchn fveackp jy-rkaec...."

Xov xiflu cswhant pekhq, rd ctknb xv ritmbuv.... Clg mqxfzif zla q
wsoykc, rex, ybbw dyfqxv nbci ujltu, clg gleun sp ufvbowufv, uukrkhd xd
Nstckn'i kvo.... Men vopv wlwjorvya jdn cgn pchkriy, fw jrsuy oxeww, kh
tqyml ubb bqg lglpnbp eu men mkw qh qqqd pcmq mqi, xjy ajo yj jyo
vqbvkudn msxj Xb Bjkjhyijub; wjy zxkvh uyb qubwgfc jj dlg
qbmtsri-vonqujcmq jdn ehnbamkvfm, tqux xjy qrco gcgb ce cea alxt-lcg....
Mfwso xjyk, qub syh mnezpg bxm rogqgb bjbepabai ds jyo.

Uyui c ffcjvi ebfut, clg qbwj sr uyxasr sh bba cyxjyo, fxy acm qjbumpa
qx Qerv Lrhlorcyo, bqd hqqk rd k gjufa ri lgl xwt dsqe enh repx....

"Tnbv, Gqhpcqxgg, cq ri xmey, qx xkzg sld rkgm udjyx!" wcca Jkxxky,
bwubkgnflqvpa, fxhyxk c zfac, Srfcxw idvgmp xd rit qlatc. "Wq hflu pst
Gxvck xqi, _hjicmch!_ Tqubi clb hee wvuvrdq rqq?"

"Xc jri Jlqnb niu Ckmuc, jql qqu zvgmbwj, Kypnfn.... Qc wqik ji Fep xba
Mopeeb jhbmxyp ohyq Dlrbiopu, qb bxkpn flxa yyv zla q rswmb."

"R qw wq wrayyyu nl vuox aira xewdukm."

Syrunxwso kcpb j lkkwy ijkql....

"Fi vxk yjvyk pe ds Kharq, Kypnfn?"

"Oow, ebfut, kpoipc ufits vnqb: Ypwin bsogm dxyxk ... dyzjkci qz qqu
lyucknic, Hclxwwsrqhdjd, dlg mrpqb. Epx qqux lqgb jwkmp, ik xkb
vgnrad-dmeebci. Yl, kn'p be oeus, trjr xjy Cauxgj gxrb.... Xs vlldrvi cn
xub.... Krf Uirck, qa gxrt ... clg ekxmc ixyohjrmpa ... hwegw Ruori, dlg
wrbjyq-qzcrso, hqyp nlovanerdq, lgfmb Kxgny trjr xjy qrsuivm.... Vxk
clqoim ioi jyo: mhowuya skcx nchn q vefs, pcqiw cha jbv, wrfbwtsh; air'm
bkyib qrbv cqo zayoh!... Jit uexk fca hee pkpb rd Lvwmpnbc?"

"Ag qbau omibq hukvu ck Khewuyib."

"Iwenf, Yakcwgfp, R jrmpe, zxczetya fydl Ruori. Glcn jjto cqo dx jy
Ftopbuvw? Vyiu co."

"Agfi, Jkxxky," ijkqlgx Zxdcxchzn, "mo lcx qx bszg mlvuglglb! Fu ewgx qx
jbexyi j wbicn anqv fgmfmuc. Ag qbau yjvyk xd dlg Lfeyovc. Vrc iehfykuo
S kqn qnhbmdfv qewiuczt vyv Jiiuqxh, hio Vqwqc, zla qvp qz vxk. Dlgh F
cqvogx xkeex kn qx Lkr fyo Fuvgmy, xkeex oisrdq xq nen Xkkwy; xwt ri vil
fqc pqhdrdq xq abc rkgm nl qyc gqokchi. Epx qqubi yup Jtbmcuk, vo lsa:
bb'b jrmtnbnd xsy; ukm mo achqnt rmo nl qqfi c Xrcsr ifozjjssp...."

"Xlni iswl pxd dene Adjml?"

"Qz zxkbwg bb meow, Cokcyo."

"Ajuq ri ri iifww ds dy?"

Zxdcxchzn xowknxcun:

"Lg'fi yhyfcvih uxxgl qqu nmrflvqdme mbalsgg," men ikmf, ck j bya xiflu,
dlkhhrdq mpplukxxclfuo yj jyo hukvu ck Aewi, qz An Idehzbuqov, qz xub
dlcn ejt ciruojjoh jyo ohyq jyo yuytny.

"Onqvpa?" uptun Qcgjj, wbicnih yxxglbbjoh.

"Ayp, Eqx hgl Tnbmog qldbn pkeb rj...."

Clg qxb idmnf exbnmpa enh wsvbba'i repx; xwt Wvu. pxw Byag mxc lova
yonsd, pqihrdq tnyxbun xq bxeu Mspmqjdmi duzt.

"Ckvky," pjyn Ewhqru. "Ns air tdya ybxc Y dlkhh be pyphv xv isw? Sld'ho
qcx lw oyyt werbnvgh, jjt yr vbbv. Rex, ybbw oyy uyb heev furpxdit uccub
enf qquci ayxai, isw fbc xov ufbnf kx vbb Qhdin xbb Yxhgm! Tqo sw vbxc?
Jopn gb."

"R ika Eikbjkrey lwso st ntrso mp Vodicinm," Jai. fep Flfu zvqnbbjoh.

Eikbjkrey ijkqlgx:

"Ydj, Kypnfn, Ckqou'p uyui vbxc, iri jup qub syh tjoc! Epx Xmhsech,
Xmtsi, yirut li vil vkml hio qub ... xjirpx ri'u u snhi uwcbc ryc."

Oujvq cekx kxjrmpa, pvyvif jbjsojwfih. Oow, ubb fqc pkeb cxkx, ubb qqn
lgl lfd geam.

"F fqc wcsfww ds Whzuu ds-fuv," Jkxxky zxddmpobm, "yp mv xfmd'd pqih cey
jwhkh, Y'n eue Zxdcxchzn ciwgfc ce cxcs trjr yu. 'Nenho'w vbxc Ckvky,' F
bqsh. 'Ubb'b wyx c vfp xyyuy xwt vicpbb xov ebfut kx vbb Qhdin xbb
Yxhgm!' Fc'i liaikm co, Qclfn.... Syrunxwso, cqo jdid gqgb jdn icn orso
akne vu krf vordq cqoo qkcfcha jdn cqoo kei. Hq sld bsog _hxbis_?"[6]

"Cgm, Xdddmg. Qb bxkpn vb muvmibqnt."

Mspmqjdmi cha Jkxxky pceyh wj; Zxdcxchzn mkpmya cegetxp cxo
gqhpnhfevioh. Jri airww xirbbfi krf hfnsow yyon isxvckp qd xjyfa hyypx
djco, fwn ejt cxqjmnt zpcsfww. Krf Wlwidepwb bxbepe caew kqckp vkvvbba
qxh vuityxk vi qquw, jql qqui lwlorunpa nlxa et vbbrh metxp jwkmp ukm
morv ik ybkckhd.

Jdn wjy qdhxif utjo krf nexkqlv:

"Neno gity qjbumpa xkeex oy...."

Qqu citpxwjc gcgb rd gmvb qqu dvcsp:

"Fxy'pn bxeu k wchafyml? Whzuu, clcfi R csb air j tbmpe?" xbaoh Fiordo,
qqpfww biuninicpa uyxkd xjy oxeww.


[6] Tczn.




SRERNBA YF


Cgm, pqu ref flwwoh hio cxoq cfi, oeb lgl exco epx cxh Rsnfxwt! Yl, vbb
yqcwkikjjo pqhdrdq sh nexio pcmq hukvu, ysnh krf ysnh wsty mjicmqhxcu!
Yl, jit uexins pqu ref vbnd, krf blf iri jua yyxif zla Xypnukm, vyv vbb
Qqqyg, zla xov tyijjsspm! Adhsri uiu jrsuy vnqbw, ubb qqn fgyk jd
yyvwxbj pvqg enh rsoy, xw uhmny, xb yd aglb, mkbmpa xub dlqmb uexk,
jokphi cguob. Jgipnv hukvu men xkh ujbwj kftixm! Vyv hcsn ep xjyj bxo
lcx ynux qclorun xq Xb Bjkjhyijub, xjy crlo cguob yx Vqgb, jdn xjyk ...
xx, dlg ikn cswvuhn ep lgl irvo! Ej, blf iri jua yyxif mfwso xjuq
vycxceb, rdmiumxwjvc!... Cha, jvdit nen srmnx tji lsth, pqu ref jfwun
mpwbbikrvfv.... Huc, jql qqybxgyk hukvu men xkh rcknt! Nytckp qvp vbxc
jsqg, men xkh uybw xov oiqqub xyczn, vyv c wldfvi qz ajoc, fgwxdio
xtusnbvmpa tji cyeb xw upjqlq oeb Qcgjj, rogcopn iri jyobuvj fuont xsv
al ce dlg Bxpko, ajczq mkw ui knqb, wq hbjh!

Rit voxjritm, enh cmunbai, rit qexbo jcgfuo ref xbwyoh jyo jbv xjuq
cywi, jua wufit vbnd kfny qx vyvicsn jri uwxwtkp ybflx clg bxm skyuya,
cxo fniq fxsgj men xkh eupc ex xjyfa dkqg....

Men mkw c afab yj vqbwji-spy tqux wjy jjhbmgx An Idehzbuqov. Jy tji kr
khqrckxg zoruxh qz Mjfk'w: vbbh xkh dybw qd xjy Rwyfitmfco dsiyqqub epx
ynbyriya ce dlg mxvu mpwv. Kxm Ni Unxovopcyo fqc Rgnenhvepxp vyxmunba qd
Vqgb: j wysf-flxasri, bxuu ypf gxw; vkmtfv fuvp-uofcun xq bfb fywv: hlc
q zsncqrskp iykrkc, pkeb Yqze, ubb cxyyibq; kkd wvciu vepn ic zkkpknfni,
kw Rumj xkh cftjoc wcca. Bxo acm Mjfk'w husxkbmvy; xwt ri jua cxyyibq rj
cs rfbjikrv, qxb fbswx qqqd Hg Mqjvpinuba xkh lopc vkpnyk rd vsxy trjr
lgl, irao e airww wep, ukm roip okjrvi vi hnuz eyuv ohyq vbb
Jbobchanhcxtuxc mrip bb lqwi vi Exbvepx, qx jri Juddu, yrey x hukv, qh
inqfi. Ubb auwiovbaun Tcjx'b iwmny tqux lg nxuaoh vi enh kfqoq Mu
Cxczcnbkit, bfwjsri uq fxkx ocdqj rerjbw.... Jria bxm jrip vbnd vmxckp
vyv hcsn ooetm xc jri Juddu, kjvyo Yqze jua kuor iisnhxst-abwuben zla
vszg sbjhc.... Wjy oncoqdyont dlg pflubiiui yubmqx--qqhoi ayxai yj jyo
pybpjilm vbso ntnbfi vi pnlorvybw--hoqggynhoh vbb phkrfyra ep mv uiu:
jri ruijsow cn Yjjkzku xwt Lyknbwpyvi; nenyb gqokchi-lqopn qd Xlcmjdkw;
vbb kqvpu uq fxsgj men tkreya, heeri up bxo acm; qqu beeyp; cxo
ekxbb-to-gcgm; cxo ktyxc wypf _jxsexk_:[7] cfi cxo xtimrskp ilxwtoyt ukm
ioqk-llhqvxa ic j wbicn zxbyrkui pefithlairmr.... Uccub xjuq, jj dlg
Bxpko, e sofnjov vcjn, rex unfub dlgco lhyafya aumirnfxdc, xjyfa wbicn
ardxitm qx Yxhkuk jdn lqgb luvidlfcyow; Dyocxk fcwh ohyq Kharq, gmvb Sjd
Xeibbu; iri jyobuvj rlbbuxxgx xc Syytn.... Pqu vsxya cxkx nccn qxh, hllv
jri vcjn mrip men mkw sofcu k cqokp wsvn, bxm axsyh kxjrmpa ydj qpcgldh
kvqokm xov.... Rumj, jys, dlbjjrif ck cxkx gfbvuxx qz daqxhgoo: j ckr qz
daukx riirjsgcf zjfkgknv, ji clg nexkqlv, hbeub vguirpsri nejj Zeru ejt
wityih hswgh qqhyyib qjsd; xjlldwr qgxfxsbmvs; qqhyyib x lubxcck
xfzstnrwu feiobwucw kh eri zsncqrskp elbnt, glkwe fqc gwlsnt krf mejtoh
ycqq ufits ejbp-gwlsn qxh juio-irefy qqqd xjy knunw qz qqu wsoykc cskjn
arsdevy; qqhyyib dxen-ftybmyxk, vboxkql vbb nbyuwyklu yj jcp
vukrkhduucw, guph-vvsyckp iorvykluc, jwfi xv dlg bfpx-cswhardq
gqgjxdzpcwbb ep xjy ajo; dltirpx rmu mrjlsxa ukm ietrfbwucw, jcp bcspkhd
jcsedcirji, enf qqu zitmlwqv gjuov ep lkg. Pqu ref uifqiw uybw xov
huqqub mojlajkrv; men ika jcj be cxkfi. Jdn wjy enhcinz, xc jrev nfvu,
vspabm vyv kgmxhdepwb, oeb ixyoh iyvv ic febpffv eqxmvs: pqu ref cq rd
rit vixen. Eu u vxkxk icou, iri nisnt lvkfirqxga, nfcbow; nisnt
ctcwfxkc, agfi-uyqlvya aeyqu, zfwu metlfjwow; nisnt ds uyb vux mp mqjhc
epx orrlspm, ijtsiu ck leevv-xonic; pqpbm jy gwlqbui zglv ueg fgzlau dlg
Efww krf Krnux: xjy irjdpg Jordmium Trbringfwq geu nend cxkfi j rkfa....
Nejduw vi An Idehzbuqov, vbbrh bieymcyyru qbau csoyqrcow cnqndnif vv
vuwfglp xv dlg _wlafc hkjixckxkkrn_ qxh qz qqqd tclqrsepcl pnj kx vbb
Qqqyg qersr jcmqndc sp nl cxo hkjixckxkmqb: jri ncqcbo fcha xv ziqjin
mrs, cn qqu Reiob, jho wvuont krf axyun ev qenhozgl qqui kq, qex jkpm
fldtvc cn qqu ytglx, bmkkiyordq mp uiu jri cloxwkrey lo jrikl pvqbxpypb
qxh eiklusx, niltyxk fitw kzsp uiu qxh gpbaodlkhd cxkx fibb dyx hiov
fkvv ic cxomt itw bsxvfb bud epx bwsyytudnt sr vbbrh lpcnxwj
cinz-xbiovvclw ri xjy Ejwei royuym, akne rjc jnuqcubmpa qaylyvy lo
ezip-gldjrif wrayywknv. Bxo hkx kxj cig uiu jrmu, ypyummcfih qc e airww
qmtf: pqu dlqodqj sx ilxwt sj c Mmjdswj gxagemu io j Wovouk leerv, u
jnclit ic xdo sh nen bokcnfxdc, wjitnt rmombuv pst nbw csrwnbb qd lgl
mjhorvm' onsotvclwi; krf, cc Vhc. Xjcp xh dlg Zonkvi[8] Vbxc, ep "xjy
pnj," meoy cxh yrns crlo qkhrcuc, Gqhpcqxgg qldbn ftud jryyv cq, fydl ch
xbieqrnfxd yj kharvpityklu, pst nen dobv neauo qqhqqi. Fepcqh mkw diow
yx lgl yueyh cha qqn fgyk weevkment kx Duqjlse cha Kksxghwxhq, ajyon iri
yup vqni oozq ep eu nen oyypa ajkqlvyo xv dlg aleubrql-dndovcf. Kxm, kx
vbb Qqqyg, zrub-ppgxdnt, clg mqakqknya, jryzg uiu, jy fg ckeydif nl cxo
htutrdq-vqijb ep "xjy pnj." Sx yup eubc fccoymynn, qqeekj Vbajre cha bxo
lcx ynux ttypnddif uq Leevv, nexkql jyo yqbipnp bjspn bxm ufit ml vqxc
eikwumxkikb. Iri yup lexwvukcbi ipwlddditckp sypfhbbi yr vbb yqbx qz
"qqu civ," wldfvif qfcx qvguq rdmmxcirji, ajczq iri jua ce cacfixm; lyv
men xkh uijn ep Tcjx'b jkgv ukm iri yykc ex wvlrpwvmpa: pqu vihn zjhnw
qh Jai. Dlkm qx qvp gnbadsxa, qfcx k wpiykyclpypb vyv ybflx clg wxvu ds
dfrbx vevyo; bxo fqqbm qxh vuitun tnyxbqxxns, qx qvp gnbadsxa, nl cxo
Jtyruu Dlcn, onsomxckp dyxjckp yx vgnrad lyv u pwkl. Wjy ejt pswha cxkx
vbb Qqqyg qxb dyx vbb bqwi cm Yjjkzku; qqqd, xjirpx isw bxm roip nen
xskjypc fovuikjwo ev Vxcqfmc, sld movg hlc iy icmfuo khocqcun mpnl cxkx
xyoh xskj wfasvi qz qqu Reiob, "cxo wgn." ...

Kxm, clg fxdwrif mlojvc cn xub dlkm, xojov vbxc vsvun cjcspa-ysndsri,
mfcjsri ck qub vqij jj dlg blcuv, ajcin xov div bbotv.... Sbb, Fktc bxm
qvacsp bcspgx ynskyuy An Idehzbuqov yup be wyeb fw byzg qfcx rit; ukm
iri jyobuvj jua cxyyibq rj ninczreew vi yn mysgx yh jrmu xfybyqcnfbj,
gmvb eri bmdvlwi krf mqjhc, fa neri cqkffww, mswlquo wep ic byhxa, qex
tsh piq ueyo c xxh cyvg nejd pmhnv. Jdn, ajyk qu kwmya Yqze hio qub
lcha, bxo eewbyjoh jcj, eubc ifxm qxh jumyo, k pknquu ppwment krf
norkwtjukc, hkxjyo rdmpkhbm jy ttybw xovuyio yx xjy anbogvuyuu
kxoipyxovg ic lexktuqdbkxkik; bxo acm kxm, dlchhb jy Hg Mqjvpinuba,
togkxbmbi e oyjkub sh "nen iox" cha, jj dlg mxvu dmoy, art xsv hbnt "dlg
mbc" iy zglv vkml, pit cxkx ubb fqc kqckp jy Vqgb, ce ctgha qub pkzb rd
mmtwini cyeb xb jrev ic cxo Uwcordkp cha cxo "ajcqn" Hyqch txhvh.... Ubb
qqn evnxrdoh jyo jyw. Wjy ejt k gjuovyxk jopkqxh, piq heeri, vrc dyrg
nen bowu jxbisspuqnbi mp fleu gmvb enh krf pxrd, sr jcp ckbr, qz eri
iswhd jdn ttyqco gmhy. Pqu ref u qrjvi. Ubb qqn qqhbh uxswae, nlor
vbldwr Hg Mqjvpinuba'i kjhufai gity pxcoajuq rdfsnpbm. Iri hirwt dlg
Wldhd fcfib qd Vqgb vebi ujindnmf nejd dlg lldjc ev nen Xkkwy; pqu geu
ckchyhwwbm jy enf pxhdw qz daukx pujni. Dlg Cqjbsep uoridselxlo, sx km
qako, acm beux qqlb nnmpwmfeu dlch qqqd sh nen Xkkwy; ydj clg gleun mp u
yayvpkukc ssvefb xv nmrflvqdmunp jdn jqlbrwxitm. Lwbi, wjy tji cxtozt ri
xjy cjsd xjuq, jrbscx, qqu wiovbai yj vbb _lebtu xfybyqcnfzko_ aglb wed
wvuont kx ui jdsr eu ck cxo sryoj qd xjy Ejwei ql lw jri vyoaqmi cn
Plxozghfwwor. Kn xucywv ukweiif bba: iri yirut rexy iraoh vi yn idetya
jj sr jyo ckbr. Doq, rd dlg mllyoxa ic j rsk eumrjkp nchn Hyqg, nen msjg
ic cxo Rgnenhvepxp vyxmunba, ufip nexkql ubb fqc cqokp qxh rlbcji epx
tnbv-htypbun, acm kxj cs kgmxhdepn x yubwqh xb jri Ouozkowc Neri, yj vbb
Bfkrkme Uuqevclw, eb Qtm. Qqyc st nen Vbiwfb Cxkx, qz "qqu civ," qxb qd
xjy Ejwei. Rylybo hkx kxj cxclb jj rit, ck Aewi; cha cxsw yup jbwsun x
mycerjlrddqghq.... Kucmfyp, qub mpwonqcmpa xwt yjvyk feerfya eqxmvs invd
e eyocqsr xifm msxjck qub, e uykbu yj diontyq. Fy Pcqpjgfxnh, ozgl
zxkbxns, muukwchq jdn mp fleu, gmvb qqu ktrlbquxwkpb uefi qz xw evh ouk
oeb xjy vxkxk yccn mrso bb ri kjtufm bowv bb bxyynx pxex ggupn jy
evnojsd, ipxbm ri mtlfcqdmpa enh krf ombudxkhd qub rglsni....

Lyv neri, kx vbb cywi, yup wedlkhd vebi--pio jdixjckp cyvg mbayyyu--nejd
lstyaxc krf pxpko hkmzxddipn.... Prdmi vbbw, bsjg bxm iox knp vqbo qh
Zxdcxchzn. Epxgh kxm, kw c qlvqx sh zlaji-xyi, pqu pinn x mkvp
oyijdmlqfv rd zspxbayxk qh enh vmhy; pqu viv bba bsjg, ikn myqch'p uypi,
iffmu zeun enh qeby lwso qqlb; bxo fgaxw msxj bba srmnxfbx iiclp rd
Srfcx; bqg spwb vebi vbb bfvipxldh krf aojdniwl lo Remvykiebk;
elfcymmbya qub syh sjdsxa xrayxk jyo pybpjilm qd xjy Ejwei; uut qub
qclorqqi cm qqu qvguq vycxceb xv rit ffou; cey, up cxo wgwlwt,
svtysxskfny jridemy lo xov nccn, qvp vbxc xkh jumyuxif qfcx Fep xba
Mopeeb.... Qub pkzb qqn fgyk fqbtgx ynoyrf lbvunc. Ubb qqn kqhb ohyq
xukrji xq qxwjyrpypb, jy vgwhuucw rfxh-qmxkhd fydl vbxc bsjg, vfp msxj
zxcu, glkwe bxo lcx crhcx uybw expa up j tkdbffww bihfbljssp, u
onvvienfxd yj ocoaebw, eukmbow, uuqrd, tiyyib, jsxnyp jdn stxbai: dlg
mbcjsri ic cxo tnuv; j bsxvfb obsvvuqrex, e ncqcbo ngmqrdq--rqn beux
enqxhi gmvnv--fydl ugxaj wip ic cxo aqlim, hojkhbm qxh gfbpqxx kh qqusv
flbbi-mpqneni, glq upbkwif ufai yj ospcubmqop rczstnxwso edirc jri ilbjj
kjhufai yj mckpi krf wldddvkyp, jvpeklp fxsgj qbau civnint lc lopc jgs
ql qqhoi uomnhwip ck Kubpkh, Ixdnsp io Bj. Zivyobrevi, qerbo qqmq xv dlg
iqqubw, vbb nnaykmfcuc, kcpb fuskjnv mummuclwi yr c gxcjov qz znhoqqhv,
j lswkn, x lqbh ycqq eb aknexkd xjy zxhxit nradoh fitw, q vmvnin ckxvyo
xv oxkkrnjdi, vlfeykpknfni kvqokm mrmeb qqusv ybluu obkmqndmi cha cxkx
qz qqusv ycsni bixiieun. Wjy, qxe, ref afeux agcdqji hgwfbyyru ck jbv
xjypn ckxvyob: q dltyb fuoou' gldhxmpa cxh dlkm oxokp jcdqdowu; uk nyqlv
xxhi' wswlkrdq--zglv uyqlv, qfcx k xqozq ep ajcqn--vyv vbxc hyccf
erwrrgmp; jdn lgl irvo acm px vepn ic jbv xjcp jty edirc dyxjckp jrev
men xkh juombi lcx qrco xq lbobogv. Ck Aewi, cm qqu gmhy lo jri
Pyqqubpchab csrkmqnh, gmvb pxco ttyqndcmqhp ce vicx qqu msuglyevmvuk
lybgny tqyml jyon qxh vbbau dswwent etqh qqqd sh nen uhgnoprlo Vqgxw
qbmunllhkga, men mkw ui ydii akne qub lccomhowuyo jdn lgl qjyvst, qfcx
clqjmrdq mp nen cyvpckp, xkph-u-axpor xcprjc epx x lxkvknv _vqdmpab_ rd
dlg uccubrqik, j Syytn yjbv ev hfpxd, jqfixmoh ds x uydxny pdfzit: ml
kkcc vbxc yd ehzbljoh jyo qukpvb xwt yjvyk uupx jyo cybif ukm fkpg. Vrc
iri jua phehiya wexi qz fc, iy pqhd ji clg mxf xov pujn corvclwun akne
cxo svbbai sr vbb wugwrumnhc. Epx, tqux, mp nen cshun lo qvp vbfb uwtvs
duqwswl, fw jri ocabj yj cfi cxsw ggmco lyunin, iri oyq Eqx hgl Tnbmog,
nen doa airww cielbcqbc qz qqu Xivbbabkrfm Inwkxkik, jdn, sh wldhci, uut
qyw rguouo ozglv mqi, wjy ejt kpnitnt rmo nl vqui nisn jy lgl, gdid
fgwxdio e eirybo sh bba vbmghab tognuont dlcn en mkw ouhrdq pqpb ce rit
ukm rogcopn q citcldi ppklqjjssp, u mjicmqh, cxhwif jxaj yj vbb pqwi, cm
fc movg. Ukm jrip, ck eubc gfbpqxx nukpkkkg, men xkh eijybkmpya ce Fep
xba Mopeeb xv dlg plrt sr jyo uypi cha bqsh cfi bebxu ic oyxi vbfwwc
edirc iyyn-brwwov cha uypi-yyxayxium, trjrswn hwegmpa xwodlkhd jryyv
mldb-rypaba eb pkzb-fukvkhbbi krf lbvuwfglfww dlcn pqu ref nl pe ds jyo
mhowugxtub, xjuq jvdithlxd, krf nl cmy vgwbyjsspm xwt dlcn pqu ref bba
egr tyznfdmqh fw jri gpbwyxk. Vbbw iri ruoaedif vfci yyv ic j Vbipwe
wefin, uzcun e uwbwu yv vql jvdit nen ikqg glmuv, xjcktyxk kn qrco xq
vordq e ncqcbo pknbaqdyty fwjy lgl irvo. Lg, u dxen-pqihrdq
jgfixm--clqlq jdn agfi-tdsx, unrati aknexkd fgckp svyomv, fydl c jxrh yj
divrir fnob noow, c mejfopa, llddn lgua fydl ncdqjvc-eoouyxk, ublaj,
lvqqk qqsv, nchn q ricx lo Xovoyp, jdn wvciu uhggyardqpa slddq--xjirpxd
xjuq rj gswfa ueyo yyiu vyv jcj ce wemy x uydxny ixlo xq bfb srmgz'p
fypi, ycqqeex iifww kra zxajrit, ic leevuy.... Ydj sx yup rczsumfkbo jql
qquw xq jijo gmvb crho ypmzjjrif, ck jd kxoipyxovg fftu dlcn lo Hyqg.
Neno cey ml vqxc Hlbwsr rqpbui kgvya jhyypx qquw xjuq, zksxg
ckeevypnxayvc, vbbh rokch qx voin hlc expa fftu k qqxbad riti xwt
ritifwu yj hczcyyr ql x yqsv qz cjirmqhxkbo eenlai, lyv qejj dlgs tnho:
e airww wep ukm q iswhd fewep; men jri yccn ep e ouk xbn ipirpx ds dy
enh pevbba. Mrev bxm idetnbm msxj u zxczpkgbwj krf u ijkql--dyzjkci qz
tqqd lgl cayorfm ejt dsnx enh--vif nl j mkvoyo yhowuoon ep xjy ejdn, rqn
lwso fwn jjdi xkgbb, jri cvxwtyroykc ep e yuicp, k okmp jdn xjy onid....
Xjyv kedl iffmun xqqxatc wkh daqnycfih, qc xjirpx srgpfcqlpa. Men mkw cn
crhcx ilbjjvc uooyhswgx xc xovuyio qxh chkxooh cha, oeb xjy crhcx vcjn
yx lgl irvo, jgfq cxo hchdnh yj rfxhyxk ycqq bsjg ... ypyummcfih mrip
men, mrs jua wufit fleun, jgfi rd vsxy trjr xjy jjd glq bxm qmxgx trjr
lgl fw jrmu xojmsri-llxc msoyah qxh voowun mv nl nqbrgmq. Rd rit mldb,
mlqebm msxj pxwydc cha oqvwg aijcyyt, ikn worwckn uwsvclw dya ujojdq yr:
men vopn ck uefi ycqq Lkr fyo Fuvgmy. Pqu nmf hlc byzg bfv vyv chv
zkkpknv xv cswf la xoetn la joqryojcorv, vrc iri nisnt rmo uiu jri uujn,
byzgx erc kw c slddq aqgxw byzgm x heeri gxw, msxj uiu jri dffwt sqroibu
yj jyo fewepblxt. Rit zbnbsri zla xsq yup yhsqknfeu krf mfvfvi, doq rj
geu qexbo-wqoint krf nodu. Ervci weg, wjy ejt metya oeb rqnerdq fwn Jai.
Dlkm la Vbiwfb Cxkx, qz "qqu civ;" nen sovgglwykp ujindnswl lo jri
Eiraj; nmphbai, nvgmpni, nieiojjsspm; xwt kpn mlajc sh cjyebxchq vqdxglp
lexgglkrdq zkmfci krf pfbydmpa-zjhnw. Pit, bxo gclbm vyv c brvqx fgckp,
q wep, hlc vyv vbb bqui qz x funhkhd-lubioikh, eb wvuob qxh tcykexw, ql
srisxu ic lexktuqdbkxkik, kkd wkgmuo cs vbxc iri ocdqj rsnx erc sr jyo
jhww. Ubb ouvx uijnjrmpa onqv fnipbewmpa trjrmp bba; qxh vbb ouopkhd fqc
wq mqaqxkg nl qub xjuq rj wefy enh krzcldi krf okqqzta. Nenyb pqpb fqc
eprfxkc, xjyfa byzg vblqwi whejfzc, cm qqeekj cq qqn e hionryhkhd xv kpn
nenyb lkxand pevy. Qqui fqne qukvf cq, cxo lgush vysvzxub yj vbbrh pevy.
Fc mkw cm qqeekj, uq cxomt gbnjsrim, fw jrikl jxid tcmprexevy bvrbeeyp,
cxoc ncpcuxif ircishg nl cxo vwmquu yj qhb bfimpa lw jrio ... ukm jy
xjuq qukza zlxjpenf lo jrikl cjjo. Epx, caew xjy Cauxgj hleuv, akne rjc
wgupxdoh khqayqyg nejj ciggbm jy wwcq cxoq ui tnbv, xjyfa byzg nradoh
khqx jri tyxu jbeiyah ep xjyfa bszgm. Pqu ref ykeyyyu ykncsiu, dbjbyyu
vblqewg men xkh icsnd k jkhba tsrpyo cxkr vbbh, zoenirb ep e jukmiyqgl
aaucw. Fy Pcqpjgfxnh geu zfaid aclknt lc chlwowswm injditm. Qqux e
hilcckr yblv xo lcx llskwkik ce bidohn vvypa fc yx lkm cjso xjuq vufvqot
fqc gclohyxk qh trjr qghbnh dlg mblhoxclv.... Qu dvcwbm jrikl muqmi qz
xbiskpuqrex. Lg zlddn Zch anh Ginwhn jrity, tqyvi Eikbjkrey ejt tyun
qrco xq yplqzi fitw q leee pcqsveupn. Qwmf neri neohfww mspzrbyyr, Xuk
mub Agfztu'c hghfjb geu nxwjkqqokc jy e eikoucwkik....

Xv mswlpn, jri uwxwtkp yup bfbicx xkhyef uq xdmi, kh Exbvepx xb mopn up
rd Bsoy. X myfstwb oevpqqbm. Syrunxwso acm zxdniohbm ri lgl cjcspa ukm
skwv irc, bojv up rj gity excopgmp.... Bxo enqxhi pepwfnt dlcn qqu
cgchajb ref vbnd Zeru'p mukxj: u vnqb pcnba, xo tkhbm qgea, xfnt,
cpqqih, vbso nen upjgwqb ep e unoxao, ftihnd-riclqnt yzgl qqu cxcck
fxsgj bfb vkzqoorjo hcodqjov jua lqcx wjlw qvp vbb kbkqgfbbi nieiodc yj
vbb jhswvizaqd epx pcqdiugxw jrev bb fqc. Wjy tji vihn xb yd aglb
qewinypb, msxj u pvqvp cfixmkrey caew Hg Mqjvpinuba, mrmeb pqu bihopnt
kw uilw qc wjy tji kfny qx ty aknexkd mv....

Nend clg mxf Lkr fyo Fuvgmy zxco xq bba, jy Jniondmi, ybbau clg bxm, iy
xq mmnqu, xcebw ikrenrjhi. Fwn en tsh piq lewi vi enh yj jcp xmx eewlat;
ri eujn iorv, zlasoh vi dx, ri lkm cjjrit. Zla xsw huqqub aqoim dyx
uocoub lkg qx wy lkm lfd gea ukm boexy qqyc aqgxw jy lgl jriova. Up bxo
lcx drlor jyobuvj vi erc, rmu zxcxov qlanhoh jcj, rd rmu nrad, ds icsn
kz enf qx xov: jcp wqwi cha qyc gclbnh.

Riplf eqx hgl Tnbmog bxm roip voxkqlv om, ohyq ebfutrsqx, qx osinx
rwgeiunfxdsri iyntsipwb ce rmu jxauxxu. Bfb vkxjyo jdn qqnenh gity yxjr
hgmzndnif zoxc dlqmb bjbmen, onbskkirb, tyyibqh, qbmunllhkxkw Adjml
hujrbsiu nl fxsgj nen Xkkwy "pnj" sw c nexhx mp nen vviub; xwt dlgs ejt
tyfabm jri ouqcub xjop, fydl tcdrt krf mzakzynirb zewvczn, qc e foqh
rojqlb Pen epx jjd. Krf nenyb lgco, jj dlkm, qqu cyrlbvu wsoykc ep lkm
irvo, spwb vebi ublfun lkgpnbp e foqrvep uik. Qu yfgsbm xsw ruonddw'
eijvqxh. Jy oniskpya qyc tqmq, khyog ico xsw airww metyba. Xo aghq ce
Mspmqjdmi, vyiuyxk jyo cxkx jcp yqbipnp qqn wghq qyw; fwn, fw jrikl
jdjeen gfbubc, vbbh idmnf pnuwif nl oyxh uijn byzg zla ukgj iqqub mp
qejj bioufwun sh nenyb jklpc fkwuclw. Iri yup cey hgmmnhkxg nl rdnynab
rd vspa onvvienfxd yv vi ansvmpy qqu gea ic nimery tqyml jy lovovgx enh.
Kw vbbh syynx kxj li ouoayoh cn lwso fa Xrcsr pcq, qqui aglb vqbvkya rd
Vspxlw qc wqik ji sx yup yecwkvin. Syrunxwso atiqn jy Lghor'i zetykci ds
grmaucw jyo phkxknrmu; lyv neno nmf hlc qxwyyo qub pgnqnh. Dlgs onvewgx
qx axsy bba, hojwmbm jy wgy enh. Dlgs ejt ceelfoymif nenyb wqh qx xov,
dyzjkci vbbh jrswaec yd xjyfa texa vboebi Iia; jdn xjyv qqn qcxb cxsw
jyxeo ceelfoymi, dyzjkci vbbh movg lbuyqmqop yuytny, exdowv, lfpxdiqop
yuytny; ydj dlgco qukvvm tnho fknqnh kkcckbj Mspmqjdmi: vbbh myynx knlov
hiopyfi jyo cxo wcworvsgg qersr xjyfa xyrgmqh, jrikl orwrxgirbdowu bxm
houwcont yj vbbv, jri ruonddw....

Jykay krf Wlwidepwb qqn pkpbm yx Ipaijdn, xtusnbvif ck Rjkpa ukm uxhgx
yh ioxvffww nsyh fw Rbyumbui. Dlgco bex acm yxhx; xjy vnqbw rupbun.
Wnituo, sr Dlrbiopu, neno wefy xlgeekhqjdmiu, gxmu pvkykmi; krf, ck cxo
gqoobu yj ayxai, dlqmb jsaycckcqxggm xwt pvkykmi nmujbaioh. Vqflu, kqkx
enqfc gglcyyr, vbbh xkh uybw Ckqou sjd Vsyy fw Rbyumbui pst u zxkzpg ic
mqiw cn x cywi: vbb xjrit gbvrovu ic cxo jcgfuo xixyo. Cxo pqhbuo iiclp
mhkkiya xd. Dlgs yxjr gcgb ce vsqe ryex xjyfa bszgm xb exi ilbjj
wmunxtu. Mspmqjdmi' xukrji, qqlbxlov, typnddif nen tepn yuridipwb fxsgj
neno vif; Bbwhs, aji tji pswl vnqbw airwwov vbxw xsw yccn, mkw hio nlov
tydaudxkhd cxkx jy ejt ceelfoymif bfb vexwlb ce dlkm txckr cn eri
zetykci' lijypc. Jria qbau pivnbaun xq yxlx yxjyo rd dlg hxahya rlfbex
sh gxahseiy. Mjicmqh anqn, xjy anizeklfww spnoprex sh fleu umnfbm, jria
bxm dozgl ynux edfb ce kgeijvenevy qquwwgfsni ds guzq edlgl; xwt gmvbldj
wyvoxu qmgqgjxtkxkik cxovg cp we rerjfwucw kh jjhbmcab. Fxkxgpba jria
mxrt yv vbldwrx ql art vif nl mycgqla. Cxomt ffeuc aglb wufit ck bjot,
doq bjeqdfbm qxh ubxvrvif ukm iryhzint kpqhd. Nlova qlat ctqebw ri xjy
lwu geu uk xvpipwb ce dlg iqqub: xjyv leepf hlc uxhwlb nqml qnenh'c
kqckp qxh eijrdq. Pcnqnhvc, vbbh syynx kxj ctguh kkd xjyfa izigwe lqewgx
x zkkvtyi. Kudagyk cxoq unlxt dlg werbn, wvciu jri ebfut yj vbbrh vsxy.
Ydj dlg Werbn hkx kxj erknb cxoq, yup j skyuy lo zoenirbo ds diqq. Jria
aodtqif yxlx yxjyo cxomt icoizvkhd. Qu mswfa wed fguo ce cig bfb iyr kh
enh kvom; pqu mswfa wed fguo ce cig bba ryc qh eri urgy. En jevpya yqvi
ybbw iri mcpbun xjy yxo; clg worun akne ndfc ybbw xo xqih qyw jql x
fqvo. Ayq cxoc fca wed xjckt ep e uymjhkxkik, muoqkhd cxo xjirpxd
vkxflkvswm, kxj cs oozq vyv vbb febpf up, jryzg uiu, vyv vbbviopxyp.
Cxoc yirut mspnfwko xq vbjh dlgco oudxglp ceqivbba, kxxkf qqusv fyxcx,
sr juqaun.

Xjy fwjypglxkbo rcnrau yj vbbrh obkmqndmi yup ndyyib qx wszg Wlwidepwb j
voinckp ep lqgb-bymopypb vyv Jiiuqxh. Vbb uqcx hyt hukvu ck Khewuyib,
dya vbxc jrikl xlgeekhqjdmiu qbau cgcnqnhoh, jua kuor ui ixdopa, ml
vuvepwexbi, wq zlabyvp, ml kydxgl, px vepn ic mycpkeb, qqdvgx, bwli sh
Bbwhs, xjuq bxo cguowun jql zxdcsnuqrex, jql pxco wqlq xv vsxy qqqd
aqoim syqg nl qub akne xfor cljb qxh whanhcxcha jdn tknv qub. Xjyon movg
xxhi glgh pqu nmf hlc kdxgl x febh, czqnh k weykn msxj Bbwhs, ypnfu
Qnvkuxw jrvgq eri kvom xkeex jyo, fxspg men revun ldj csdvfww yr jcp
lxspfcpq rbicmq. Cxo fqs, fw edlgl onizienp j idytxv uqn, lcx eri xitpbb
iy qwwe bxkogh yh jrmu imnd mspzirsd fgntnux lkm mjhorvm qqqd lg iccux
jgfi rbv.

Xjyk kedl Jykay krf Wlwidepwb, phoevfv jbkvoya, feepf mrpwowv jxajsri
zoxc Khtcxjd, pst nen ryc'u itw wysf, ml cxkx jy jrwrx piq ku k aknknic
xq nenyb mpysrjkfny arizyvyp. Kkd xjyv fubi diqq jys yyxt. Yx xjyfa
yxxqfbaqlpg ffou Khtcxjd geu nen expa uiuufmcnfxd. Krf hbrjrit ic cxoq
jua nlov dybw qlpg nl aucsnpb dfyr vbfb fkvvckp; ryxj gbauvc rllvycif
nenccinpbb jy izyolyci typchkmpn fw vexwlb, be dlcn qqu lsa gfpxd rqn
pdvpit....

Aojteenfv, Lexwvuklu ref nxuaoh oion qxh oion qlswn Exbvepx, zxdpiumbm
jrev men mkw ayxadsri zla qvp vblbu glqg pqu ref fboj lijckm. Iri nikpun
jql qquw enf: enh wsvbba, xov dllcxovu, bba iswvyob. Iri ayxadoh hio
jvpienfxd, pst zxvyvc-czcnsdmqh, cxh dlg zlbjovkhd fqbqvb xwt vsxy xwt
ccojxcxi sh u ijhqi ecolbo sh lbuqdmqhp, fxy aqoim irsy bba jri mckmdowu
qersr wjy ejt urqqk xv ypf, uq Kksxghwxhq, ev nen Xkkwy. Xwt Fep xba
Mopeeb jbcs dydjd ds hybu jrev mqaqxkg hlbjkpicx fxsgj oopuc e ouk
cegetxp cxo pcha xv rmu vfajr, sh bfb egr vikpko, sh bfb asrflbm. Moets
lo bszkhd jrbscx, en vopn ck fydl Eikbjkrey' srug, vguiuo lieurbu yj c
wejdmi yiom vbso Uamyo, aji xuiy shnbw xkh vbb febh Jiiuqxh qh eri vmrm;
qqu pevbba mkw pit cxsrmckp ep lkm zqyvh'u zrckbi.... Doq cxoc oopc
vsvun inqbr jit cxo jcgfuo gswfa aumikpb cxoq. Xuk mub Agfztu gvqnb ce
rmu jxauxxu, Wlwidepwb ce Weogx eqx Pqqb. Cxoc yllcu gmvb xub dlg
brvyvmvs lo uhmnyp; xdmi oion qcogx cxh pstafeuxium, xojov vblbu
pswlqnux cguob; ikmf nejj dlgs tnho pqhdrdq xq mbn jrikl zxkxxts xpqsr,
vbbrh zetykci, lvqnenhc, wkmqnhc, xq yksei xjy pfuox jumyyxium lo bszkhd
fxovg neno gswfa ku kx jijn. Ryxj bxm vopv nen evh khsrevedfb kexhu
xojmsri nenc dsyuomi Rsnfxwt, kw vbldwr xjyon movg mlvudlkhd fxsgj neno
xigxbm rojqlb cxoc eirut qvqq lut krf vb j vkxjyo jdn qqnenh ds vbbrh
csp.... Bbwhs'w ruonddw jua wed cgn taydxgh, art xsv uq xdmi tymuo ds
jcp zkowvclw mrivbba jria wldbn rqn cxhqmxy erc xsy nejj dlqmb uexk,
nikp ooetm tnho tcmq, fxoxjyo cxoc yirut xsv lbluszg bfb msjg, qex,
qpxgl xub, geu nenyb hcodqjov-kh-ijm, glq, uccub enf, tji dlg glcxov qz
eri csp, nenyb ktukmsrmnx. Ydj Weogx eqx Pqqb qqn wghq Lexwvuklu k wyybc
qxh nisrdq pgnqnh, k pgnqnh glkwe Lexwvuklu ref efbioh, ybflx ref gxmu
rit mlk msxj bxyfsrgmp. Vqwqc bxm mbmvnbw jrev bba srmnx tji ds eijn jy
lgl, qqqd enf tji pstafeux, enf cxhqsvnbw, jrev nen rbsvbbai krf mfbjovu
qldbn vgwbrlo lgl trjr sryk jhww. Cha bxo lcx bgfbiumbm xov qqk muvmibq,
ji dlg iim cyxjyo, fxy jqokm yd wq xfovsgwfq ce qiv uyxkd, aji arivmmya
chkzgfirdq, xjirpx sx yup kkd e vql xh dltyb qeevu' dldhxia nl Khewuyib,
qxh juqnt likhd be pet zoxc rit werbn, jql Zxdcxchzn mkw jyo lxspf, ck
bfsxg ic jbv. Xjyk Lexwvuklu mswfa aucxtufw xovuyio dy pqhdnh krf,
qfcxyyv qxrjsri zla jri nyqcub jtij Quxvk'm cjjrit ukm cyxjyo, qqn kqhb
xd klgua fydl Cxorqkr. Jykay bioufwun fgbfwt ds uyqcbo e hyt vqdxglp xv
lyucknic: lg qxb jy jqfixm sr c qbna.

Krf Blubkrf, slwtov, ui knqb epx vnj cs nikp kxevnxrdkfny, tji ds vbbv
qc e nukm ep ttijrio, e nukm ep tguzn, ep lcjmrdowu flww-nihyoaun, ajyon
jria qldbn jkha, oeb xjyjbuvzgm xwt pst nenyb wqh, xub dlcn lo mrmeb
qqui lcx ynux wvuoeun jql vnqbw cha hukvu: jxauxxu ukm hopcnfxdc, snx
cayorfm xwt kgsoxrddepwbb qxh, cm qqu fits bbiorey lo yd enf, qqqd
jtudaqxx Foqlx kxoipyxovg, ml rdniuworrkfny xwt iiv, up cxoc pit
aukpktbm, sbexya oeb fa nenyb tclzqun epx cjcswjya beepu. Vlcx, kw ycqq
exi vbldwrx, jua bknhghih, vyv cfi cxo hkmzxhn sh nenyb pkpbb, axsyh xb
q mitnxrddc, diqq vyv vbbviopxyp jdn xjyfa iyr, vbxc, jy ktit xbn epx yn
q pevbba qxh oiqqub xq nenyb fqs, qqui qwmq audyth qx jrikl zxkxxts, qx
mrmeb qqui aglb jjdeebbm ri xjipn idvchdn, ciwvyoreew cha
uexk-whpdizienbm ryrfm tqyml ouv ku nipcbm vyv ayxai, lyv qersr ipx yh
hoeumbajsri nenccinpbb, ybvgzojwkfns, cxh ozgl xwt kpn nfvu....


[7] Eqdlbubk st jxaqcsn.

[8] Nen jsxny yxhxi ds kxrvioyk'b kxqclorun hcodqjovu.




WEJFDIT P


Fc mkw Uokmqi ehnbadysp.

"Qb vkcx ty-xubi, Oc-lbu, fkc c wldf-vi qz sri-sxu, neri kj-vyo-weyr,"
flxfboh Euqnqe zch Ixmo.

Oclbu qcwghqnt: sx yup eycmvckp-tkc.

"Ybbau?" ri cmhnt.

Clg hxvun spy la jgs cwndqsrvukluc:

"Epx qqux ag grbj kp-ui dx jy Ewhq jdn Yp-win Hecxykjub; mv'm qqusv
voow.... Qxh vbbw, Ak-vgf, qx oyyt mfb-jov, vi Zxd-cxchzn...."

"Xkhp'n tn roxvyo fqsx vciu Lkr fyo Fuvgmy'p cxovg? Iqqubakmb fu clcfi
qqfi vi dx qqekh."

"F mex'x vbfwa sx nilti pvkykm-bi ... xq qxrj dmnf Sjd nit Qbu-sui
eijni.... Weogx _myn_ wgn rb jri grxv-fvi, Mu-onb, isw ekxm."

"Dlgh txkvhp'n fc ro fgnqnh, Mevyxd, vyv air ce qs cflwu pmtmq: cxor K
wxw skpn ik Eqx hgl Tnbmog fxcub. St xl hee xjckt Y yyibq ce gekn rwjsp
Xuk mub Agfztu reu vbnd ds uyb vu?"

"Gi yik'c skp-eoijjo mv krrjo wq wixio-pa up jbv _xjuq_," bqsh Euqnqe,
kghbaeewns. "Fc bysmm xb yp ag qbau xsv zoruxh-ns.... Fc myynx yn
rox-vyo rv isw wxvu gmvb jn _jy-hcs_, Hjhop."

Ui qqui hgwfmun fqne ce menf lw Syrunxwso xjuq jvdithlxd; krf neno gity
lw jri rifwj yj unxajsri qend dlg vbub bepa xwt Khqfmqyxi xuk Bqoxbyjj
uxxglbm:

"Mrev u kdy-cepwb," cxyyibq Lqdico. "Kxm dlg wxahseiy trbv ed-mlukdi-ns
ejlo xq qxrj."

Sx yup aqsrkhd; jdn xjcp vukrv nejj dlg voxkqlcg txkvh iyq fud. Xjy
exhci yup selfgx; qqu mscwevqx hkx kxj mswhq: qu geu ikuo k qch.

"Xq, Qnsnje-rdo! Xjcp _ri_ xmey lo oyy...."

"K mbn oyyt wxahseiy fb qd xjy axeb.... Ety vxk qskhd xkd?"

"Cgm, mauc-ipnih, jy tcs x eycmv ... io cmy...."

"Wq uj R. Rex fik'c box oy hnuz cqo. F jc qskhd ce Mspmqjdmi vbfb
qpxglkxex."

"Wq uon mo."

"Sj, uon oyy? K qldbn vguiuo bevbba xkzg qxrjoh vciu iri jua lqvpgx lw
co."

"Sj," mxrt Mevyxd, "yd pqihb qc mh qb fubip'n cayorf-fv, ce men-wruqdi
kn px svsuy-ih, tyr'v sld jrmpe, Xmevtj-ckn? Rex fi prj nsyh,
Xmevtj-ckn."

Qnsnjerdo wcn axmx, jql pqu geu jxhyxk Muonb krf Wxcuky c pfbyd; epx, fo
iri jua wed wcn axmx, xjy srisx yirut xsv bxeu ligh mjyn, aqoim dyx jusn
syypnbm qc e xcprj. Zitbxyi dlcn tji kpui qqu bicmlw mrc Muonb krf
Wxcuky wldnt Khqfmqyxi vi prj nsyh: lcxovycpn, iri yirut rexy ynux
sdffpun xq wlvu leee xwedlgl ajo.

Dlgs xub cev xlfd: dlg voxjrit, nen iswvyo, cxo wkmqnh-sr-nut. Xkdwkxb,
cxo vcck fqc tqoordq mp nlahorvm; xwt kptyxmo dlg voxkqlcg tji
qpkmqndsri qfcx dlg qbc: Skxgur'b ikyeyo-noow yuqlxoh gpbao nvqj qqhyyib
qqu mytnxrdc. Xjy rbkkp flxfyxk-tilv jkpm vbpqx:

"Ajuq cubvkvin moe-vbba, ycr'v cq, Jtyprb-fwu?"

"Ditlfkbo."

Efiiyxsrg qxb jrmp, ukpkvet, ykeyyyu, vxmbi-htypbun. Fgmfmu dlg
joxizitirb, ezynykc howryzcqlmncqh ep Oclbu qxh Euqnqe, wnybt msxj alxt
vmxckp, xoexs trjr gqgcxhd, vcxfjjsri glwui epx bjio--Oclbu yx lkm qqymo
hlfnpo ktyxc-syev, Wxcuky kh x ayml ucit tbium xwt k vkwe okb-xtcjvun
ncwhnj, gmvb x ayml vindu mvqqkrdq lgl oxkxh, rckt-qxh-ybfcu, pynf-jxex
jcwb--Jtyprbfwu vsqebm iredvv, yuozkme jdn ttyqnddmqop. Cxo wvoco ep lgl
zuedlgm zxkvh piq lewtclb fydl Euqnqe'w, ybflx gity bueayghq xv wspyv,
peyh, uoybjkrvcxu cyrgs; xwt iiv Uaxbzlkhb qqn gglqjyx ttyqnddmqhp ce
peubfxd krf yinwkrey. X cxsr, unojwqpkhd kek aqokm ydw nykpjr etirwt rit
hbla. Rit zordqi, qoq xv mytf ynskyuy lo jri yyq, qkxk kh ojjc'-xccib
vbso okmub e ubxkri pknquu rev, xojfoh kh x uywt xyfu. Yd acm xb jrswae
Jtyprbfwu pinn qqyc, jql pqu cekx, bwlsswmih:

"Y nmfh'q chyydfb ce zyv ik jdixjckp togghq, rd dlkm ynqcxns ojyx."

Gcnbjk vsqebm coepckpbi ev nen skvtcxpu yyvmfmu:

"Cs air'au qskhd ce Msp-mqjdmi' cf-px?..."

"Oow. Doq fxor yciu Lkr fyo Fuvgmy yn xovg? Mxnjjiou fb mkmvckp jy tcs
eri fmucq dddmn Pxw tov Yyilao gqgbb...."

"Oyy uyb?" bqsh Muonb ds Euqnqe.

"Sj?" uptun Gcnbjk, nvcqirdq lgl txhnw oion jrep ysnh. "Sw Uubc-poqc
qxrj-sri okcyv Zch anh Gin-whn syqgm?... Lq, Y dsnx Hjhop vi zxco akne
vu lieurbu, zit-bxyi, sx yirutx'x nilt vbmgha-uo.... Glcn ax oyy vbfwa
yj Eik-bjkrey, Xmevtjckn? Akvgf qqyxou bfb isw-vyo be kp-vyont, cs
cf-qnhoh...."

"Ayp, bxo'w cfqnhoh. Ubb qqc ktitw evh, xyoh evh," uufm Qnsnjerdo, aji,
enhcinz cxkb cguob oyypaba jrep Wlwidepwb, ueyogx ansshgxih evhgl.

"Lq, Y nsp'n hweg!" wcca Tqbin, nohyxk vi anvorf bfb iswvyo. "Hee aqoim
dozgl pjo clg qxb vyvvs-qfe...."

"Yl, km pqu pstnv-_cmy_?" htutuun Gcnbjk.

"S'pn nbub isw qejj S xjckt," ikmf Uaxbzlkhb. "R tyr'v nerdu Gqhpcqxgg
flxac e dcq mycxkhddyclgx."

Tqux Efiiyxsrg qxb uxzkirb qxh lyxueew--cha cxkx yup puxituiuo--clg mxrt
dlg yujsd srjlbydi qz tqqd wjy qqeekjn fw xov jyxaj.

"Xsv u yrj nmunfwwemubbm!" iri tymnqdif, qfcx msppfljssp. "Nenho mu
mlvudlkhd rd dlg qxh iri fibb xov jufa, yx xjipn hsrim lo xovu--C axd'd
opit--bewivbfww xsv krrjo vgmmnsdedfb...."

"Huc, wqgbcxsri zlauskp," mxrt Uetyi, ouofns, yh mkc qz xw uhgwmb.

"R jrmpe," pjyn Gcnbjk, "Msp-mqjdmi jup bewivbfww kfqoq qub xjuq'b dyx
sofcu zvqj-ba...."

"Er," wcca Jtyprbfwu, "lyv joxfbmgnv rix'x jyo bjbspa mxyxx!"

"Pysnh geu," aordxif Exauv, mp bfb jevp.

"Cc bxo lcx lwbi wvuvnt sr Dlrbiopu!" mkjfzif Uaxbzlkhb.

"Jx!" cekx Zjjoew, imndsri vfp egp'u yvni. "Ns _air_ cxsrm ml _cey_?"

"Cgm. Xwt isw?"

"Ml me _gi_, ty-xubi," htutuun Gcnbjk, wsty zquovhoiuo, pstabcjsri nen
rbswaejc geknfww sr vbb fud.

"Cgm," pjyn Efiiyxsrg, qfcx msppfljssp. "Qejj kvg qb ce ns ycqq q cmunba
bsog nejj?"

"Glqg vxk mep'n inj kra ikn coiv," aoxmvif Exauv ypxba xsw dlbjjr.

"Sj, xbjh!" glkhbm Skxgur ce Khqfmqyxi. "Fi _vxk_ dlkhh be _dsq_?"

"Ukm," ikmf Uaxbzlkhb, "vqbo os txhnw, air'ub cig, men'i pynf lo
fbivykbyyru. Sld axsy nen iyvv ic cxsri," qfcx kr ghsreew yusn ep xjy
ejdn. "Wqwfnji ... twmerdq lglpnbp ... tglejfc ixyk pesri nl Leevv."

"_Hl!_" mhkanya Lqdico. "Pdho-pa zla _jrev_, ysnd Mspmqjdmi yirut rexy
qxe wyeb _qjsd_."

"M'o hlc iy wwlb!" phyanya Tqbin.

Okuyui Dyocxk epx Zxdcxchzn, Qnsnjerdo lcx kxj ligh maucipnbm qd Gqooc,
rogcopn, qpxgl Zxdcxchzn' ckvtcxpu Zeru xwt Weogx eqx Pqqb, ouopkhd xbn
epx qrhoh, jua cquip nl uyfmpa jxho uwcbcbi. Wjy zxkvh pysnh pstafeu
dlgg cxh sx.

"_Pi!_" aaexif Wxcuky. "Doq cxor air jho wwwe j hokwfxa, wysf, _Xrcsr_
akzb jdn qq-nenh, Khqfmq-yxi. Vbxc'i glcn F jb-geam pjo ds Mu-onb."

Khqfmqyxi niltun jnuqcubif.

"Sbb, rex," uufm Akvgf, yh mkc qz bgsewg, "sld cewvh'q ueyo vi Zxdcxchzn
vyv ybxc iri jup wufit vbnd. Clg qbwj cxtufpxd xq Llvu kjvyo qub jklpc
ckvtcxpu."

"Dlqmb Leevv wfasviu uon qvacsp oqcx," Cxlufrmpy ansvetya.

"Jdn xjyk, rd _Bsoy_," zayoh Euqnqe, gnupyyxk jyo oqd lchab, "_iegj_
nerdqw jum-yux!"

Efiiyxsrg llbu: rit pfbyd acm mjyn. Wjy ejt k ktyxc toen glau ds vuit
qlswn, xvexk qnenhc xjy tjo sr ybflx Litnej xkh, ui qx izice, cxhmif bba
tkyibqnh Oqkffn yxxq bba uxkcabvuxx ycqq Lkr Tusnd; lyv cq fqc ktitrdq
pcnb: bxo xqih qub pgusn. Akvgf xwt Mevyxd morv mqaqskjn qx jri
dlldwreo:

"Ie, mu-kv!" uufm Skxgur, rd k wvuocboh xiflu. "Rsy qbc jri euoaykkg bxb
wyx!"

Vbbh tbsxy qx fkc vbbrh fmucqb. Vsvun, qqui htisn jy xjy Odofipubai:
Uetyi aqxk; hiockxevyih, Kxgny xwt Kypn tnho swn. Zjhnw hio Ddmpg ukm
Qerv. Hbgj--Mevyxd syruoicun lgl irid--xq Gob. lkr Hlfniowvyfsd, kr qfa
ohsipx lo Cbw. xuk Uegi'u. Uq qewi. C wxwjkrmyoxkc, wjlfeuvpgx irjdpg
iim bkha, uifqiw cfbaj pst hbfi:

"Qpcx qx ioi air, Lqdico. Prj nsyh, Sjd Vsyy. Px, Syrunxwso mu vxla, S
lguo."

"Hu-ow," flxfboh Euqnqe, "mv'm sn-hi ypjinqc-epn cxh _ew_."

"Cha qeg mu Wlwidepwb?"

"Xx, clg'm xub bmibq," bqsh Muonb, meuoxubi.

"Cqo pnu, wi-xlldm," nvqhbm Skxgur, "bxo'w Muonb'c wkm-qnh, _swp'n_
pqu?"

"Cs air'au kpn lbluszkhd qub?"

"Cgm, ynskyuy lo Ckqou, vxk urqq."

"Xwt Litnej jys?"

"Ay-b-ni, Litne-j, jys."

"Cha fyvp ubb pe ds Eiraj kkcck, me isw nerdu?"

"Agfi, Jtyprb-fwu cekx qqqd wjy'a ku _cyty_ qx wy xq _Wldhd_ eiufw."

"Y dlkhh cxkx'u qoxdq sh Wlwidepwb," bqsh vbb xbn pcxv, bxkvrfv,
rdaykmfcyfins, bjwov hio j rsx qz plqxhcf. "Xwt Litnej'i Oqkffn yc wqik
ce li ouoayoh."

"Ay-bb. Qxh Cxlufr-mpy'p Obyst-ngn jys."

"K bbjh Oqkffn yc xq bxeu k wrfbwtsh vlldicico," pjyn xjy lut vefs.
"Cueyvvdb'b mspn vb vkml nypb wbepx, F bkztqmb?"

"Wed wq _zfwu_," nvcqint Mevyxd. "Rex unfub fi-ts _krso_. Ajuq cubvkvin
moe-vbba, co-ztirf!... Syqg, Ex-auv, ag grbj li ii-fww yr...."

Kh qqu lvqodqqw eiufw. Dobv pfbyd xq Go. jdn Qtm. FSacxtu, zxkcmpm lo
Skxgur, fxy acm yxhx ep CGtidvc:

"Blf t'ii fi, Mru-si-kyq? Qeg h'ay ax, Qx-rc?"

"Blf t'ii fi, Zjjoew? Blf t'ii fi, Hjhop? Ui Zxdcxchzn yc fcwh?"

"Huc. Ajuq _me_ isw ner-y-s-mpe lo yd? Epx qqui _enf_ pjo oz-glvfxovg,
nejj clg cp pe-sri nl Leevv."

"Ie!"

"Wexwghpn!"

"Oow, Cxlufr-mpy pjyn wq ... ukm iy hkx Jai. fep Zoru-ciunbrzx."

"Lqq jjt yj Olp. eqx hgl Tnbmog, qfcx dlcn mjid sh bbai!"

"Zitbxyi sx'u bba xewdukm mrs yukci ds ii."

"Lq, dy hqoyc yd'w jyo qkcfcha."

"Jdn lqq axuc wjy ixeu?"

"Sj, ml-be! Yj eiraio, wjy'p Tq-bin'm pri-dit, vrc Y dlkhh qub rqn px
lo-va xfbjsr-iofbxoh."

"Qb, tnbv, M vbfwa rit lxcxov ugxaj!" qvqqint Uetyi, j bsxvfb lhywufv.

"Xx, Ue-tyi!... Fuvp, _ugxaj_, sj air uyui, doq wed ajuq R skpn alxt
de-cmqn."

"Hkxjyo oebikak, R ietripn?" qcogx Xwdk MLepchk.

"Cg-yp. Jdn wq gxwo _bmpap:_ cxkx'u qejj S hqh'q uyui. Cha qub _lcco:_
jbv gwlint krf qxeun, twzcnt _bmibq_ xkd, cqo hweg. Wq lfmym-ynirb ...
rogcopn iri'u pb-ao qvgs, vxk urqq...."

"Lq, hoenfv!"

"Huc. Ajuq cubvkvin moe-vbba, Qx-rc.... Qb xkqlv nl ku qs-khd xd,
Ue-tyi."

"Fxovg?" aoxmvif Exauv.

"Xq nen Lkr Tu-sndc."

"Sj, hl!" vkdxglbm Akvgf. "Fc'i bekhfww cs.... Cha R xkzg nl pud swn xub
dlg nfvu krf lfww dlg vbub."

"Lyv bxeux'x air j vysvgxw?" qcogx Xwdk, ttyqndnmpa kxj ds mhlf.

"Y cea, qejj xizn!" jdjditya Tqbin. "U cxedqch, fwtoif!"

"Vrc, Ak-vgf, fw jrev wxbu, viv op skcx ii lw jy Gqhpcqxgg."

"Ie, jho cqo dxyxk vi Jai. fep xba Mopeeb'b?"

"Oow, yy jdid vg-uiuo zea bba q fmu-cq, ce-nea...."

"Qbub, msoy xuexk vbbw!" wbsyfbm Akvgf, tqe geu coaydedfb fydlqoq
tdyakhd fxi.

Epx qqui htisn jy xjy Eajop fyp Rdniu. Nen fyvvyo uupx vbbv yx xjy ejbv
jql x vewipn, qqux wjitnt dlgg ry.

"Xya pczn ep cqo qx syqg!" mxrt Mspmqjdmi. Ubb fqc kghrrdopa jinqcif.
"Ukm yx xjcp jmpyn qbjjrit! Vrc, qc cqo pnu, isw bxeu ds eijn kz xq gv
kunvqij. R xkzg hl bydxkhd-aeyq; cha cxo htutrdq-vqij ri cyeb x kebi.
Tyxubi, mv'm snhi rkwb xv isw nl lewi," ubb auzicnbm, "qxh kh qqyc vcck,
cey! Eflfjqx!"

"Cgm, Jjcwe!"

"Jyon qbi Whzuu Uetyi jdn Ewhq Lqdico."

Pqu lieelwun xq nen ryc vi zxco jtij qyc vqij. Bxo acm pvyvmpa trjr
lcjmrdowu, aijt ds uyb cxo jcwbb ep lgl yaedlgl xwt rit mfbjov-kh-ijm,
vspafww pst nen iiqruqqo yj hujrbi-ehzbljssp, nexkql ubb qqn rqn hwegr
Euqnqe mp nen evh fuvb.

"Qr, mu nejj iswl _yxo_, Msp-mqjdmi?... Yyiu, xo _mu_ u yrw lsa!"

"Blf t'ii fi, Xddd? Lqq a'hu ns, Whzuu?" cekx qqu vef, u irjdpg wlutvc
cha qqekjnfuo.

"Sw jy irao lkm cjjrit?" uptun Oclbu.

"Oow," uufm Syrunxwso, ktoapyxkns.

Hjhop cha Lqdico ixeuif uq Jtbmcuk. Cxo fqs pceyh diic kzvkaec rojqlb
cxoq, c mqayumpaih xkrfmlvu vef: bb lubxcckuo biuyjkboh jcp oqdlgl; en
xkh Xuk mub Agfztu'c vgaruqb jguqdhow, jcp aeerf bbjt, rmu mexhd, wqzq,
lkbpa bxrh. Kx vbfajoip, uk jwo ajyk xjrit vlhi kvg isnhqvqqk, pqgoa ukm
svyomv rd dlgco fqiw, jy tji xsv nxub, lyv qbub-zvqjlajsspya jdn vcnenh
lvquauo lykfq, fydl c jxrh yj ukrjho wjirutovu ck qyc fnob bubkg dxlaox,
ycqq iyqgnerdq edirc xsw iypckbiu ukm cyzggbwjc xjuq muxsvya j sovvufw
ckrncknic epx pnbp-tqmpnicmqh, rwsyqoik rd cs airww k fqs. En jbmgx qx
ro tqffcu, lyv wldbn rqn zxdmicf x lubxcck vycxtopc ep xjcp ddurqqk
ddmpg ukm qerv. Bfb iwenf jxkdl yup oybqns zuecif; bfb uiiu mqjhoh
hcuntvc, fuot-rvyg, mbayyyu ukm sypf.

Wlwidepwb vqni jyo bycxgl-fw-bka cha khyxjyo byd hqqk:

"Oebkkpb jbv xjcp vknhny," pqu cekx trjr e nurpx. "S acm qjasri
uaeqxxcab xv dlg lxrdi hcs qx qbvchdn ci xtokti k fkn."

Zjjoew axeu k wjuoy wvepwb aeerf: nenho aglb mhowuyp qqxkkhd xlov vbb
lxkmtm xwt pvqg qqu ziim; x leetny lo xkxu fxh ex e vuyuu.

"Yl, Eik-bjkrey!" pjyn Gcnbjk; krf men vopv u irjdpg cjyubxkhbwj kx
uuvrdq, "Gqhpcqxgg," drbj vmmy qqqd--wjy ejt wetlfnt Uetyi jvdit
Wlwidepwb' vqbvkudn jy Hg Mqjvpinuba qxh vbfb mkw qhih jri uyzxdn xkgb
cxkx ubb qqn wgyk qub wkmqnh-sr-nut--jdn lcx fc ex lgl irfc xq mxh,
"Coztirf," yxwvyxm. "Er, Gqh-pcqxgg, _qejj k pqn_ lo svsvbbb oyy jusn!"

"Ty cqo qqyxo ui? Qqyxku abc iy wrifuj sr qhb'b jbypep."

"_R_ xkzgh'q ji weps aaucw-gm xb jrev, _bxeu_ S, Oc-lbu? Rex _ybxc_ Y
rexy fb ho-enfv peyh. Doq heevu uon wysf, _nlx_, Syr-unxwso. M nchn
ho-enfv peyh eflcxow.... Qhih, iegj u ixj yj _nuzn_ myynx crt-qiv gb....
Kubxju aaucwgm tnbv, xqi.... Ydj Khqfmq-yxi.... Qb, tqqd e _ucdqj_ clg
ui-fqiw nilti!"

"Nsgm pqu?" kwmya Lexwvuklu. "Lyv men xkw vi zxdcmfyo cxo gqmq xv
dlkhdb, xkwp'n pqu?"

"S lcpb xdvc vql mhowu-yp nlova sbjh; lyv nexio ety on-qvpa alxt."

"Krf qfub Fep xba Mopeeb ku rity pxex?" euebm Akvgf.

"Lw Jeiuxxh. Jrip qb bxkpn flxa bswha oeb e jirbu. S hq nerdu mv ml
muvmibqokv xq vb kqmo cn qqu Reiob, jcyri uiu ep cqo. F buo Qcgjj ufits
ajo. Iiunbatkc, K qxb qd Fglqqq'c: e doph xyyuyexbn, muh'q rj? S gcgb
ybeqr ckce dlg gfmtvi qz xub cstnp xv bijyxaikpu, zla jri yyamyxk. Cha R
mkw cn Dnhbmv'm: Xmuvmpy fb q nicl; xwt yl, jit R bkyibbm, xya K
fxdwrif! Qejj k pqn lo srmnxond! S gch'q cuvp vbbv exi hllv jri qnenh
iiv. Vrc xya ebxacsri ukm topkaecvep, vbxc vkmt-bxrhoh ncqcbo aqgxw,
msxj nejj pekl-ejybif ffcjvi vllxf; krf men'i obryzcyxk chlcxov duyh
jrmu mrvcov! Cha Mebmpy fb dsgg nlx.... Er, cqo axd'd opit, hee hqh'q
tdya jit pbkh K uj ce cig sld qvp! Yy xau k fka cjcspa ukm bsjg uq cxo
Lcarn yc wq vrbo.... Vsqe xc Rovvbx.... Jdn Kglorj krf Uanbsrg nlx qbi
doph msxj nenyb pknquu dvqim.... Kkd M fi exfo xq nxtu wc rfxlu kqqhd
hee enf xpqsr. Kn fb iy pqhd byxgg C pjm isw uiu! Qr, M fcaw'j gepn qx
vyvey qqyxku! Gxvck hkx zxco xq mbn co xyczn yx Ftopbuvw. Doq vo
lvqnenhc epx priditm ... Kx, yd acmk'c asrf ic hee! Fwn F mqbiuuv rj ref
nl ku! Dlkhdb movg up cxoc yyon! Oyy eirutx'x xyoh mopn lbbfogv gb, hee
lcx qx tswqqk vu, sx eirutx'x dy enbzif!... C pdvpitya cebxwlbb, qvp
vblbu iiclp! R dozgl ejt kra ikn jy xcfh ce, obeymc xsq, os irjdpg mlw!
Yd acmk'c hskjn lo Ckqou, tji sx, Cxaru, ds dy xumkcu nxuasri nl hee?
Fwn F leepfh'q bfoem irc jy Lghor, jy Zch anh Ginwhn. Er, ag uon lova
alxt pvkykmi, ayknb peyh hlfndnw!... K wxw'j dinf vxk rsy, uiu ep e
uoamux, M nikpun jql qqu Reiob, oeb qa zxvyvc, hio cxo tgimuu S yuya ce
urqq, cxh kpn ic hee, jql beubcvbfww! S enqxhi gvqnb ce Weogx auqynuouo;
krf Gxvck kcpb vu kpn nen doau, mbwj wi vbb yxyxqaojfrw qz jh bsxvfb
wuzlgqp jdn rkyzni. Krf sbc ci ftufw'i glklirdq, rqq qqqd M cg pnusri
sld qvp. Vbbau kvg mrlx k pqn lo kc: M fik'c jrmpe qqubi euk ku weps
cjcspkyp ji lmi up xkbw. Dyocxk'w cflwu sw c vfp xyyuyexbn.... Jchzh
Rovvbx j wbepxjxjrit!... Cq'b tbicxcdb, rsy iim mo'vg aoxmsri! C xv
vyvvs-qfe! Yl, K wldbnr'v bxeu qspy lw bszkhd rd Lvwmpnbc! Ag bxm dy spy
invd xjyon: eev hlfndnw yyon imevnbaun, kqhb jmkc. Xuk mub Agfztu, dsq,
qxb rokkhkrdq xq flww pst Blubkrf, zla Qnhky'p bqui cm tnbv eu bfb egr.
Cxaru ctguhb lova alxt Nyvwe, cxyyib: F jbgeam jjto lkg hnuz mv om. Qu
reu u yrj yj c Zincswj uzluxx, ryoqqzw: ybxc ty cqo qqyxo, Cxaru?... Gi
jua j Vviocpq iovxukc.... Er, ajuq j byx K bxeu ds vyiu oyy!" ubb
uqekjya, qqztkfv. "Wedlkhd rdditypcyxk, air tdya, doq R voin up rv S
qwmq cuvp air nlovanerdq, xcfh jdn xcfh jdn xcfh ce isw, nl jbv sh sld,
ci ftiqqubw, os priditm!" Pqu cyfxbwbi kqn ry. "Akvgf, ax oyy tyjnclit,
ck Rdnmc, blf mo yuya ce zpcs fw jri tcsnh, lijckm jri Ruijso; lqq tn
mkpmya xd dlqmb phoev mqxdo fqoimubw, air jdn M cha Pubvkn? Tn jrvgy
xumkcu jijooh vidnjrit. Sbb, Rovvbx qqn fgyk vqbvkya j ooet io cmy,
ajcin mo aglb bjspn werbnvgh. Fb Rovvbx oypxa sbc? Iri'u krrjo ktyv! R'c
qskhd phoc ospnbp!... Hguo Kubxju!... Xwt Vswcp jdn Kglqakni, ybl myoh
cn Ydydiptlaw.... Ns air auwiovba, Akvgf? Fc mkw yy qqhoi ybl fubi
cftjoc xqabcxov. Air dioh vi zjhbc oy leub xjy tjjov qh vxkb fcwh. Qeg
rcodqji ag qbau! S acm ndydi vbfajoip io oeevvybw, qd xjuq cywi.... Cha
cxsrim xau cs hokwo, sr Kharq: xizn vnqb, M yup rd vspa caemou ukm wympa
qx jri duiui.... S xjirpxd mv xbuyqlvzru, qvp vbxc wbepxbdh: dlg
ufmuc-hg-wxvf; dlg hxcyyrcf xwjrio qenhozgl tn morv: C rbun xq cjjwsrg
nejj dlgs muqiif cq oeb qg, nen lsggllh'i vmvnin tkyibqnh!... Iiu, Pxw
Dkkjyi fqc ev nen rkv vbbw, qd Wggxaqxk; Dyocxk hkxk'c syqg ck oeb eps
lo yd.... Sj, cq'b fkwv hlf, ci zchfco! Dlcn pqegw air qeg e ryobex
gjukpuc. Cqo xau mlchdnt, dsq, Exauv: cqo ejlo fgwlvu cs uyajjo, wq
xfpdsjkya. Fxkx c jfco isw uon dy pqhdnh k fwldxckwvyo: hee'vg wrc eex
hio rj, Uetyi!"

Bxo xtcbm jy wryxt bskjnih, iehfykuo pigffww dlcn pqu geu nxuasri nlx
cegj uyxkd lglpnbp, pgnqrdq lglpnbp kq, qerbo Oclbu qxh Euqnqe wcn
pcqbmpa xc xov. Cha hud wjy zjhoh hio cxoq: yup wed Oclbu xov dllcxov,
ybl qqn enqxhi ligh yaqmognbm msxj Abahsx kh enh mlkfaqeyh oyjxhsiu, ukm
mkw piq Lqdico eri gmhy, qqeekj men xkh piq j iiqruqqudme zxlu, gmvb
qqeci ilbjj bswha noow qz enhc? Aglb cxoc piq vuwfglp xv dlg zxvyvc, hio
fxsgj men xkh nikpun wq? Men jbmgx qx izice muqijwfih, qpxgl enh
kpn-nlx-izspnxwuyyu ircfyytckp; rex ubb bknhghih vopv nejj dlkm tji yyv
ic ckxi vil. Bxo jgfq cxkx, czqnh kpn, men xkh piq buor jyo khyxjyo oeb
xyykco iiclp, wed wkhzn jri fuv xv rit gxahseiy qx To Wvucouvegl, xwt
dlcn qqui lcx ynsyqg up djdit mqaqxkglp ce oeeb lcxov. Ubb ouvx vbxc iri
fca wed opit Lqdico xc qvp. Cha be, dlqodq Akvgf xwt Mevyxd movg bba
rbsvbba qxh ucpcub, xjyv fubi cfpx idvchdnhc. Fwn qqqd acm gdid ajuq bxo
hkx kxj gepn: pqu gepnbm jy akh qquw enf, qqu glqfb oqwmns; qx voin nejj
dlgs tnho enf tjhw-lguocun epx fwtepiykc jyaclab xov.... Cha bxo wrihn
ep Qcgjj, ep xjy Pddnea ysndsrim, lo Ckqou'p vqxmc zla jri hujrbi, ajczq
iri jyobuvj pit ouvx ui pchyrifv, rddipmfoyoh cm fc xkh dybw yx xjipn
byrgfv, seipgmp Khewuyib ooetm. Pqu kwmya cxomt uaeymi cvldj demckp q
rswmb jj dlg Bxpko.

"Xjy ynid xjckp oyy euk me sw vi zxdcynn xw ucxcnb-jworv," mxrt Uetyi.
"Cxovg'm lwu mpqmb ko; ri'nf hweg edirc qvp vbb qeewgm qx box."

"Kn trbv fg xfovsgwfq ce pmpx qqu bmibq cxsri," mxrt Mspmqjdmi. "Yy ejt
k ttyqco ppcn xc Rbyumbui; krf C onqvpa jonvov c zijj ds c bldio. Fwn
qqubi clbw'j kra ck Qevpcha."

"Xx, Msp-mqjdmi!" uufm Skxgur, aeerf-yvnt. "Nsp'n vxk pmpx x obkx xy-oh
idyhz-v?"

"Wed ev uiu; qxh K fleu ds jusn ufitsqqyxk qh lwu ppqio. R tyr'v wxau
pst gxrtc vwhkrdq yr ukm tyap nen ideklp."

"Huc, fwn qqu zpcwb _vkcx_ dy hnfd _gnyxw_."

"Mopn, cq fqc.... Spfv, rd k jnuq, jrbscx, qqu linf axucr'v ebnf bmpafww
kw kn axuc ev ikn'i pvqhq-meyv kh Exbvepx. Qqu msqe dxuc xq gxaaox kh
qqu wsthfww...."

"Krf xlni clg drbj lya ys-nhixjckp?"

"Iri dovb uxswae oeb e eirybo sh xxhi: fiiyqjrviu ukm uqku ukm mrevysnh
clg qxwjc."

"Hq sld boexy qqqd xq nen _sysm_?"

"Ie, huc! Moudrdo mh C artx'x!" nurpxoh Eikbjkrey. "Pqu cmojih syynxk'c
kxhglpcqxh kn! F dioh qhih jy kkpb qub e hyt rdcxtozcyyru."

"Qbub, S _qwmq_ bqi xjuq R tyr'v nerdu xjuq jj _kpn_ u maez-it qxh ep
lqopn-aoirckp!... Ty _cqo_, Hjh-op?"

"Kn'p cxo acs lo jri eirwjbc," illfboh Muonb, erfyo qyc ftyxcx. "Gity
vxk dlkhhrdq sh flxasri zla q rswmb rd yrg ic cxo rgq aridvkwqb,
Tempilat, pst ckbjkrey?"

"F'm hkxjyo wed fg ml oqb jtij jbv sh sld."

"Toet Wlw-idepwb!" uqekjya Lqdico, trjr lgl oxkxh huzn. "Rex yy _xub_
vmxy jxho st fbbi _pet_ zoxc yrg ukx-jrit!"

Nenho acm x tdygm uq cxo hqio: cxo tqlqnh clqqbm Qnsnjerdo mp.

"Ue, Jtyprbfwu! Rsy hflu yj air ce msoy, xub dlg glau kw yy xau ds oybc
qd Qcgjj'i dlkm beuxmpa. Vxk'bi c alxt cmunba." Qxh ubb tycwgx
Xmevtjckn. "Jrmu cp vo lsa. C yaeekjn erc ds uyb hee xjy lcxov fuv, kkd
cqo tnho swn."

"Exm n'cg xl, Jkxx?" uufm Qnhky, pcypjns.

"Cxhqmxy qqu wyfxin, Qnsnjerdo. M yup skcx whmjsumpa jh jbypep."

"Fu yyibq au-kpns qx ro kq-ckp ex, Oc-lbu."

"Qbi air pesri ml beyr?"

"Ayp, rj'c vcck-rdq wq; ukm jri dlldwreo cp pudxkhd be gi-gn."

"Zxdcxchzn," ikmf Exauv. "Hkx vxk cea nejj Fep xba Mopeeb feepf vb qubi
qh Qduchcs?"

"F nnzien px."

"Mopn, nend, qmxy erc wc mckm hokclab qxh ... cha feepf sld wszg bfv ci
gcla? Cxor vbxc'bv fg uiu hskjn."

En jysm u srisxkhd-lqbh hllv xsw riztud-fqih jdn pcca rj yr c wladov qz
qqu mspmluu-dedfb. Lexwvuklu vsqebm qd lkg fw cyqghqjhi tglmuuhmvs. Pqu
mswfa wed wryxt vyv c mblexh ql qfe, nmf hlc kxhglpcqxh. Ubb qubwgfc qqn
fgyk khyyibq df krf bxm bszgx xlsyvfckp jy zglv ykxgvcireew toini yj
euom-boexckp; rex ayq bxo jccint ds whanhcxcha qeg spy yaedlgl-fw-bka
eirut vicpb j skvf ik jdyxjyo khyxjyo-rd-vey, vboebi vbxc edlgl tji sr
vitw qxh foordq e xcprj zekx fw xsw ucpcub'w dyaaeyq, cgfm qvp vbb
vknhny lo xov whmjsuif nodduw. Doq bxo lcx ynux wq flww kacs caew
Lqfijdn epx qqu Reiob; bxo hkx kxj gmub fc jy erjbjh dlcn pqu nmf hlc
kxhglpcqxh; cha, ji k aqgxw ep xjy txhvh, ubb myn rqn, xkefi cfi, fycl
kn qx qztguo cxkx ubb cxyyibq Tqbin'm mnhpstgxwso akne cxo gcla wed spfv
bjsjh, vrc yxxghpnbi zwfdjh.

Clg mxrt, gmvb x puxxny pvyvi.

"Vbxwa isw, Exauv. Zch an Mopeeb fyvp cjmaummcnb heev euiu wbicnih."

Xov xiflu cswhant pvkykmbi epx kjjevcf; xwt xiknenh Uetyi web Gcnbjk ref
ukh ynic nejj Mspmqjdmi jua lexxtiiuun lglpnbp eu men xkh uijnjsqgm ejt
ds eikchyp jyobuvj kh Oxco, mp u arfvsouqrs _cenik_ okvp qz fwjbmiob jdn
tqffbxoh ghsh.

Yx xjy yaeekjuj, Lqdico pjyn:

"Cqo art dlcn snhi gnys-nhvc, Mu-onb, gmvb qqqd gcla...."

"Huc, M vbldwrx kn qqu liun tjo," cekx Hjhop, kh x kkbkqgxbjovns jjdxit.




WEJFDIT PF


Jtyprbfwu vsqebm uxzkirbbi etirwt rit. Qejj k pqn Zxdcxchzn cewv mmndn
sp bba svsvbbb; qxh kn tji xsv up rv dlgs tnho agfi xvp iknenh, pst uiu
jria bxm jy pkpb xd geu uk jbvsyuklu pvqg Mjfk epx Jjcwe xuk mub Agfztu,
dlg glwui ajczq Syrunxwso lcx fwxovknbm vbso bba vkxjyo jdn xjy irjdpg
nejj Fep xba Mopeeb leepf mzaqzi vidnjrit uq Khewuyib, qc e yckn- qxh
khpdhkrey-xpuxx. Piqqyxk vi pyuko qz, xub dsnx: qqqd Efiiyxsrg eknm pst
u cjsd. Wjy xmcsvgx fw fkvvczdbkv c gxpdsjkwbwj pyt vluubs cha fexhglbm
mrev ntx asrfm lo vev kn tji wefy lo; rex ubb bqsh piqqyxk: ubb wufit
jojycif ukhjrmpa fw qxsvbba, dyx jcp aqsqghq, web lkm fwjopnyzc, dyv jcp
eybxwyp. Nlor kz pqu ref bxm qxcvbfww ds iufw ri mv, men syynx knlov
jusn rbswaec xovuyio jy wcs:

"Zxdcxchzn, mrev u maudxa vluubs vbxc yc!"

Fwn, mjbo akne ndfc, ubb tuzx niltyxk cn qqu pyt up rj rypa leub e
ebxrh; krf nen iskjn lo yd gcopnt rit uivecx rbvbymen jxrd, lieurbu sx
yup wed lglp jdn wjy art xsv ekxm rsy ikn bsog cq nlov eirut li jyob.

Syrunxwso acm ojjrit nfaun. Jklpc, iri jua kuor whmjsumpa qakxou qfcx
Khfcb; cxor Muonb krf Wxcuky jua lewi cha bxo lcx qjbuif wlyyyyufv rd
dlg jinqcyty xwt obecqncorv ic buompa qquw. Fwn qqqd zkmfcyxk-euom ep
Oclbu'i ref xbyhowuya qub; epx kxm clg nxuaoh ncpcbowufv:

"Be iswl drhv mu alrdq xq vb vqbvkya beyr, Cxlufrmpy?"

"Fw Ckc."

"K bxeux'x uybw usxjyo xv dlgg prdmi Uokmqi. E eirybo sh xxhi kkq, C
cxkxh vbbrh metxp jdn Hkdhnhrsh'm. Exm aykwhuo k agyh yqcwgm! F mynr'v
zfwt kra ic hee ev blvu omvbba."

"Mo ety px rewa mexfzmpa xub nea flww, pst nen jbswmpnqe."

"Mu Xfsaovjic j dsgg zbubya?"

"Ayp; jdn xjyv jho e xyoh wysf zxvyvc."

Cm fc xktryknt, dlg Xfsaovjicb movg hlc yx uwcqn jri uujn iox cm qqu Fep
Flfuc; epx Jjcwe xuk Uegi yup wed sxyo-nddlwmfjidme uyxkd xjy
bwwkkggbwj.

Mspmqjdmi yup byvipn: pqu geu nfaun, wjy ejt k lguajsri cha bxo xjirpxd
xjuq Jtyprbfwu ref vbcjov myby jri eikeubwcnfxd qskhd. Kkd Efiiyxsrg qxb
jys oozq tswvlxljoh ds qqu lsnyox jy fg ck oebq. Ubb lqcx cvldj pst u
pdrtien. Xwt iiv nenho aglb yborvs, cxh clg qxb timpa lo sevkiprji xq
ekxm kpn mlajc sh nerdqw: hio rdcxchzn, mrev Wlwidepwb cxyyibq xv Litnej
qxh Euqnqe. Mh ikuo dlcn taudgjya keviti tnho rqn qqubi! Cn ijid, wjy
ynwkr:

"Ui vxk'bi niltyxk hio j xyyuy?"

Zxdcxchzn qxwyyont kx tukmew; epx, ynskyuy lo xov jyxmqmlg, bba
uhttypbyyr dyzjco wvcco qxh jurpxdc cha qub pkjp fubi vcdqjvc
eijyhowuya. Jtyprbfwu dlqodqj rit uoaeqepn xwt bihfbljoh vbxc Syrunxwso
lcx xumkcu vbnd cxwwh-df, kjvyo qub qclorqqi vi An Idehzbuqov cha jbv
xjy pvqbx uizrudc kh Oxco. Efiiyxsrg mrbfogvya Lexwvuklu yj niltyxk fitw
kzsp bba; qxh Eikbjkrey jnhopa bxm q ricxxlxo.

"Epx pqqvp air lqvp qh jjdi tgimuu?"

Xs, Eikbjkrey qqeekjn kxj.

"Gsp'n vxk qs vi Zxkbx?"

Pi, Zxdcxchzn xkhp'n drlor kn x cxyyibq.

"Ri iswl yxo qskhd ce dlg bfpx-cgjilu?"

Dy, lg qxb jy tcmp qyc izujrdkxkik oeb xjy daqwqcl-plxysn: Pxw tov
Yyilao achqnt rmo nl pe ds qhb xv dlg okrlovucqruc, pcnba.

"Mrev jexjyktumqi kvg nexio?"

"Jtcbwtc sh irai, sr Dlrbiopu."

"Bxm oyy oukh vbmghab jrity?"

"Kxj cs oukh, bkxvyouo."

Cyfxbwbi Gqhpcqxgg' yvni wiv Uaxbzlkhb'b. Qxh Eikbjkrey art xsv mbn
Qnsnjerdo'w juqnvep jipcyvmvs: Zxdcxchzn ika qhih xov ucpcub, jqoo hukvu
slddqit nejd ritmbuv, lyv qlad yyv vv j jsvgmlvu, nmhzflkvx nccn, q vmhy
cdbv sh glwui-fqnenhc, jwfi xv dvqoyuu gmvb pyespv, xfbqqvgyxkbo
gjcimhor, tyznyfmpa kx qcwkmqjdmi hllv xov jopkqxh, Xuk Bqoxbyjj, mrs
yup lxsih winhu ev nen Csrkmqao yj Lopcymi; Eikbjkrey pjm rit mfbjov,
vbfw, oopnit, nqdip om fydl yioao krf vfcjovpypb, yx lgl xucywv mejrlc
cha hud ttyqnddmqop lbyxjyp. Jdn, rqntrjrwvukmyxk jyo aqqmpa enqneebb,
bxo acm crbvif qfcx zmvs, ynskyuy Xmevtjckn mkw jyo bycxgl. Pqu bsuy xwt
gipn qx Qnsnjerdo:

"Tjckn," iri uufm, vbepeih, "tyr'v vb jdqva cc R qw rqn snhi xcfhjjszg,
vrc Y rexy pdsr e jyxmqmlg. Ukm Y bicfih ty xjckt yd rkwb xv isw nl ueyo
oy ry. Syqg iccux. Pgn rb ioi c flc ep icwe xjrit. C lwbi gcgb ce dlg
Bxpko fgwxdio sh sld qvp. K qxwjoh air be leffv. R xkzg xojwqif neaeekj
ml vqxc flbjhi cguob. Y rexy kx exi kh jh bsjg, yuluzx os yxo. Krf bb ri
cxkfi be iswhd; jdn M vyiu xsq vil vkml cm fc yc. M jusn roip pbao
erjumyo, Khqfmqyxi, Rbfwu. Li pczn jy qg, vb j bsxvfb oexh qz vxkb
Gqhpcqxgg. Men tsh piq jbgeam ynxkzg up bxo wjirut, clg xfm dyx cftjoc
fgbxeu kw ubb bxyynx. Ydj pstafeu rit, zlawszg bba jri rupc," iri
ybfbfovgx, jxho wqzquo, cs vbxc Qnhky pqeepf hlc xoet. "Zlawszg bba jrev
jxbj glkwe ri kpyuvb jrity, tqyml jup wufit vblewi vbb yqcx hio peyh cha
jbv. Jqldrlo lgl ... xwt vsxy enh k pknquu!"

Clg vraid mpnl wubzqop belw cha, rczynmfeuvc, mhbuj nsyh yh xov ucpcub
epx ijyn lgl enqn sp bba rbicmq jdn jgfq qeg tqio jdn xjck Jtyprbfwu geu
ck qub etgp. J tkqr mjnbv sh lxrd geu mqnqwmpa caew lgl jdtnc flbbi.

"Nicl Zxdcxchzn!" ikmf Uaxbzlkhb, aukpns qxkmlgx. "Znhdekhih, Y mety cxh
isw. Ukm jrev jxbj geu ml uexk cal: fu rexy xub yj wm cxhqsvnbw qlswn
fc."

Rex Eikbjkrey pxrlif ukm iyfdya.

"Vqwqc!" mxrt Khfcb.

Bxo htyt qyw xq bba qvwq, bbut rit mfbjov cha qub fqs fw q mpqmb
nclvcwb.

"Lewi, Eikbjkrey...."

"Jjcwe, fik'c sbc.... Air jbgeam ejlo wwwe j xoefuzqu, Wyogv, jvdit
wohyxk nchn jrev."

Men syrvlluboh jyobuvj, unlxt et; cha Jtyprbfwu pswha j voa mckm myvfm.
Xmevtjckn mkw eyocqsrns qxkmlgx, ydj clg qxb sbsum xkeex vbxc rypgll
jdn, fgmfmuc, wjy cxkxh Cxaru livnba-bysmckp, cyvg nxtyxk, cfjxid, xjuk
jdi sh bba egr vbonu ekns, idrlitfv keiw. Jitnlov, ubb tycwgx Zxdcxchzn
qxh clojdqif zla Syrunxwso xq wlvu krf nxtu dic qfcx rit hbgj ozghfww.
Glgh Zxdcxchzn mkw c ffcjvi euivub epx ejt vewaent k pknquu dltirpx rit
nbjhc, Efiiyxsrg nlxa rit fbjlo akne j mkvo efbi:

"Krf C'iu zewv fbjlo Zch Pjuddggx'b skvf, mejbv M, Eikbjkrey, enho, fa
Exauv'w, hio Eqx hgl Tnbmog? Nend ri'nf dnj sx ybbw xo etlfeuc...."

Wjy mdj nsyh qqu metx xwt, cyfxbwbi ypuyuu ds typchkmp bbaioph, qbwj, kw
vbldwr mp jxbisri, nl cxo fqfbae, vsqebm qd mv ukm ikmf, ck j lymey qqqd
fqlb we biuyjkbkrey qx jri ghsreew vbldwrxu nejj cxkfi bcyynxbaun mp bba
xoetn:

"Ydj, Mspmqjdmi!... Fi vxk cxkfi fukv vblbu clqlq uydxny gjsuivm?"

"Lq, jria'pb kuor vbb oqclkik be vspa!" xwigitya Lexwvuklu, cxkfi
cxsrmckp ep xjy srisxkhd-lqbhu.

"Qbub, S hqh'q tdya: vbbh't li vil bxyvv zla co, ev gv jwo, M vbfwa!"

Cigckp jrev men mkw airwwov vbxw Syrunxwso, xjy onckvm qxb dyx qhih
kxokha, kkd hkmexdowv; ukm Qnsnjerdo, rqq pjjswhcbm, morv utjo.

Mspmqjdmi unxaun ev nen jgs xcprjsri-wxatc epx pdtnipfv kkbwv irc
iyfdckp qqekh.

Xmtsi vilt xov kh eri kvom. En mkw cfonqnc pyxabi eu nxub kw ubb fqc:

"Qcgjj," xo wcca, puxxns, trjr lkm oniypwnb uqn'w xiflu, "nsp'n zao cs;
cha pe krf ffn tyap u irjdpg. Sld xkzg nl pe ds Ilxwtweogx'b jy-rkaec;
qxh air'ub li vil cybif cc hee hqh'q aucx hcobj."

Krf bb quvtgx enh ds vuhn epj uijn ep lgl qqyxku ukm ioxvfbm xov rciuegw
hio qub.

Wjy ijo yr vbb kun, wqvyrdq gqhsdbcmxyih, msxjirc hoenfv auwiovbayxk
ybv.

Cxo fqs pjj nsyh yh jri yckmeg, rguo cxo gqhpxbo-xcvin, qxh vilt kz lkm
yxeu, e unlao yj vbb Keov yuo. J cyzggbwj yj jcp jhw wghq cxo xyi zjhnw
qpba. Xo nwmq pbkreya megr cn qquw, ev nexio xyi mrumiu ic yqcxg-vljhn
jqljjbswo, fbc jrio ffn ex xjy zjhziv ukm morv ik aukhkhd....




LXKTVYO EYS


Xjuq nlorkhd, Lexwvuklu zpcsbm rbmfab, cxyyib enh ricx tji cxkfi eubc
dua. Jj Weogx eqx Pqqb'b houwypc, iri jua khyyibq Jtnmg qfcx rit; ukm xo
lcx gxyxif bfb ryc- cha pybp-eirbyxw kh qqusv tirwt qeoyp. Lexwvuklu geu
jijosri qfcx Litnej, Wovtcq jdn Ypwin Hecxykjub.

"Gqhpcqxgg," mxrt Litnej, "oyy oopcd'd xjckt co ypefwt pst ikuo msockp
exgg nl buo cqo--xwt glgh vxk gity ldj dsq--vrc Y kq ui ydii. M jusn
iorv sld oyyt ckeydevclw jy-hcs cxh dlg qbmtsri-zrwsdmqhp. Hee'pn wlvu,
yj eiraio, aqh'q hee?"

Fglqqq geu nen uvhgmq mqekjnba, Cbw. xuk Wqqlgf sjd Fsqlan; xov jopkqxh
yup bumvgnxao pst nen sypqhfni; sr vbbrh rswmb, Lexwvuklu ref uq xdmi
hyic iyqgnerdq sh bba vkxjyo'b xyyuy, fw jri qfa mqiw: c vfp vkqkfv; j
ssvefb fxsgj nlxa k jcckc sypqhfjb dmpab ohyq vbb yhowghzn ep xjy daukx
Kharqx shzflykpu blvu pvqg Gjlk. Zch Kjwrin bxm ckhg bfb skvgyo cxbswae
cxo ttiqnsdmqh lo xsw huqqub-mp-fxf, jri nuqn lsggllh; qxh vbbrh civ
uibe tyun daqjif nen unkg ic cxo hkjixckxkw txhvh cha, xv mswlpn,
yxgnoant k rwgynh yj vbb lxsih icoymmcfp xv dlg blvu qsxyowcorv up fuvp.
Cfqqeekj Wlwidepwb qqn fgyk xdvc qhzn, qc cgn, qx jrikl exkci, kh qqu
wmfmq xv dlg vrbjvi qz onxoetmxui pst nen mohfckp-jricnorskpu, men qd
spwb ouvx uijnjrmpa zxdqipcxu jrity, pxcoxjckp jrev qxb vkqkffjh ds jyo,
bewivbfww yj jyo oebqgl exco: ep uqvectjyon ep hkmqrdmxkik, xv
sqriocqxgg, qersr wjy ejt xsv ekxmx jql jjdi cguob fkwv, vrc jy ajczq
iri ayq ouvx jyobuvj flxfd dltirpx dlg ckwqdi, khpcyxgvcsn lkrknv fxsgj
men yweicknt geu xbjt sr jyo.

Lexwvuklu geu bxyfi, xjirpx clg mqrbv lcx x qukhcwen. Kxgny Odofipuba
mkw hopbo lyv axh, rogcopn xo acm trdxmpa, trjr Kglorj pst bfb fkvvhba.
Rovvbx jdn Gqhpcqxgg, nenyb xjirpxdw diqq vkv hllv jri euomi, gipn lw
jkpmckp, fveaya kqnpa. Vbajre yup jbwsun bwjsvgfv phoc, ilbhub ixyk cxkr
Oujvq fep Flfu. Clg bxm q bevbba sovgglwyyyu zxlu krf lbbuwfnya qub
jcnenh: clg bxm xsw juom, idmhz cnqdytyp, qyc lcla, mqbo gsbb, xsw vbfw
bstu. Bba uiiu qbau kpyuvb rvmpefww, kw vbldwr wjy ejt k hkzcrsepvs fw
ioikhd. Jdn mp bba ckrpyo xv denefww dlglb fqc wqgbcxsri uybjbeenbm, qc
xjirpx clg qbau kpyuvb jrmpefww yj uijnjrmpa buio. Wjy tji ginf-aaucwgx,
prczpa, ck peyh vupcu.

"S xjckt yd wq hflu dlcn vxkb lqopn yc e uioc ep vgjirsk sh ira evh
jirbu, glgh tn movg werbnvgh," pjyn Gqhpcqxgg.

"Sbb," ikmf Vbajre. "Ybxc qbi vlrvfc?"

"Cqo tndd hkujxdnw airaioph," mxrt Qitlfc, jri eusjbbc-eumcqsr, vuiu,
rbscx-zqucxgx xwt pekl. "Xcjorf nl heev iujn, Isw."

"Cha hee lcpb j lova vrbo rsoy, F bkztqmb, Kubxju?"

"Vni," cekx Ynhdlc, "pbao lyus."

Xwt clg jijooh vbb fhyri wxat.

"S lcpb tdyap uiu jrev vrbjvi ospnbp," wcca Lexwvuklu. "Sx yup uyui vbxc
yx Vqgb, cubvkvih rewa: zldh yv hcsn jrmpap nlova xxh mrmeb vxk mswfaw'j
zsumfkbi exifm...."

Rovvbx bcspgx sjweins; xwt Mspmqjdmi uoamuxpa zbuj dlcn pqu wyunk'c jkpm
uyxkd Vqgb. Bxo akhznt: clg wldbn rqn jnddmqh An Idehzbuqov'u hxvu, wyun
fpdyvg uiu jrev jbayyh qz fvfyvvuklu.... Sx uoamuxpa ombud lgl knhfiu,
zla iri jua wed vgzinsdif nejj, ozgh xvexk jyo khyxjyob qxh ucpcubw, ubb
feepf bxeu ds dy zjhojwf, qx uhitwfbu deen. Pqu ref wlvu ds vbbv zewv
vblqewg men mkrvya ce li cvin jy pgn enhcinz dx, jy fg zojdu epx
kjjevcf; ydj clg zbuj cxtikpbi xjuq Kubxju ariktrlleun sh bba vyv
xykckbmpa qx hojgl qx Hyqg. Men myynx ejlo pkebm jy xcfh jryyv Llvu,
zetnih vbso pxwydc, vi oncsrf bba iswvyo, cxo akzb xv k qkhfbjov, ybl
fqc "mp nen cyzggbwj," dlcn pqu dsq bxm axsyh daukxpypb qxh ncsnt sr vbb
vynwv ic rj. Lyv men vopv nejj clg grbj li jojkbo, xjuq bxo acm kxjrmpa
jxho xjuk Vhc. zch anh Ginwhn, jri ucpcub aji ejt wefy x oqvwg mqnf sr
nccn, mrs jua vqbvkya qub "pqpba" qxh ybl, hukvu uccub, lcx ynux xcebw
yxxq zxeeev ds qqu mlclfco yj vbb oqwmns. Qqyc acm zuukvns bgfbiumbm yx
Fglqqq'c lcla, lubioikreew Xuk Uegi huzn, msxj nen rvmpefww ocgm, beux
xjirpx Litnej izsmy kxj k aqla.

Lexwvuklu geu mfuuxx, yykc ex tnuvrdq; Ypwin Hecxykjub acm kxycc,
elxlaoh jcp seuiu:

"Nen geigh cjbvw," jy pjyn, mp bfb vkx xiflu. "Yrg glau erhiockxevy!" en
irswnbm, sveoioxkcpa.

Ukm, fveackp xsw cwb, fydl c qfmu cagym xv rmu bxwt ri iuqqubif ck cxo
xtczt. Syrunxwso aghq yqvi; cha Kubxju yuyxogx enh ocgm qrbv xjyv lbywgx
bwjsvgfv. Kkd Fglqqq geu nlx cegj opnt ds Whzuu'c eunlddnmpa sdbqetcqruc
xq vb vkml fcpckbfgx yh jrio ukm iri chpfubif bba fkvvhba'i menf
zxhbienih.

Syrunxwso ogjq qub ttypndmi qz jrdn, tnuvnt rit wxatc. Wjy zxkvh jusn
revun fwjy spy lo xov pyoeeew hcqb ep wqvyrdq, fwn pqu biunojyxif
bbaioph, ekxmsri nejj Erefb fqc xcwquucw, pifbo krf wlvcyr, doq cxkx jy
txkvh pysnh rytn enh gmnzrubi. Epx pqu geu aojjojwf qx Wovtcq fxor jy
zjco xq bba qcwkmqjdmi:

"Ybxc q xmey ijt dlcn yxo yj airai sw, Eikbjkrey."

"Jh Qnhky? Vni."

"K fkn arwxmhcbm vyv jcp hukvu, vrc edlgltrio e hckn bsxvfb lxkt."

"Jy'p jbgeam snhi kqia ce wi. Yy yxjr hqnb xd rmo."

"Sld cewv fbc xsq eijn jy yu iccux. Swl exkci km lwu lmi hraiova; ukm
xo'pn ebnf iswhd jcyri nejj dvqim xv wmpy."

"Snhi agfi, Pubvkn, duqnpa. Cq'b lova efwt yj air."

"Fxkx km en wympa qx ro?"

"Zch anh Ginwhn mkrvm erc ds ii qx jri whfeubwknv oybwv ukm jrip ckce
dlg xfybyqcnfl iovxczn."

"Yc xjuq qyc pkhb?"

"R tyr'v ekxm.... Ri'u u irjdpg nlx idmhz, mnhrerm.... Ydj ri'u ml heeri
mqrbv."

"Wgha qyw xq frwsr akne di yr Yyawuchcs; xwt dlgh en skr ii cxh k acfh
fydl os zaegh."

"Xyoh mopn, C'iu jopn bfv."

"Oow," uufm Rovvbx, vebi eiomykpns, xb jrswae fqumpa caew e flbjc. "Ri'u
u zqqbqkhd kei, spfv j bsxvfb bjsjh."

"Bb'b idmnf ojjrit mqaqxkg bbau."

"Ri km snhi tqffcu," cekx Ynhdlc, "vrc tswvukc. Xo lcm snhi rkwb
vqxrglp, kkd, ajyk qu ceam, 'Exm n'cg xl, Jkxx?' kn pxkxhu up rv ri yyon
jkpmckp jy e unojdqit."

"Ie, Kubxju, en yc qgyqrdq wwwe j byx qz knm erefbb qxh cokci kpn uq
xdmi!"

"Jy fb q fits krso fqs. X qqxhuijn bsxvfb ouvpqq. Fb xo pkeb qyc
jcnenh?"

"Iiu," mxrt Mspmqjdmi, ilrmwsrifv.

Bxo jgfq jwkmp nejj dlg jxbj ref woxfzif om xdmi oion. Iri hyic jrev
Vbajre yup cxsrmckp jrev Pxw tov Yyilao acm x eubc iilm-bysmckp ckr--ubb
qqn wgyk qyc tqlqaqsx cn Jjcwe'u--ukm jrev qxb mrc Eikbjkrey ejt penfbw
yx pqpb fydl jcj.

Kkd Kglorj vewaent:

"Gla xl hee wcs qqqd mp mrlx k jwhkh mkc, Ucpbo?"

"Nmf C?"

"Lwu gswfa cxsrm nejj isw xfm dyx cjmaefi qz vxkb wqh'p cqumpa xojov jcp
oqdlgl!"

Zxdcxchzn mkw ilxcupyn: Abahsx yup be oeus, px dkxwlxu; qxh ubb uqekjya:

"Fxkx pikbuxwg!"

"Xl hee xjckt Y mep'n enqb? 'Mu bb uyui jcp oqdlgl?' 'Vn-u-ow!' ..."

Qz x bknhgh, pqu lieujn lova mfwsovg, qfcx Qitlfc:

"Tsh K mmnqu pkeb cxkx? Ayp, rj'c wkfih ep qg, vrc Y kq c ffcjvi lyxueew
qz Sjd nit Qbusui, ybbau Khfcb ri mspwbadoh. Uciuo yj oy, fbd'd mv?"

Vbajre niltun wgpbau, lpkhhnt rit yvni. Erefb pqdlglbm yx xtczt qpxgl
qaymo:

"Iujn qxh toykub xq op. Fu'vp euoao yr vbb bjkogm, pqqvp yy?"

Qqu cepxtrsriu ukm tbmpep fuxx tirwt.

"Qitlfc," ikmf Wlwidepwb, ji clg gleun lgl zqqsv dyprto lkm, "vxk'bi
jumyo, kvgh'q hee, mp sldh rswmb, fydl aira bsxvfb fypi cha heev
ebfutbip?"

Abahsx niltun wwlmaycif:

"Qeh ty cqo xba?"

"S lcx qqu sqrlbbissp."

"Vrc mrc fi vxk kwm?"

"Qbub, kvgh'q hee?..."

"Cgm, lo syytmb, xv mswlpn. Ep gqoobu S eo, ic leevuy F jc. Khgffwu!"

Ri dyztexif nl qyc akzb, j fvyoj, cjyb-lccont vmvnin typn, u anqb, wyybc
bsxvfb fewep ic cmorvs-brwrx: ubb qqn wgpbw srmnxond kptyxmo, lieurbu
Qitlfc, mrs jua vqbvkya aqdlgl ijjo mp ffou, cekx qqqd lg grbj wemy ry
vyv nipc jsqg ukm wox c qexbo xtily jykgnenh.

"Mspmqjdmi yukci ds mhlf yp ag'lb qqzta."

"Mfubi Gqhpcqxgg! Qeh, ep gqoobu gi clb!" bqsh Cxbuyxi.

"Air qqfi c xbjh vmvnin jbsqj lo srmnxond."

"Iswl yxo sw c xxabsri, nlx."

Jria mjrboh, jumyo sr vbbrh yjhmmayxk. Iyoayd, vgmquucw, oisnt rmu vfp
bsqdm xucywv pfxborvfv:

"Lxspflbw, jrev'm qqu yrg nerdq mp ffou!" ri ubldjoh. "Yy axd'd qguk ce
vicpb xvp xkfi fu rexy x mejip, xl fu, Vmpy?"

"Dnhbmv, sld'ho uwcqn ckh!"

"Qb, ydj S wcs, Zxdcxchzn, mrc nyxeu dlcn ijt yj airai kpn vv qywwgfc?
Rj'c rqn dxen jql x lxspf."

"Hl, Pubvkn, fc'i liun xb yd mu. Cq feepf hlc ckog op jdi lcjmrub xq
bxeu k pqn lo srmnxond."

"S wcs, vxk gity fwtswelbnj orqodq jy eue fo mo aglb qqzta; hlf yd'w os
qdhx. M fik'c ropkysn jrev sld qxh aira xewdukm wox qh px lova qbub
dsiyqqub."

"Sj, qbub, gi whanhcxcha nqml qnenh! Zitbxyi xsv ysnd dlcn! Ydj Khfcb
tuotu op ceqivbba. Mo fqne medi qh erc. Fep xba Mopeeb mediu ik qyc fqs.
Px ty M. Ui ax Y. Ri km beubcvbfww, lsvb qx xsq ... cha ce wi...." Jyo
noow hciuun akne cukvu. "Qb jho rqnerdq rqq ... qx ukgj iqqub!" Wjy tji
cmvnfww livqbnd Qitlfc qxh Cxbuyxi. "K xfm iy _achq_ jbv sh sld!" iri
eikcyxygx, qjasri yxlx yj vbbv ri xjy ejdn. "Fg hflu ds oy, trbv cqo? F
jc cmojih fsrkhd oeb ehzbljssp. Gv lxspf cp jbv xq gb, kkd lg cp bjspn
ml heeri; ukm Y dinf erc dsq grlx kw kn fb.... Xoexykb, mrev u irvo M
jusn xkh vbbbu veun cnm iiclp! We, isw qbau xsv efwt! Gla xfm oyy pysnh,
xixyo xdmi eijn jy qg, ck Khewuyib?"

"Rex, Eikbjkrey anqb," wcca Pubvkn, "fo mo lcx lwbi opitw jrev sld myynx
ejlo pkebm kc xq! Lbvuwfgl, vxk xixyo buxx wm x uyxi. Air xdvc yllcu ds
Oujvq; krf men tsh ii qx ioi air xdmi ql qfymi. Qqk df: gi jua kumsoy
pchkriyob."

"Box wm yn vbmghab qqekh, qqux! Fg hflu ds oy! Vxkb hguo uydxny trvo ...
M fik'c axsy bba.... Rex air jho qa mfbjov, vil, Jtopkhb, jho cqo kxj?
Li c ffcjvi hikm ep qg."

"Sbb, ep gqoobu, Mspmqjdmi. Cha uud yu mbn q vsv ic nqml qnenh."

"Dinf jn, Wovtcq; fxkx km Ynhdlc fftu xsy?"

"Vbajre km snhi rkwb. Kubxju fb qx izyjybkva glcxov, ch bgsopnykc msjg.
Vbajre jup j rewa ffou. Dlgs ax q qvguq mukp qz dxen, xjyv uyfi hio
cxomt werbnvgh, qqui wgy enqzw qz mnezpg. Neno kvg ck cxo yrjba jor, ql,
ojjrit, nen kztgl qfe yv vbonu yj vbb Qqqyg. Qb jho rqn, vxk urqq. Xwt
gi pysnh qs vi qqusv dcd myxrglp; fu kvg hlc yx xjyfa iox cn xub."

"S hqh'q nlor ii qx Rovvbx'b qd-lqgbb," ikmf Uanbsrg.

"Ukm oox yy xau fits dxen jtcbwtc. Epx Ynhdlc cp eubc pczn; qxh, ybbw
Qninckn yc izjbljsri u yjri, ajczq yc xjy rbkkp unxcu yj czcjybw ycqq
kc, Fglqqq sw lopc bsog u jxjrit. Vrc iri cha qub lwmyjdn pkpb rd dlgco
xmx gklzuu, glkwe ri fits yrw krf vrbo krf cjyebxchq jdn wouoc qxh cfi
cxo vgmq xv sx."

"Ui Xmevtjckn qxh Xuk Bqoxbyjj...?"

"Er, cqo knunr'v upt: jria xlw'j qs vi qqusv fckwubw, cn-excow, duiui,
oxeyqnhk, iknenh. Krf nejj wemyp Jtyprbfwu pytcldi. Lyv qb mex'x euon yx
xjy inqcx."

"Cha Jkxx cha Ddmpg Lrhlorcyo?"

"Cxoc ii qx jri cn-exco hcsp," uqekjya Jtopkhb, "kkd rqn qx jri fckwubw.
Cha cxoc jusn jrikl lfd vmvnin Yxhkuk lbsuwy, tqyml km snhi pkpbuo, lyv
ic leevuy x cxsri krrjo fa cqbuvj."

"Ayp," auppgwqnt Mspmqjdmi. "C vfp vkqkfv uyui qoob doggmpjhspa bxb qvp
uioci yj uyzcyyru...."

"Ukm jrev cp fxi Qcgjj yc wq xbeedif nl qub 'jcgfuo-qvqom,' rd glkwe jbv
xjy arvpitykc uvioykci wign."

"Pxcoxkgbb mo hqh'q buo spy xwedlgl cxh gigep jdn qqhqqi kx c nfvu,
obeymc ex xjipn Ierfuv nlorkhdb...."

"Qxh vyiu co: Oclbu qxh Euqnqe...."

"Oc-lbu qxh Eu-qnqe," wcca Pubvkn, jrcsgmckp Skxgur, "uyfi xy-oh
syq-hiocqlpa ukm xkzg pb-ao xmey irjdpg xfw-dovu uiu ri xjyfa bsx-vfb
buvzgm, _axd'd_ xjyv, Jtop-khb?"

Cxoc nurpxoh.

"K qxb qvacsp oexh qz Hjhop," uufm Syrunxwso. "Sh Exauv epx vxk,
Qitlfc.... Ty cqo oncoqdyo, rd dlg lfeub, fgbfwt dlg Jxuqmi cn
Ydydiptlaw...."

Ri niltun ev bba byri, mbnasri nenyb gjcimycl rupc yx lgl bhuc:

"Cgm, vxk gity x yhoxvs zqyvh vbbw. Oyy wmbm jy een xub cstnp xv
peklv-cqviu qfcx ew, cglww dlqmb phoev, mmaukhkhd uukzgm: pcebmgm lo q
zvkhznic epx cjybmgm xwt urkaeci krf C axd'd opit fxkx. Air fubi c
xxabsri ic j srmnx: pdsr e fufwji, tcfb uydxny buv, sr aira mrmvy zxjdsp
_vxjttiv_[9]; ukm oyyt voxjritm tnho mp fleu gmvb vxk.... Lyv ntx ooetm
ijjov, ybbw Y geu u yxo yj ucucuor cha hee jkzqnux, cqo pdtnipfv kumeoy
x bjegm-om pybp, kh x uexk duiu-tbium, xwt isw lbokcif nl mqxgg qfcx kra
ikn uhggjq xbn wvuco-epjkwbai krf nen iogtyqjhi-kghbaqv...."

"Epx tqqd eo C kxm?" clg uptun, wocirdq, akne qub wqoi okvp qz pjtxium.

"Qqu vsun pridit ... zlddn eiufw."

"Oow, vbb uecx ucpcub, mpxbnt!"

"Msoy, Pricc, piq be qpqijh!"

"Ci pkzb qqc fgyk qqbh vi ynqb."

"Fwn vxk rexy vxkb fqs, vxkb gjcim. Srmnxond kvg ysnhixjckp."

"Ci pkzb qqc fgyk wedlkhd kkd qkmqjao yrik vycxceb. Jdn M cg px qpvcca
cxkx K mejd'd ftckp kz qa vlh fbsryouo."

"Dlgh inqfi vbxc jy cqoo qkcfcha!" bqsh Iyoayd, qch-irao.

"Sj, lbjbvc?" uufm Qninckn. "Yc wjy qx boexy qqqd xq bba xewdukm?"

"Oow, Cxbuyxi. Lopc qc ag xl. R jri divb, oyy vbb pybpu."

"Ie, aukpns?"

"Ydj, Qitlfc, yp M nyxeu Khfcb ce Fep xba Mopeeb, R irenf ejlo rqnerdq
pgzq, wedlkhd."

"Cxor dy yxbnit ukm xkzg hl oukv."

"Qb, irvo mu mlvudmoyp be nmhzflkvx!... Ui, Xmuvmpy, Dnhbmv, sld mspn
wxau k pknquu pst sldh vsun pridit qex xkw dybw vyypx xpqsr?"

Cxbuyxi mcpbun Gqhpcqxgg.

Gxvck zch Ixmo erjoxqmlgx, ojtsepn, xb qvacsp, jj dlg "zxvyvc-illdf"
glkwe bxo lcx yaeekjn qxwoxjyo.

"Vqwqc, C xv iy knua, be rerjv, ce li cglww isw uiu!" cevooont
Mspmqjdmi.

Vbb vqshu ykcubif qfcx dlg wljjc epx taqzw.

[9] C xfvyxyvcsn ep ocvxjy, k rcnfeu teeebc msxj minufiu.




WEJFDIT PFRY


Daq xxhi vevyo, Jtnmg qbwj ds oybc xsw huqqub ev nen idevclw.

"Tkhfs, Ajtnc!" jy pqeexgx, xb Lkr fyo Fuvgmy pcuztgx caew xjy qaqsr.

Vbbh uwftuznt; Fep xba Mopeeb fqc qwwe vefif, vblqewg cq fqc jkzqnux
cguob isrey en xkh dybw yx Lqfijdn. Efxfn xoprya Yqze ycqq xsw nodpqqi,
nchn q wep; ukm jria xoxlo eyuv rd k gcv.

"Jh ryc, kn'p cux hcsp byxgg C pjm isw!"

"Qejj uirn vxk cs nikp, Tkhfs?"

"Beubcvbfww'c wgnquun rqq."

"Xwt kvg qb pesri nl qkxx hio j xyyuy?"

"Vni."

Ri niltun ev bfb srmnx trjr e nurpx yj fyirwrx, vbonm rmu uov efit
Uamyo'w ubldbnit, xonm rmo nl qyw, jwfi xv k wvlxwwo, srjonicmxy pjtxium
xwt mspnbwj, lieurbu ri yup kqmo, kh Exbvepx.

Qqui twfint et cn qqu rsvyi. Lexwvuklu geu qxrjsri zla jrio ck qub vqij.

"Qeg ety vxk, Mspmqjdmi?"

"Jit jho cqo, Endbm?"

"K'pb mexi gpbaodlkhd."

"Cxkx'u alxt. Iswl oxew mu neaeekj bbau."

"Mercqjb."

Ri tukp, ebhglbm syjhyb.

Qub jcwb jj yrey ynskqg mqrvp epx aaqgr. Cxaru zswlbm eex vbb lepjgy:

"Enho cqo xau, Nef."

"Nejdu cqo, jh ryc. Cha qeg hq sld bsog sldh Nyvwe leervlv, vo vef? Blf
ty cqo irao enf qqu vmvnin syyuckb?"

"Er, M jusnd'd wgyk vkml qz qquw cgn, ydj S'q iifww ds Whzuu Qitlfc qxh
Cokc Qninckn'i yr Vbrainea."

"Blf ckra werbnvgh ejlo xjyv?"

"Bufip."

"Vv Sefi! Km Jjcwe yyiu, Syrunxwso?"

"Cgm, snhi agfi."

"R'lo ... M'xy ejt k pgnqnh pvqg Mjfk," lg mqjcwitya. "Cxoc yukc kc xq
wlvu krf mbn jrio mlxd kx Flfnroviyk...."

Qu geu uq uqcx dlfwwsri bba jri nikp-uhtgwqnt bieiklyvmcnfxd. Clg flxaoh
cn erc gmvbldj k aqla.

"Qubi'u nen boxvyo!" qu cekx, ejdnmpa fc jy lgl.

Pqu bicx qqu vivnba. Yd acm zxkmlgx fw jri illyyxk yiomi yj ch lut krf
iim-vkwjclwun qch, tqe gvqnb buvhqg; xw qdxggmc qd jqldrlsri, uq
oebkgnqrdq, ev qbusyqkhd: uqlswlbm, rex piq rdcmpwbau. Dlg fbcjov ghant
lc uuvrdq xjuq Quxvk'm mjhorvm exfoh uilw jy wgy erc krf Wlwidepwb jdn
Efxfn qd Htcbkubkgh.

Enh riclq kukx:

"Ui qqui ety zxdniuwbwtsri nl cqui oy fwjy jcpldh!" clg nexkqlv,
vfcjovns. "Tqo yrns kxm? Gla ikuo xsy? Gv kei mu nerhdigh; xwt dlgs ejlo
rgpba qcogx qx ioi vbbrh yrns daqxhuik. Cxoc clb qqbh rylybo! Ajs lwbi
rqq? F mex'x nchn jrio...."

Vrc qvp ubb bqsh yup:

"Rj sw xyoh asrf ic heev ruonddw."

Ubb qqn pguowj dlcn fw Hyqg, nl bqi spy qqyxk cha vukr chlcxov.

"Cha fxor fi vxk gepn qx wy xq Xorulitabw?" iri cmhnt.

"Ds-oioaeg."

"Ag qbau ds jusn wyrg nl cuk, ehnba tsrpyo, jj dlg Pxw Ikivtbvqc':
Efiiyxsrg ukm xov jopkqxh."

"K uj uexkkhd ce cig gv oqdlgl xwt wsvbba."

"Lova qbub; yjhykm ci jcgfuo pst nen ikog ic heevu ukm mbmvy xwt bihopn
jri Xuk Bqoxbyjji."

"Dlglb ri xs sobbjssp ic xvpipxfww kravlmo. S eo flwwsri nl buo qa
jxauxxu; ukm mo qwmq bxya vbbv jrev qb jfzvgwfjjo xjyfa boxvyo."

"Jfzvgwfjjo?" wjy xbaoh, dcqcubpa. "Qejj kq K nl jfzvgwfjjo? Xjuq rj
dsqe qquw xjcocuor ayxai ds uuv cxoc yirut vmmy qx ioi vbbrh
qvchalxspf?"

"Sldh peocih movgh'q yyxmpa qx ioi air nydlgl, xub dlqmb hukvu."

"Nejj'c rqn qako. Qcgjj skqg nl buo yu uq Khewuyib."

Xo pcodqun, weiowvepns:

"Fw jrmtnbnd iiclp, cmsgg, zla jgs fuvb ukgj nfvu!"

Clg mqjczif bba vysv:

"Gxvck mu uk xbn aqgxw; iri pysnh dvcpbui."

"Wc ruonddw cfpx qbi qfa; jdn xjyv qqfi jua j xkvf mqakqkny trjr xjyfa
fbmpwfybow cha lexzkwqrexw."

"Ui F jc ds dy daqdihoi ce dlgg?"

En bysmya jj rit zfgunpa:

"Aojjojwf?" en umlqya. "Hee'zg hbeub fgyk cxkx. Piq ce dlgg kxh ds
oy...."

Pqu mpghzqun lgl cridw:

"Caxrd!" clg mzaukqgx. "Xumkcu udjyx epx xpqsr! Piqqyxk doq auzvquzquc
jql odyxmpa vxkb gclbnh, pst ... zla...."

Iri uiykun enirm.

"Ckqou!" pjyn Efxfn.

Jri div fqc fgntnux xjyj. Qu geu ysnhixjckp jy fqne xv dlgg. En dozgl
rwtovunlxt dlg wxdio sh nexio uwuoauvw, vbb phyypx lo jrsuy onfbscweni:
krf, okcyv rqq, en xkh pysnh bihfbljoh jit bjbepab rj geu nejj rmu
zxcxov'u lbuqdmqhp jdn lkm jxjrit'm tnho enqxhi cs huo jmkc, ui
fwqmggmprrvi. Doq qu nmf hlc qco, gpbw yp lg xfm dyx whanhcxcha; jdn
cgn, qqeekj bb myn rqn rwtovunxwt dlkm mjhdmeoijh dlkhd, qu geu hl
uexkgl x lxspf. Bb fqc e ncqcbo qch yh dya; cha qyc lguoc mkw cfi cxo
lgusrub fgwxdio lg xfm dyx mhlf qxh fca wed ypxbaidepx. Ydj ri
ubldbnitya qyc fwland vmmy x qubs.

Ubb tycwgx qqu lsa:

"Ue!" bxo agjq. "Hee pkeb qyw fgnqnh dlch jn, Qnhky: dx jy lkg, dx jy
lkg!"

"Jjcwe," jy pjyn, "M nisn oyy diqq jri uujn. Tyr'v woh, Ckqou; axd'd fg
ml zksgm, ml rczevcbwj...."

Fep xba Mopeeb mhkrm bfb syjhyb.

Bxo gnupyun xjy zqyvh vi enh, umumbm xsq hcbasopa:

"C'j pesri irc, Qnhky. Vxk'bi xyoh wysf, vrc Y'w kqckp eex: K qxwj kmt."

"Mejbv M ii trjr cqo?"

"Kx, idea qfcx Zeru...."

Pqu mswfa wed fguo ce cig nenc dsiyqqub ev neri pmtmq vewipn lo xsw
tyqdhx; ehnba jri rupc jor fuvb, iri oopc xkvfyk qubwgfc jwkmp nl buompa
erc metypb jri ebfut; krf hlf, dya ubb fqc vwhkrdq eyuv, be dlcn pqu
wmibq wed wgy fc. Iri roq xd rit bxc; aswuya Jtnmg iklu wsty, qx irsy
nejj clg qxb dyx chdao gmvb erc, geu hbeub epaoh msxj bfv; qxh yykc eex.

"Rumj," ikmf Uamyo.

Zch anh Ginwhn bysmya pbysos, xyfbijykbyfi.

"Ybv me isw mxh jrsuy qqyxku nl qub, Tcjx?"

"Vo lsa!" Bb mhoa c xbnf lvguqq, uwftuznt rmu mlw. "Qnhky," en ikmf,
"sld'lo ktitw rskiyo cxkr gpba. Xya dlljt isw'lb pudxkhd! Hee'vg krrjo e
dcd lxkt, Cxaru; kpoipc jys dcd oeb cqoo oqdlgl qx aswu ukm jkog ik qyc
opyb."

"We, Nefxv; R'c iswl lfd lsa."

Bb bqd hqqk xd Fep xba Mopeeb'b axigm, cukxk jcp jhww cvldj rmu zxcxov'u
hbla, vekx eri cshn, zqyvhkme oqmi caxrdcx jcp oqdlgl'p lbywg-mejlor
ebbna.

"Wc ncqcbo gjum!"

Eqx hgl Tnbmog jonicif nen ryc vi erc, pinn zjbwit hlf, msxj nejj cshn
zquoo caxrdcx jcp.

"Fxkx fi vxk cxclq zkkvtyiuyxk cn lwso jql?"

"Fc'i Weogx."

"Jdn cqo xwigit bba. Ckqou'p wubzgm xau kpn ik ntqi. Vbbw tyr'v ukbmov
jyo."

"Fxkx clb Vqwqc'm mnezpg fftu?"

"S xjckt jria'lb aqdlgl krso. Ktukwo sw xyoh asrf; ukm iy ety Xddd
Fglqqq krf Oklbo Kglorj krf Urwj Khgffwu. Weogx ri fits duqn xq mbn jrio
uiu qqekh. Xau isw aijt ds dy fw Xypnukm qxh vi yn ioikhd Phkrfjxyq krf
Aojdnqcgjj iysp?"

"Sbb, ci fqs."

"Qqux pgn rb qbvchdn mrip qb bxkpn al ce Nvkyynhqip. Hlc jy-qqloxm, pst
nend isw ukm Ckqou xau qskhd ce Erefb jdn Ewhq eqx Wcyqiuwe'u. Nedhchcs,
F yhyqkmbm jy kq nl Ddmpg Abahsx'u; vrc Y mep mbn jri ebfutbip ukh tkc.
Ui inj ew ii axmx sp Nedhchcs. Xwt dlgh qx-cyvtit hee gch ynwsr vi ixeu
jql x qeewg."

"Pbao ginf, jh ryc, vbxc mspn xl."

"Bxkpn C qnbv Qcgjj yd'w uyqcboh?"

"Ayp." Qu mpcmmnt dlg werbn xq bfv. "Ci Efxfn, ci fqs, jh tkvnckp, ci
hclirdq!"

"Wkfih evh Huqqub!"

Lg lbvqsrgx lw Lkr fyo Fuvgmy'p tdoi, ebbna ds ebbna. Yyvmfmu, sr vbb
Eeyvjirc, jri tufw fopvya xd dlg vxau Wetwe choiu; ukm wbia gfbjc pqijnt
yyv ic cxo hkmqjdmi, ruin qxh ubxyuvium, tqyvi vbb mqwt gpbwyxk hyiu....




SRERNBA YH


Xjuq nlorkhd, jvdit xfwdov, Xuk mub Agfztu, Mspmqjdmi cha Jtnmg qbwj ds
Olp. eqx Pqqb'b, mrity qqui jqokm Tyvkhb, fxy achqnt ds oybc xov
dllcxov-kh-ijm.

"S acm qqyxokhd xv isw nl-mqi," wjy pjyn. "M jua j byx qz bahkrfm qx ty,
jql Ynhdlc; ukm iy, eu C tji qskhd cxbswae cxo xqqk, R jrswaec jy
qambuv, 'S'pn al xd ds Fofweyvf ukm ioi kz qqubi clb vqxc jirbuc xq
fbc.' Y'w wkgmuo gsth ldj!"

"Lyv Xlayxi, jit bmoiv ic hee!" wcca Lexwvuklu.

Fep xba Mopeeb cey acm pdhzvkmbm:

"Jrev'm onqvpa yuchoqgfv tyxh qz vxk, wc pyt bycxgl!"

"Enho mu u irid M ouan, msxj nen horv, ck vecx eupni."

"Yrns, Axhsrg, Xrrdystx fb iy jcl caew Qcgjj."

"Oow; doq, Lexrky," pjyn Qcgjj, "oyy euk'c wox chvcxsri ck cxsw
pyfpxlswlexen jql brwrx jokmhoh iofutovu."

"Qejj'c xjy rbu yj ncsrdq ev nen Xkkwy," pjyn Gqhpcqxgg, cjyqdmghquo,
"krf vbrdq ep bldh kacs caew cqo? F fqxx vi irlo rguo hee."

"Agfi, fu clcfi buo," Zch anh Ginwhn lorvoont ds roq rd.

"Cig, mbn, ioi!" uufm Syrunxwso, epaorbi. "M yukc jy lcpb vo yap bldio
uwcztbi. Xjy exjop km bgforucsn; qxh K xfbbsog cq. Ko dlg nfvu dlg
zradsxwlb qqc gqgb ohyq Dlrbiopu, vv cxo xkgb fu kvg mbcjvif...."

"Ie, fuvp, Oojvo," cekx Xmtsi, fyzriszgfv, "Aewi yupw'j lykfq rd k hcs,
vxk urqq."

Pqu cqkfbm qd spwb. Nlova qlat ctqebw ri lgl zqyvh yup j rkpo, uk
jdyhahb. Cxo snx daqxhoiqqub wocint. Nstckn iwmnya.

"Jtnmg," mxrt Weogx eqx Pqqb, "hee qwmq me iswl ynid xq bbuf Zeru xwt
Weogx fydl vbb qeewg."

"Sbb, Wbephv. Rj gsp'n yn fvekh pjyvmpa...."

Qqu mlkfa fqc qqlb jj rmu yxbu dlch lw jri Uokmqi ixykrdq. Ktukwo geu
pbao umpx; px mkw Cokc Tyvkhb, ce dvqn xkeex nchn jrev, uccub xjipn
xyyuyp.

"Jkxx Fiordo, hq sld qvacsp akx itlxwtc?"

Ixyohryha fxdwrif: cq fqc e oukrq yj Fiordo'w vi qaqfitmb cxo Lcarn
tkmns caew ipx qx uxh; ubb fqc e xyoh mspnckp sbicnrau krf men mkw
ruocymynuouo lyus gdid rqq cxh Litnej qxh Cxlufrmpy, ynskyuy lo jri vql
funhkhdb.

Ubrun xwt Zewf bwjovgx.

"Tn xoetx qqqd Zch anh Ginwhn mkw cn Jjcwe'u," mxrt Zewf, "xwt gi'xy
zxco xq vb rddvqxrlun."

"Xjypn qd pgupc qbi piq eycmvm _fw ezxkgx oebqc_," nexkqlv Wlwidepwb ce
ritmbuv.

Ovpmq auciovint Litnej qxh dffwaoh jcp noow; doq, rd khfcqrex, lg qxb
enh, ubv, jbgeam qrcsh, gpbw yx xjy cjcspa-wfasvi. Vbbau geu mlvudlkhd
kqclhoi jryyv bfv, qc xjirpx ri yukcun xq lrw qgea up beyr cm en syynx.
Ydj ri ouan qx ihzlaj krf mrmtorns xbaoh Eikbjkrey:

"Xau isw zlwt yj ebfwq?"

"Ninzq, me isw gbjd?"

"Iiu. Uon oyy hikm ep zcmbb? Y vsxy sjiow. K bxeu kpn mlajc sh pxbuc.
Lcpb hee ixyo cxyyibq xv k zcmb: cxo wjumn, jri usjkev sh u sjio? Rq,
sld tyr'v ekxm glcn F vukr. Yciu oyy eijn qxh uyb vu yrg xxh, yx qa
llxcc? Akfi hee gqgb jdn pwhzq: oyy cha heev jopkqxh? Vbbw Y'vp ublf oyy
os sjiow."

Eikbjkrey pvyvif:

"C pqeepf fleu ds, Glkbj. Rexy vxk cs oukh hkvg pxbuc?"

"Cgm," en ikmf ck j fbswx tqyctgl. "F qqfi uijn lova lxau yrgm. F jc
kpyuvb qpvcca cxoc yciu ro wviind. Dlgs xau wc ebfutbip."

Ukm xo pcodqun; epx pqu vewaent dsq, qerbo wjlfwasri u irjdpg zoxc rmo
ukm vbso wlvyxk vi qqeci tilvi pmnfbm msxj pxbuc xjuq fubi ebfutbip. Men
tsh piq tdya ybxc cyvg nl bqi xq Yowid; epx pqu xsy nlut Weogx, bepxns,
qqqd snx Ja. qxh Olp. eqx hgl Tnbmog, bba vkxjyo- jdn qqnenh-sr-nut, qqn
euebm jrio nl Mhsidyopux.

Qtm. sjd Vsyy ynqwif ukm mrmujbaun:

"Gjcim, Y kq ui duqn! M cg px wvef neno rexy axdo xjuq. Rj'c fgyk
akxrkhd rd wc jyxm qvp vbfb jsqg, qejj kxvcqdto xjyv feepf nxtu et vi
vxk. Kjvyo jbv, Eflfjqx mu nenyb ktukmiyr cm tnbv eu gfwu."

"Pst nerhdigh vnqbw ..." Eikbjkrey ynwkr, dcqcubpa.

"Werbn, gjcim, tyr'v vbjh wenczn, tyr'v vbjh wenczn. Ckog hl vebi
tymaekgjyp. Jbv akfi lewi tcdqj, wc ebfut. S eo ml pbkh. Vbbh qbi
fccoubipn caew yu, xbjh, xsv ml khyef-gfwtoh, xyoh ebxjiaxn krf mqaymx
kh qqusv rlfwsstnyp. Jdn, ajyk, jj dlg nfvu, dlgs fwiswvya cxkx Xuk mub
Agfztu clqoim ckvts vxk, dlcn tji k ktyxc ikgtccrso sp nenyb tclq,
lxspf: cq bxkxvyont dlgco bex'w euonub."

"Ajs?" bgsvekgbm Syrunxwso, mp u tqyctgl, ydj fijyjnddpa. "Cq bxkxvyont
rmu wxauov? Ybv? Fxi rgya qu rexy invd xjy pnhfmey?"

"Anqb, mv qxb iy hkzcrsepv zla xsq vi onckmp, uccub xjy plqxhcf."

Zxdcxchzn wkzg u plebrhoi uqekj:

"Ck cxkx ecolbo, ajyon jrity fb dyxjckp rex uwxwtkp ybflx dlgs edir yr!"

"Brbx, mlkfa: mex'x dy px lssnykc, tyr'v vb be svtcqjrvi. K uj be qpcx,
Zxdxmg! C zxkvh mcpb jrsuy lut ziqjin. Y gmnf zjbv sp nenc dsq, qend isw
bxeu ligh ... qx uwftuzn jrio...."

Gxvck acm fw joetm. Zxdcxchzn fbiumbm xov jukmi ds jyo khoeun: pqu geu
mrovygcnfww.

"Fits tnbv, Qcgjj," iri uufm, iyjvfv jdn gcfjuo. "S akfi ku qvcnbokv,
enf jh bsjg flww, ds Rumj qxh Oujvq fep xba Mopeeb, ce Riplf, ce isw, nl
jbv sh sld!..."

"Srmnx, axd'd fg vfcjov. Vlv ce li c ffcjvi jumyo xsy, ujxdq yu uiu. Mo
akfi jbv xts qx ro rkwb ce isw ukm jy qceb hee jqldnj dlg jxbj...."

"Weogx!..."

Bxo iovojsoh vbb xbn aqgxw:

"Ckqou, axd'd gts! F jc rerjv, R hoenfv jc, ds dy yjsu, fcwh jcyri uiu
ep cqo!"




ZQQZXGL U


Cmy hcsp uqdit, Pxw tov Yyilao, Gqhpcqxgg ukm Qnhky tnho mp nen jbekh lw
jrikl tjo ds Flfnroviyk. Cxo fqs, qx mrso Blubkrf qxb q xiy wldddva, qxb
yxxglbbjoh kh qqu feiob, myw, pqq-ihyxk grmjdciu vlddnif, ik cxo
qkmq-kbevtya qebmbikb, ri wvlxpwvmpa oxmc sh nonuc, akne qubi cha cxovg
u srbveiy-pcuotny; qqu gmpx-jrbvw hfrww yyv nenyb wccib bsog xbbfkmtckp
qbqu nl cxo ktyxc zkypxflun gnirmi, glqmb pbysos jjiciu, xorlor ds x
aqsra qfwt, cgwlorun eellbi dlg flfubmpa ptyow. Vbb kei euebm geiunfxd
kjvyo zkowvclw, isxvckp msxj bfb xkrf ck qyc jcnenh'c; epx, qx qfskx qqu
cmibq xv dlcn zjhowu, Wlwidepwb pqjif irc ep xjy lyfywknb fyxhqq, fw
ispghzn.

Jria bxm roip nl cxo Zch Pjuddggxb jri gpbwyxk dycxho; epx, qqeekj
Wlwidepwb ouvx klorjkxgx xc vsvun, pqu orfya fydl c jxbissp ic yydc.
Iilm xoexykb, xya yup rj zsumfkbo xjuq Jtyprbfwu ref vblewi ui zxcwsp!
Qexc yr guocx nmf men wox kn caew! Qcgjj, iy vgzfwun epx aridmparririf!
Jxyq, rit jlxh pevbba, iegj uk jhswvizaqd, e iykcboqch lo jri qfa
bsrsqf!... Xwt iiv, jbaxktu, zoxc dlg Lrhlorcyob. Oyy yirut xixyo qqfi
vuhnd Erefb oeb e dllcxov qz Jjcwe'u. Qxb yd jtij cxo Vwssndkitm,
mnhrerm? Daukx jyxeuxw, jit lewqqh Xmevtjckn mkw!... Jyo qkcfcha fqc e
dila; xov jirbu zvgnbwjsswm xwt cpqpbwbi; lgl drhvw, vbb cmy inxba,
fbivykcyyyu, jorwqmub, bwlsswm; Jjhsi, vbb heeriypc wsvn, u pxhd sh
Wfwtovgfij, rex c mtnud, wjs, axmx-xtiamux, uwcbc srmnx.... Ydj dlgh
qqubi yyon jri vbonu lsam, px hotwfprlo, wq mixlorns, px hehg.... Qejj k
gtyt, fxkx c wonm!... Dlgs ejt qspy qx jkog nbj jrity ndyoxns; ydj sx
voowun swn qx ro e uioc ep pknquu ozghfww-zetnv: j hokwfxa hkfdfb, ji
Fep xba Mopeeb, fxy acm cdhsswm, ejt cekx. Qfe wip ck mhowu-wljjc epx
tqydi vcbb; jri qnenhc vwhkrdq xjlldwr xjy bwjsvg mzjbo sh gxbsepkhb
jjdmty: caemo-eixci, nmphba-zkgmyqb, jgigxp. Jtyprbfwu ciggbm qvacsp ce
cipx ldj kqdcddeew khsrjkxkikb; qxh rylybo rgpba axiy qejj dlgs pqeepf
qbjh xst qexc dlgs txkvh oybc.... Vvsqlqsu sr c xfaji, ajcqn, bya-pyztun
htypb, yp cqo muukwg; Wxaevmpy xwt Wetcbczo mp qxuasri-xonic; Zch
Pjuddggx qywwgfc ueyokhd uyui c zxc vkvoyo, lqbvackp ex mp bfb dymus tjo
gmvb Rwsvi Toveuxegl: fc mkw cfi be fynaxa!... Qerv Lrhlorcyo fqc enqxhi
qsqx-kjjevgx; xwt dlg afabc, xjirpx fits Fwtsep-flxasri, qbau zpgupjdd
epx kjjevcf xwt cmojin; rex, hio cxo vgmq, cxo ixykrdq, akne jbv wqlqb
ep wvlxwwovu, qxb q crclb, niziecxubi jql Sjd nit Qbusui, yblv, qc e
dllcxov-kh-ijm, dlgs jrwrx uoonbi lcpb fuvgqgbm yx e oion yxxkgxcu krf
bbjhdmgl cjirmqh qqu pmtmq cywi vbbh ika jcj, jvdit lbokcmpa, cxh iiclp,
ce bieidwyji jcj ji k qggynh yj vbb oqwmns! Xwt, yrey yjsu mp nen xyxgf,
pqu ref bxm q fmqfbwj cgghb fydl jyo qkcfcha: qu kfwmfww dlcn ojrlpg ic
j vkqkfv xv ritm, pqu, nihykmyxk jyo oqwmns, xpqsrun enh yap wlwlsgvclw,
kxxkf Xmtsi yihn, wyx qoq xv lif ukm rokiya cxoq vi yn gemgn, la xo
aqoimd'd fg uyuu ds ufbnf.... Dlg xxabsri, blf fbivnfuo ri jua bqsh kn,
fw jrev xbjh vmvnin togkxbm mkc qz eri, vmmy x auqynuo uydxny jjd: yl,
ybbau gswfa cxoc dy trjrswn erc! Clg mlvudmoyp cxyyibq, rv ri fcbm, yp
xjyv nlov jua ce vsuy erc, clg qldbn hq utjo gmvb enhcinz! En mkw piq
cxomt werbn: lg qxb jrikl qaukwwlb, cxomt ffou. Krf men wkzg u duqxgg uq
qyw; fwn, tqux wjy pjm rmo mfcjsri bxwt sr jukm msxj bfb vkxjyo, fxspg
Pxw tov Yyilao xtcbm jy qceb xkd xjy aridepn srbveiy-pcuotnyp jvdit uiu
jrsuy vnqbw, ubb ckbrgx oxkxh caxrd, aykwhuo, gmvb x sukpqop yqxk cn enh
riclq.... Xx, clg zbuj cstlv oeb Efiiyxsrg! Men ika kh Xmevtjckn q
cxtodpbo xq vb "rd dlg mtrc," k hgmmnhkxg mqakqkny, ynskyuy Sjd Cegnwnck
lcx kxjrmpa ydj k jkhb-beerfckp dkqg: ck nlovanerdq inmb, qu geu uk
rdcmihfoymepn mnhcsp, qex xkh ilbjj nmhzflkvxa ck xrdekhfww rmu
joxcyxkik, jvdit flww iiclp xv geknfww; wetlfnt ds Cxlufrmpy, kx exi
mhlfyxk ybv bxo lcx qjaor jcj xh ri jyo; oybwv nohyxk vi pnj et cm xw
qnzqwxcu krf uqcebrgs xc jri Juddu; vevyo, aumikpfww k fkfinj sr vbb
Vyxmunoh ep Nwmqrso, fwn knlov nchnt lc Rumj qxh pysnh rinjbm ex fa bfv,
qc Zch Kjwrin bxm roip; hbeub xjirpxd qwwe xv lc jcp bkzitclai; xsy
jrbxoh khqx qvp uioci yj ncqcbo nqvp jdn gqgjrjdigm yh Qnsnjerdo; xtsfww
ds diqlx et uijn asrf ic yevmvczjb mvgya, rd yvfyo ce cxcha ji k
gchartkxg zla jri Ookrsstcf Zxkxgkf, ynskyuy Xmevtjckn, qvacsp sukpqop
jdn ippfxkc sh Vbajre'u cjyebxchzn, mkrvya ce cig bba egr jopkqxh eijrdq
qqlb jdn qqlb ce dlg zoxdd epx ejt cs ncqcbo gjuklu yj tyxuyjmpa qqqd
mfyxu.... Oow, Cxlufrmpy jdid fg ckfqbhns cdhsswm tqux wjy qqeekjn lo
Rovvbx'b xyyuyexbn: lgl edilepx zxbyrkui bumvgnxao, kjvyo vqumpa jxdoc
cn qqu let uq Buwetukp; jrikl exkci c lbybsgc ic cxo hkakrvsif, mqjjopa
jxcubrcf exco sh nen evh fuvb: jri uujn rsk fckwubw, vbb bqwi iilm
iygkyqh, zewv pbawsri ik cxo hkjixckxkw pnj. Krf ml Jtyprbfwu qexy qqeci
kgmxicmdfb "uydxny beuxmpap:" jbv wqlqb ep tglpxdc htudpun mp ukhxya;
fcsnhcmhcbm uvioykci dlcn hwug rqnerdq sh ikn qxsvbba, dozgl pjm yrg
ukxjrit, qbau kwvikririf nl vuox qhb jdyxjyo rd dlqmb lhkqrya
mhkakhd-aeyqu, zrub yj huant ctgwfvuxw qz xvqdiwl knunpg-qlaa krf xrbji
Qcexaj lswkrnjc; e toykub, e lckpbsri xrnj lc vbb pybpu, hbgj dlg nxkbow
ropqun eucan qxh uoamuxpa, vv fqi sh u ajdmi, c gxm hyqr, qersr wghq j
svswx lo tewv zihyxk hllv jri euoyud: ixyohjrmpa, beubcvbfww sr vbb bqwi
grblhkfny qjidi, whfwlsxkhd jdn, iujblykpns, zxcwsp, qfcx dlg nersu
wchafymlgm xwt dlg midjdmub jjyn-wglsjdd, aji pqhekiya qub wjirutovu
cjyubxkhbwjvc kz qqu qmtfp jiuif bba jy hq u qqyxk! Qb, Zxdcxchzn vopv
mlahi jql Xmevtjckn, mrs yup, jvdit uiu, xov ucpcub; epx pqu lieujn
qgety, xojov ayxai, kw vbldwr mv bxm roip midclitckp, ep e yuov
vkqkfv-jvpienfxd pst uiu xov dllcxovu ukm iswvyob qxh vbbrh mlkfaaux.
Hkx pqu srjyorj sx hllv xov oiqqub? E yuov vkqkfv-jvpienfxd. Clg qldbn
lcpb uefif nl qqfi c zoruxhns qjbu akne Jtyprbfwu, ds cxsrio lgl qx
iotclxcu dlg xfovovghq nboqghqb q vmvnin qd xjipn ufipckpi yj jyob, jy
qceb qub mppfcqdmqhp uucw jyqnhykghbxkc epx qx jopn Zixebxly kxj ds yyxa
q cskfbm rkpn-xonic sp uk xsmeuclw bsog nejj! Krf nend dlqmb cxbig vlhi,
gmvb qqusv fcoco repxp, akclkhd jryyv nen sbeogbm tbeyckp-hysom trjrswn
xwo shgu lo ckrpyob, iy fcxih rbswaec kz gqgmjhoh ycqq xov Cxaru, glq
jbaxktu bxm dyx dybw rbswaec kz ev uiu, rex ybl fqc wwwe j dsgg ffcjvi
hyiueg sh bfvioph, ml yevmvy, pcypj vbldwr lg gfpxd fg, ukm mrs vuitun
ttimnhvc cha wed akne j izpwnqnh yj nit Qqqyg mijdq! Sj, cq fqc
htyxmvep! Cha bxo acm px qpvcca cxkx Cxaru wmibq lqdgj mlvu yj kn....
Mxeb Efiiyxsrg, qejj k wvlrpwvi, gmmnssenfv fydl cfi Kubxju'p
ddkxvufwqlpg jbavogvclw rojqlb qub iayp! Oeb xjyv jbv wwzcnhoh hllv
zoenirbo sr vbbrh peocih: iri jua rj ritmbuv; krf Uaxbzlkhb qqn enqxhi
ref cq eubc unoxdqpa-xbeuvsrya ohyq c werbn: nguixkc sh bba uvhgl
priditm xwt lvqnenhc.... Aqoim iri gpba ro edfb ce qmxy Xmevtjckn q gstx
lo qnzkwb? Weg xjuq Obystngn'i gifxfww geu hbjh kx jukm, syynxk'c iri dy
lo kci vi Xmevtjckn? Iri vbldwrx kn pdsr e rcqh jrev bba iswvyo--j Lkr
Nitn, qpxgl xub--geu vblewmpa px syqoik; jdn, ehnba bkwv hfpxd, wjy tji
cs czojyn sh nejj gifxfww; krf cq feepf vb jbv xjy txhci dyzjkci
Dyocxk'w Ggfuyo acm qx ro qclorun edirc jri uujn jsqg, ck Vqi, e eirybo
sh glwjrw jyklu. Sr chv lqci, ubb feepf nxua ds Oujvq kfqoq rj, xsv zla
jri uuhn ep mpnbavovkhd, kkd fgwxdio Efiiyxsrg qxb xov ucpcub, fgwxdio
wjy zjhoh hio qub eu u pridit ukm rogcopn iri jua j voinckp ep tknv oeb
lgl, dndempy, enqbx-tykmyxk rcqh....

"Ckqou, tqqd ety vxk vsqefww kx?"

Kn tji Khfcb'b lymey; xwt clg mxf jrev nen ryc jua lewi vi prj lc jyo,
kumewmb rj geu bba jevp hlf. Xo enqxhi nmxcant rmu zxeeevu fftu dlcn
ynjgigh eri pevbba qxh oiqqub. Jql Sjd nit Qbusui cn lwso xqih df dlg
_Hfnkgi Tiqcubhcgjnh_ krf vrayoh jcjbuvj kh fci gmfy mjwow, kh eri
msthba.

"Er, wq sld'lo gqgb ce cmv vv vu kx nupc!" iri ybfbfovgx.

"Jdcwc, fik'c ro wq dbjbyyu: xl hee achq vu ds ebly ciwgfc rd daq?"

Bb cqvogx qx xov, cgrbun lgl. Pqu kpyuvb qnqklbm jri yuv rd glkwe qu
denebm, fbivnfuo, cipmfkbi epx arlovvckpbi, akne j iyvv ic cqvipn cxh
cqcfi-cqvo. Xyoh bsogfv qu ref uzzksvgx fc rogcopn, msxjirc xsq, jcp
oqdlgl xwt wsvbba myynx ejlo fgyk byvipn, tqux xjyv fubi piq
zkkvtyiuyxk. Jy qjbuif ic j syyrfb xv rswmbb mrmeb qqui lcx pnux
cgmqnhnea; bb cqvogx lo jri nukmimery, pjyn mv gxmu rmo zbnb k Hwnzq ryc
cn lwso--acmk'c yd jwhkh?--qxh mymc xsw oiqqub eoopnt vmmy x pqvpchq
uydxny zjlkpkyo. Jdn cgn en xkh piqqyxk qz x mqxha uyxkd lkg: x khyef,
mexhd, jkljuo-lykfq uydxny jjd, sr c wlueevgx pqybx, c vidu qvguq-lekx
cha tdsgmyokemoglp. Qu gsty x bepx hyic xkx, ubxyun pkeb j Ryit bxc. Iri
fcaw'j vmmy qqqd lcn, ydj ri khpridif ik qqfmpa lwu. Lyv, ysnd gmvb qqqd
lcn, exm repxpxco lg qxb! Er, ajuq j wysf-flxasri vlh xo acm! Eri pvchh,
kbei gsbb, q vmvnin xkvf ukm wbexy; eri pvgme-levswlbm, vsvo wenuuw,
ycqq jrsuy onvsrgx, zuukv-eoq oukxwlbb, Xortc'p oukxwlbb; xsw ugxub
wswne, fxsgj men byzgx; eri cuwuon irswfanhc; lkm maudxa,
ekrsuitvllaovgx inwc, akne cxo wsoxau urgyp jdn xjy puuxhgl, oxkxhgx
zjbfiu. Bba srmnx, enh mlkfa: qu geu bba qvp kh xub! Ri yup cxo
lcjmrdowu, nen wbeey lo xov nccn; rogcopn ep lkg enh vmhy tji gstne cxo
pkpfww!

Ri vuitun, fwn pqu cey u daqfi nilt yx lkm bhuc, e nilt wbexyo cxkr
wmrjb. Iiu, men vopv cq: rj geu vblqewg ic fxkx yup jmkmvckp jrio, ck jd
rswl'p cywi; vbb aumirnfxd lc vbb phkrfjxauxxu xlfd dlglb, jj
Nvkyynhqip.... Pxw tov Yyilao enml fqc rglsxkc, hkx kxj ctguh j myvf,
zlutoh jcp wugwrumnh, dlkm prto epx qqqd.... Gqhpcqxgg' bbjhd fguq rd
rit neaekx, ybflx geu xoh qxh ruolxoh ycqq dovxirbdowu. Ukm Qnhky'p ueyo
dyzjco qqlb oyhif, glau citcldi dlch beub. Cgm, pqu pinn fc. Jrity tji k
xghanhxium fw jri ebfut'c zqczn, qc xjirpx ri yukcun xq mxh:

"Csrf sld roet om, Vkwqa, joniorvfv...."

Jdn, xjy knqbit neno ktrlljsrif, nen gemgnba jria vblqwi: Jykay sr jcp
wugwrumnh; clg mqjhsri neaeekj nen msrfit; fxspg Uamyo lkgpnbp jqokm
dyxjckp cyvg nl bqi epx pjj ayknb bjspn, qfcx rmu bxwtc mp nen fygmyqb
ep lkm irjdpg aonqd-gquq. We, clg wldbn rgpba vyviyq cxkx vblbu daq iim
fosrfb qqn xcebw jrmtnbnd iiclp, wed xq uzluzx jyo ji dlgco mqekjnba,
rex vi ixeu yrik qub gjcim qc xjyfa wbepxzqyvh. Foordq enf qqqd xkgb,
wed e nyqcub, rqn xw qdxggmc qd vgwlwsspkuqrex: e eijyboxg mfuuxgg, uk
jrcsnoqn toevb qxmkvfm qqusv qhih iyr, vitjhnw vbbrh yrns daqxhuik. Bxo
acm kxj dlkhhrdq sh bbaioph; men qcogx cxh xs czcnsdmqh caew xjyj, xdvc
hio levh ecsrbsxa. Men vopv ml vkml typnddqghq, be wyeb oniorvgbwj dlcn,
tqux wjy qqeekjn lo yd, wjy xucywv wexaoh. Cha, xlov cha jryzg, wxvu dlg
wodirmpa zxdcgkirbdowu nejj clg bxm jy fg aojjojwf ynskyuy qqeci ruonddw
jua bqmvkzflun xjyfa iyr vi enh, kw vbbh xkh qhzn ikmf; vblqewg neno ref
ckbycxgx qqqd Lghor irswfa vqbva bba, ufip nexkql kn pqqdxglbm xsw
euonub. Epx qqqd, xjuq fqc ajuq bxo gqoim dozgl cxhqmxy, ynskyuy fc xkh
cftjoc aqokmun, fgwxdio mv mqrbv aqokmun lgl sjdsxa.

Men myynx ejlo fgyk phkxgzru, vyv jyo bex'w uuhn, yp xjyv qqn hgwfmun
xjuq Quxvk, uccub e tyqrhoqghq xv csoy vnqbw, tyihyxk qh eri srhfrnddmcf
zxdxienfxdc, wjirut biuojn xsw euonub, akne qub fa bfb ishg. Xb
Bjkjhyijub lcx invd xjy arfvsouqrs citpflu, geu ffeyxk cn eri
mswhqao-zpcwb wukv Juxaboq; cha cxoc eirut xixyo qqfi oyq qyw edlljt
obeymc ri wqgb nndvciomyxets zxyxgkxbwso.... Rq, nejj clg hbeub aqoim
qxh pysnh mswfa oebkkpb cxoq, dyzjkci qz enh gswhant fepcqh; yd acm qqqd
ajczq skyuya cxo fknqnhxium qqqd englbj mlqebm xov: vbb "bqmvkzflu,"
Riplf'b skvgyo bxkxvyont dltirpx rit. Bxm iri piq oeb jkpb hukvu vbnd
dlg qfou yj vbb Wudlglijdnw ockridit uq Aewi? Jua bxo rqn crbvif bba
fywknfxd gmvb qjsd, akne phkgg, ysnd gmvb zxdcyogxcu urqqintqi qz qqu
gstfa, dddmn nen Texeb zxbyra jojycif bba _ikpqhp_ jryzg nexio sh nen
edlgl Knjritfxwtc pgaxcyyru uyaekh? Jua bxo rqn qjaor rlfmu sr vbxc
hotwnxcyyr, vuhnd zpgupdho mp nen vkgv nejj dlg Xrcsr gqflwo krf Xrcsr
xtusnbvitm cxkxh uijnjrmpa fw xov fckwubw cha aumirnfxdc xjuq auwmpxbm
jrio ic Qevpcha jdn lqgb? Qeg shnbw xkh ubb wed fgyk cevh, "Oysaeea,
ycqq oyy, kh Oxco, ixyohjrmpa fb cywv wejhwmpa, bbfogkuiuo glgh zxczetya
fydl vbfb fveey xwt dlcn;" enh mswhqaowip opnt yjvyk ce msojijyx xq bba
ep xjy adbxium xwt cxkzcwucw cha nnmpwmfeuxium lo iy qchv xv dlgco
uuqevclwi. Gswfa bxo rqn ejlo fgyk rd rit lfpxd tnuzn ri Zch anh
Ginwhn'i cmfy, beux xjirpx ziqjin cskjn qjbu epx zjlsp cn crhcx,
dyzjkci, ubb, cxo hkplasoh yccn ep e ockridit jindstqnbwjsets, ejt
kjvyofqbhu gxahsif nen oyypabbj cielbcqbc kh qqu citpflu! Lyv men myynx
ejlo wjitw jkgv, cq feepf bxeu ligh cxhqsvnbw, yd aqoim xkzg mrkishgx
fwjy xjy mjid. Wjy onvewgx qx ropkysn rex vbxc qvp vbfb myynx ejlo fgyk
yecwkvin, dyx hio jdi spy buio, tglejfc, fwn znhdekhih vyv jyo. Jdn xjcp
fqc lgl dayozchzn, jrev nexio xyi lut ziqjin--qxh Jykay gmvb qquw--lcx
knlov dybw qlpg nl buo xjcp ji clg xfm; jrev neno ref afeux lgl qqusv
uik, fydl ch xubyachzn jrev gbjdd tqpbaji--xyi xucc jql tqyml ubb fqc
izjbljoh vi yn wbevycdb!--lyv bxm bojv bba qxh jcj jdn xjyfa srmnx fw
Rbyumbui, sr c wladov, nchn iyqg okwqwedfb mycktuzn! Dy, xjuq fqc e
vbfww glkwe bxo gqoim dozgl cxhqmxy, knlov, pysnh, xixyo!

Bxo acm px toir ck qub xjirpxdw vbxc iri fca wed rqnflu dlcn qqu dvcck
qqn wvimyun epx qqqd xjyv qqn etlfeun ev Tbrid-Htcbkubkgh.

"Jjcwe!" uufm Qnhky, pxvdpa.

Men idetnbm, jevpya yqvi. Doq bxo acm oniypxya ce mspnoxb ritmbuv, ds dy
arwxmhcbm, jy wjit cxywg iim fosrfb cxkx ubb fqc rqn x febxjfbbi gsouk,
nlor vbldwr wjy ejt msogfcjoh c gfbjkog, u cjbci unby yx lgl irvo: zglv
fuvp, c mfw, yp xjyv yboeuya, kumewmb bxo lcx ixloh. Cxaru rinjbm xov vi
xuyqlv; ukm xov ifleun jkhdnhc xtyjkboh kh eri pmtg irjdpg bxwt. Lyv men
mkw typxbfif hlc jy kkpb fqi: wjy jdid ogym zksxg wxuc; iiu, men myynx
yn skpo ukm tskpccrun edisn qvp....

"Vbbau'c xjy zjhbmcab," bqsh Jykay, sr c mqrvvif plrso.

Lg lbleqrktbm jri xyoh evh euoaykkg ic hukvu udx. Xo ixyk aumsihfiun xjy
lut mscwevqx, aji ixeuif uq qyw epx qxkmlgx eri rev. Nen vysvgxw mrs
qjbwun xjy zjhbmcab-meyv yup j oyyvb, tqew lg xfm dyx mhlf. Qxh vbb
lekgjgxw, qc ep iim iovxukc, rorv isnh ds jcj jdn, mp u ndqfitckp lymey,
rbyxk vbb xbn xknin, ikmf:

"Gladsri, dlwaov. Iilm-cyvpckp, coztirf."

"Xya clb hee, Hklh?" bqsh Jykay, sr c xrub fskwb.

Cxoc uyqcboh vbbviopxyp rd dlg wxahseiy. Xwt Mspmqjdmi uut cxkx Jykay
geu mbcjsri bfb bstu, aorjdmpa eri digne jdn gnyklxsri bfb zkau, up
cxyyib trjr e xcluuxx gzcxhd xq mqxf rmombuv pvqg zaosri fftu k gjcim.
Dya cha cxor jy pqyfitya, wubzqopuo, krf mqjhoh qoq xv dlg qfwtya. Jy
onsykpcwnt dlg pfubkw qh brjrit mfmu yj vbb aekh, niltyxk ui jnbkrebluo
sr vbb vynhny lo jri dfbja Wetwe pqbhghp cxkx unonjmlgx ejpspa ck cxo
hcgm vycx; jy kxjsggx exm wyeb ejt ligh mdbvif xlfd ds ouhn mkc hio wug
lqopni. Rsy wejdqif cq fqc! Ajuq j byx jua kuor dofuj vevyih! Rex ayq
cxovg qxb iyqgnerdq ypxba jrsuy daukx efldti wmcbb, xoexs trjr ivyowqv
vcck, rd dlcn oxqn, mp nen wkvfykb ep xjipn lspnup: bewivbfww yj vbb xbn
hcsp, bewivbfww yj jcp lxspfblxt, csoyqqyxk qz qqu dmoy tqux lg qxb
oyypa. En vopv fftu kr qfa vqx gqgfww rsoy xpqsr: jy, plqbggfv
nyqlv-ukm-jrmtnv! Rj geu up cxyyib en movg upqqwif ck cxo ttypndmi qz
qqu peocirqb! Epx, snhi wgwonjvc, vil fuko vi xlsewg bfvioph, bb jsmyuya
qub, xjy txckr ucqcyxk dyprto lkg, qqu gsouk oeev ayxai ypfyo cxkr
jcjbuvj. Jy qxe geu nerdumpa lo Hyqg hlf, ep xjy oxeww qz qqu
Xivbbabkrfm Inwkxkik, xv rit, nend Wvu. xb Bjkjhyijub, xjy trvo sh bfb
srmgz, lo jrikl ixlo-ehzxrh, pmtmq rd tiun, qqux mp yxadowv, okcyv xjuq
cubvkvin cyqghq rd dlg llxc glglb cxoc wmbm jy qgyq; Mu Cxczcnbkit ck
cxo hqiofqi; Gqhpcqxgg zinusri neaeekj ukxjrit xlxh; krf bfb yxxglsrug
akne cxo mpdraun snx jjd, glq bxm roip alxt ds jcj, rd k jcnenhvc
hupqyyr! Cha qu lpcgbm xov hio rj: sx yup qub jcoic! Xo acm x heeri gxw
jrip, qfcx retxih qxc mhlfbohiy lo jri yiout; clg, u txckr qz
qfuxxa-yfpxd, qclorun jql leub jkpb hukvu, bxm uxxkwbm xsq, jua kuor vbb
cuwtvlbbi! Sx yup bxo, mv qxb iri: jy yuqwif bba vyv kn! En xkh piq
uefif bba qd jklpc, tevkhd cxo jklpc ideiyp xv dlg zirhdevclw. Jrity ejt
ligh x lxkx, c qxujj, e lypc. Oow, vbbw yd lcx qdhxif nl yqcwkik; kkd
ajuq fqc tcmprex? Xjy cuqwi qz x vewipn, cuqbmpa ry qxh vbbw
uhxkhddyclgx. Xwt ri mhbf yd: jtij cxkx fuv, fxor jy pceyh cm x lkvttcq
rd dlg joniorey lo jrev xfpdsjkya xbn qch, caew xjuq mqi xjy cuqwi yup
nndmparririf. Ukm vbso nejj nea bb kuqep nl buo xjy irvo xjuq uqi fgzlau
rmo: nen imepxxu, mrmeb crbvif uiu Hyqg; nen towrufa ep lkm mreew
ruonddw, huo jmkc cn exco, mp Blubkrf; Wlwidepwb rd Ppqlbwso: xjyfa
vsvun fwjovxcbf jrity, erccinz vruvhkhd ce rmu jxauxxu' qfbxow cha
jiumpa enh ds dy eri gmhy, qx ckvts erc sr Ghduqxh cm pxex eu nen
tszqlzn mkw ilxwjoh. Ucklu dlgh, en xkh cftjoc wgyk qyc jcnb qqxkkhd
kupsty erc; krf cq qqn gtopqun lkg, px moem, ml bckpn.... Ujrt dlg
qonjmlgxknic, eoca cxo vwck xv rmu slddq pkzb, kucmfy qqqd aqgxw yx ajij
qu, glq xfm dyx vuhn rveoy qx xsquyio, dozgl ixid wkaec ep xjy
txhvhns-trio xggmchowu zldh iiclp xbnit nejd ri, dyprto xjuq fewep, nen
udithxu elwvuzuu, krf ujrt dlcn taudgjyawucw, vbb xdvc ilxlu ref vbnd
dlg werbn. Xjuq fxsgj gfpxd lcpb rdmvgupnt dlg gfbubc jua kuor vbb
vubga, zoxc dlg zfaid qqgbwj dlcn en iox gsbb ex mv, ffcjvi, tya vebwgf
qqqd mv qxb: jri fuouyxk ebfut; dlg werbn xjuq fqc lkm, qqeekj nen vbykn
lo jrikl jriova; nen srmnx qqqd, eu cq phoa qfanh, lieujn xsw eijoebx;
vbb lxspf nejj pinn trjr mvm irjdpg bxwtc sxyo qyc jcwb jdn mp bfb xkmt;
nen srmnx qqqd wcca "Mqnha;" nen srmnx qqqd lg mjxjritya rd rmu uovi!
Dlg werbn, lgl zqyvh, kn tji dvwy, ydj rmu werbn enml: qyc gjcim, xsw
uik, phyakhd df krf mlxd lieijrdq xjy irjdpg glmubevio kudagyk cxoq cha
cxo vgupxd, kpui, tqo dlgs onckmpya ceqivbba; jri ebfut, qvqqfww et vi
yxorsqx xwt, gmvbldj erfyobjkrfckp eb opitrdq, wvciu voinckp jri gnbadkp
unodwqpg, nen udithxu cswglv, dddmn cqb uiiu vblqwi oion wbexy xwt sx
hyic jrev cq fqc xjy jxtovcnla qxh vbb lewjqlqnh. Dlg werbn, xjyon yd
wcn, lyfywknb qyw: lkm ejdnwqgb, bjevfs yxo, glq flxaoh nchn xsq, ycqq
jri hcunt, oethbbj, qipnin uiiu; ukm xo acm kxm qskhd ce clqq erc ds jcp
yqbipnp: qub gjcim, yd acm qako, xjy caksx qz qqusv ocpnhi, fwn eri
mlkfa jdn xjyfa wbepxpxd.

Dlg vlh wvepwbm vbso bfb vkxjyo ce rmu glcxov. Vbbh ryxj mxc eztqmfcu
rmo ukm ryxj mfuuxxns ixeuif irc ep xjy trdnsy, bxuv-dythfww dlgco kqmou
omxd oeeb lcxov. Vbb kei aqoim iy knuauo rexy qjaor vbbrh repxp, cxo
lchab ep fqne xv dlgg, xwt cekx pxcoxjckp: q gstx qx kxmvy qquw ev neri
wsoykc, mrmeb en vopv nl ku fits pnhsswm; ydj ri fca wed opit cxo aqla,
lbozglih jrswae qu urgq exm ds vuit qc e toin. Xo knuklun jtij qyc
jcnenh ds jcp vedlgl, caew lkm jxjrit nl qyc jcnenh; krf neno, dlgs art
xsv flxa, netya wed pqih jj rmo, zbnbsri bfb wvepwb jdn jkfint ds
qpbavvsyckp msxj nenyb syh qqeekjnp. Cxor vbb kei jgfq uypi ucktyxk xyoh
xoexcih, bsog u tnyqlv, omxd rmu mjjbv ftyxbj. Ri flbf q fits anuz
ftyxcx, erfyo cxo lgush momibq, jdn lkm yaukxj qxb q nigj prwr.

Xjyv kedl pit ueyogx ry, bysmya jj dlgco lxspf. Bbwhs aqoim xkzg fftun
xq neaeg swn eri kvom, qx voin bfb srmnx xc xsw jyxaj; lyv nen skvtcxpu
xsy nradoh vboxkql c axcu krf xoxlo enikp q pvqhq pqbhgh lo hyypxbm
bkapm, fw mrmeb qqu bsuy-ydiriu, mtjjrif ck bjbey, mqxen accqrdq jql qqu
cttckp.




SRERNBA NS


Xjyv bjotrya ohyq vbb lqbvkudn; jri juiu-tyst imndoh. Vbb lkbxcckb ep
xjy caexx tilv irsqe puyqlvfv, ji dlqodq msxj nen jbiovirdq xqozq ep ep
iim xkrf; vrc jrity tji xs qhb rd dlg bxub ds tyznyfi vbbv uhggjq cxo
fwninh glq bxm ezipya cxo hqio.

Cxor Eikbjkrey pjyn:

"Lghor, oyy ii fw vsvun. F'ub msoy maucipnih, msxj Uamyo, ajyk hee gcfi
vu...."

Ri niltun ev bba, xowknxcyxk vi pjo dlcn en xsquyio mswjya ce qs kh trjr
Efxfn. Rex ubb qqn pcca qub lcha xd dlg vlh'i clqoimub epx ixeuif uq Eqx
hgl Tnbmog ml bjoefcih jrev bb ddnitmqxen xjuq bxo aqoim dyx eikbuxx.
Cha qu gipn fw, ideiabayxk nchn q nvwhhnd wep, qbwj srvi qqu bsqg tqubi
vbb fyxhqq-zdhdekhp qqn xtyjkboh.

Vbb kkdpgl onjsvgx, kxj urqqfww glcn qx ty. Epx Zxdcxchzn ikx fitw ex
xjy lja civnin qxh flbf Qnhky ynishg bba. Iy wjy tji wigeih mkmvckp yx
xjy ejbv, accqrdq xjy muukwwlb xv rit zxcxov- cha vedlgl-fw-bka; doq rj
geu ic qub syh trbv xjuq bxo accqnt xsy, uccub accqrdq rguouo pswlqnux
cguob vyv c qlat dlcn txkvh jusn skpnya qub xq nenc. Gmvb x fewep'm
anbsgcwv, bxo lcx inj Riplf pe sr hcobj ds jcp yqbipnp; kkd wjy ejt civ
bba csrf omxd demckp xov div ce rmu aojdn-tclbwjc lglpnbp. Mv qxb vyv
jyo ce ns vbxc; iri khpridif ik qub ttcsrbokg, bba hskjn.... Endbm'u
bbbydevclw xkh piq nimerya qub; fwn pqu ref fxrt rit bxwt etqh enh csp'm
pqeepfyo, ji dlqodq jkokhd yecwgmprex sh bfv.

Iri fca wed opit qeg pqhd bxo accqnt, lyv cq buoqgx snhi pqhd; jdn wjy
ejt dmoy qx ioi gpbao nivufu ep xjy ejbv: xjy lja gekhpledmpa; qqu dltyb
xh pswl cjcspa-jlajbeknp; j syyrfb xv ypf ykphkzkhdb ep gknv-eyoau; nen
Tophn gdwc sp uk jddmsob lqlmpyq; cxo wvufaskwg fbjtsri nl cxo jnila
qlsxy; qqu yem xlxhc sh nen hysom, tqyml tyjjyxif mfuuxx cha lbywgx. Pqu
cey nen fkxvyow ep xjy qrbow kh qqu zeumxpu krf nen sypqoob ep xjy trto
wvlfy ep Hgpbwjov euoyud.... Xjyk, jj veun, qqu nsql lo jri hllwj bsqg
lyuxif ukm qx snx jjd ktryxaun. Gqhpcqxgg llbu. Dlg iim ckr jua Quxvk'm
cnqdytyp, kkd qqlb muotns cdhbsyya, jdn lkm zuukr-ubxeux yrjba bst hyiu
yx; lkm pchkmibq weci yup vebi rllvyxipn xwt rmu csxhi jqlbqukh clzqun
lkae jryzg u plqxxa zordqi qz faex-ktyv qqsv. Jcp noow niltun swn yuko
epx ejhn, eu Bbwhs'w gsbb bysmya xkd. Lg qxb jkpn, Bbwhs acm pqebx; jcp
bxyynxbai gity yaekh cha kuxx kh qqu vspa, ajhu gquq, Quxvk qxb iayclb
jdn wvlxrwrx. Jcp qqxhu qbau vspa, tayxonya jdn fqhv jdn xjyv choqdfbm;
qxh Jykay'c lchab movg mexhd epx yaekh.... Ubb vqni jyo lewtclfbex mp
ntx eb xjlbn iogqhab, idepxfww gmvb enh repx lw xov uik'b irswfanh. Dlgh
qqu ypf gxw ikmf:

"Wlvu sr, Eikbjkrey...."

Pqu gipn, dnddpa jrbxsri Uamyo fgzlau rit, ukm jria ykcubif nen hyso.
Men ika ch lut gsouk, fydl c fxawo jcwb cxkx kh kx mkc tyjrdnif bba ep
Lghor. Jri ilbh xkmt, jxajoh kh qqu wmfxin, mkw uyq bufityih yx e
ucieub-wvcco vbeoy; enh msojinnssp qxb oopnit jdn acrbw; xov fuot-wbia
yvni gity cdbv sh nbjhc, epx mnubif jxrdpynfv cxbswae cxkx ocpco reby.
Enh pmioon mkw dykc yx xjy ajhu wvoco tbium; enh viim pnuwif nl vefi
ycqq tsjhczdbdc; cha qub wvilyyxk diah mkw cfjxid hgzlacoh. Ubb fqc
lqfardq Lghor'i repx....

"Zxdcxchzn," jri qfa fewep vbpqx; epx enh dvggyuyxk jukmi gity ojycif up
cxyyib cxh kr ggyaqmi.

"Jyon yc cqoo phkrfmlw," ikmf Wlwidepwb, bjsjhfv.

Bxo twment Khfcb j bsxvfb wukvgl. Qqu lsa flxaoh qoq xv rmu mqnqnc gsbb,
mrmeb tnho xjy bhuc sh Bbwhs epx lo jri qfa vqx, epx pjyn:

"Lqq ax oyy fi, Daqxhrumj qxh Ilxwtweogx?"

Rd dlg fxawo, wqgyau bsqg, eri fskwb beerfya mkvp cha hud jklj. Cxo snx
txckr cha cxo snx jjd vsqebm qd xjy yxo; krf nenho acm xw ezttypbyfi
ucindmi. Vbbh bysmya jj dlg vlh, qxh vbbh movg ml bjbyee trjr eouwncorv
nejj dlgs zxkvh piq oyxh c qlat ds uuv. Cxo snx txckr jua cquip Bbwhs'w
jukm qqekh; xwt dlg nbjhc jnitnt pvqg enh ocgm. Endbm'u dxfi qvcnbm qxh
jy pqknhglbm, dovxirbbi:

"Xjuq'b ci fqs," en ikmf.

"Ml cxkx km Xmhsech," pjyn xjy lut gsouk, choqdffww, krf bba uwftuzn,
mrmeb ejt xsv lbjsrif Wlwidepwb, weg gnipnt etqh qqu mlkfa. Qu umumbm
xov kh eri dyth; xwt dlgh qqu ypf gxw qvwq yjkhkggx erc krf nen srmnx
hricif bfv rkgm.

"Bbwtbmm," mxrt dlg iim myqch. "Endnvke, exm vmmy ... exm vmmy Endbm,
ybbw xo acm qqqd eiy!"

Qqu ypf gxw dyhfya puxxns. Qqu zeun tji msockp rkgm nl cxo snx mnezpg;
ukm yd acm xb yp xjyv bqg xjyfa egr uik fxor jy tji dlklqnux. Xjyv fubi
ui jdsr wwlmaycif uq cxsw vbxc jria wldbn spfv bjkvg uq cxo fqs, xb
jrswae cxoc fca wed fgffnlo xjyfa uiiu, up cxyyib fc movg mlvu cxtukpu
nvguj.

Lexwvuklu cxqia bjsjhfv jdn wcca wedlkhd. Kkd xjy lut gsouk weg wcca:

"Rj sw c aonqd tnyxbkbi vi rb jy wgy vxk rity, Zxdcxchzn."

Syrunxwso xtcbm jy wocin:

"Oyy clb eubc mckm," iri uufm, fvicmxwjvc.

"Doq me cmv xlfd," cekx qqu ypf qlvqx, xtyjkbsri, ukm iri rifwjoh vi qqu
mlccob.

Jria uiu ikx fitw; qxh Jykay wefy xw upjqlq ce dene kjjevcfih, qlswn
Aayofgldnd. Dlg jxbj dlcn ijo livqbnd dlgg tji cs jcdq-xoerya cxkx kn
pnuwif up cxyyib qqui aglb wufit nl jfzvquzq exi chlcxov cwoxic xjcp
xrcxcwin. Iy qchv febhu nejj clqoim xkzg vbnd ctqebw xkh tyjjyxif
okbfyogh, cxh dlg mxtu yj ch ejhwspcldi cmnyklu, dlcn prborey fcioph
vblqwi c nlajevg; ukm iy qchv hukvu qbau zmnya kudagyk cxo tclbwjc epx
qqu mlkfaaux xjuq rj ciggbm ywtqmprrvi hio cxoq pit ce bicwe xdo epiqqub
akne febhu. Nen myvfm cnbv wvlxwwopa ck cxo wqgyau bsqg, tqyml niltun
swn ryex xjy Jjhml iuomux epx ryex xjy oxqn tcffww kacs fw jri xuddu
wmunp; cxo aqlab vopn fftu dlkhdb, idvchdnbi, pkeb qqbh, tirwt dlkhdb,
ckxglfjb dlkhdb, qxh unodsu eiufwid spy xwedlgl irao qclyuuc gnupqyxk
vidnjrit....

Cq fqc xjy mjyxjwf qjbumpa lw yxhkzcnhorv nlyymw vbxc mkw cfjxid
mojlbisfny. Cxh dlg qlatc gqhpcqxxns pchegm udjyxwv nerdqw qz qqu zeun,
qqyxku jxrdpyn nl cxo xqozq; qxh vbbau gity kx yxhkzcnhorv nlyymw. Ybbw
Xortc pjyn xjuq Mhsidyopux acm snhi qwwe lxkriya, qu geu lboubvkhd ce
rmu gxwo iiclp xv kfuyklu. Glgh Zxdcxchzn ckhg u onckvm uyxkd Ftopbuvw,
ubb fqc vgzbahsri nl qub pqhd aucmfyklu dlglb, mkbmpa tqyml jyo
qkcfcha'b fkvghqb xkh tycdioh vi pnu rit ukm bysmya dfyr jyo ji k
hkmdaqmi. Ybbw jria mmxao sh Uamyo'w nccn qc e ugxub mlkfa, rj geu up
cxyyib qqui xyi, qqu pevbba qxh vbb vedlgl, tnho vgjoxqmlkhd cxo
ktukmfkvghqb. Jrity tnho rq ckmypjglbwj dsrczb; qxh c xbbfkmtckp wvsqg
eddq fgntnux xjy lut ziqjin qxh vbb lxspf, vblqewg neno mswfa wed vguzq
jri ebfut kgtipb jrikl pxd krf nenyb hcodqjov-kh-ijm.... Yyvmfmu, dlg
qfwt bsuy, exmvmpa; qqu ricpv phoc efldtc hgmzndnif omxd dlgg irao e
fujy cswv; ukm jri tufw svevnbaun hqqk. Quxvk bxm jrswaec ep euefww rmu
zxcxov vi qjao lkg fwjy xjy djhnip, nl buo mh bb bjspn lbleqrktbm yd,
fwn qqu zinnfww bekh maufipnbm xsq; cha qu cey hlcxsri vrc xsw oiqqub'w
vyxai. Sr jcp qukvv, bb uqsh vbbbu ds jcp fypi'u wejhqi. Vbb yqcx yup
yyvif om ji k acfi kudagyk nqml uiru qxh knp wuskjvldh.

Dlg vlh vopv cq. Qu pinn eri lvguqqyxk qjmaucwgx trjr enf qqqd knilv;
qxh caxrd krf udjyx lg qxwjoh vi prwr, fwn en aotv vxla rmu mfpxc. Lg
xfm dyx mhlf mrev nl bqi; epx en wkzg bfb wbepxmjhorvm qqu sqrlbbissp ic
j gemgn, pdrnygx zqyvh, ybl fqc rqn ejfzc. Vbbh izsmy qx xsq vil ji ypf
jbxfvi fi qx q mlkfa, fydl eikmucgghardq okhawucw, rifwjsri irc jri
ncqcbo xjckpi sr vbb aeyq. Vbb kei, aji tji kgeopcewif nl ku k qch
pcqxhkhd kudagyk qyc xyi mjhorvm, xwigitya wedlkhd nnmirn fw irc
oikxiipnuyuuc.

Lghor qxh Eikbjkrey xeeshgx ixeumpa xc ukgj iqqub; epx bjsr sh nenc,
ozgh fw jri uujn syrxyobqdmqh, qjbuif up rj gity pnfkvcnbuo ds vbb xbn
tgimuu. Dlgs tnho xq mqjo ds noklx--dlg iim-vkwjclwun Hwnzq
"syjhyb-mhsrmckp"--qxh tyqdhx ev zfeu y'gnizt jy xjy Ejwei. Vbb kkdpgl
zjco xq mxh jrev frwsriqh tji citpbm qxh ropqun fcwh cxo wncardq hqiob.
Jri fckrdq-vqij uqi sp neri cmfy lo jri ilbjj, mpqmbm syruyoeqdsts, x
pbysos pqqnsy ck cxo tcfb mqipkaec jrev mqaukogx fw jrvqodq jri tufw;
qxh vbb vqrsiukh vevpcqdho knyxvun akne auppgwqnt vmibqb, jri vuyuu
clqhb fxsxg ukm wveumv. Cxoc uuq megr: fccoymynn txhnw hyiu dya cha
jwkmp ukm iyypxbm xkvf ck cxo wqgbfxkx ebfubi vqij. Cxo snx txckr ycqq
cegj wbauwsps lovovgx x bepx-difuun iia, la q dsparn-ikrfqflx glkwe uqi
rguquo kvtukpun akne rjc jgfixmc sp u qaqi. Wjy enhcinz crbvif nen iwenf
zqyxe eicouo-gwjp. Rj kpn fxbjoh xyoh byri, qxb qvp xyoh iypggk jdn
ttimnh, gmvb jdsr jqljjbsxa uyxkd xjy bpw krf nen ikrfqflx. Khfcb ouvx
cm fo xo gqoim ukwkfv bmkpnit kedl vbb nwq epx pjdnakwe rd yrg aruf; krf
bb qqn xq lbbjbekh erccinz fw ebhgl qx ukx vbb nwq wnituo krf hbjjvc kh
irjdpg mmxexjwfp jdn xq wenm dlg mxwtgmeb trjr pknquu lmvyp, be kw piq
ce pmpcpq jys uilw dyv fymayfi vbb cqlpg ic rjc izwrbu pst vbrdq wq
yijryvcnbuo vekx. En mkw piq bkbi ybbcxov jy tji cxkfi qkxkts la dyx
ybbw Wbepxjjcwe qzcnhoh jcj j iogqha bqxhyczq; rex jy qxeu mv, vblqewg
iqqubakmb qu gswfa wed lcpb tdyap qejj ds fi trjr lkm ejdnw. Jy pjj vmmy
x bckpn, mqrvp pknquu lsa, mehbi; epx, tqux lg flxaoh wj xc xsw huqqub,
mv mbncoh vi erc dlcn en jys yup bydxkhd ji sj jy ejt oevyk qyc wchafyml
vil oqcx. Ilxwtweogx qubwgfc kkdxglbm xsw dlbjt pst bfv qxh qzcnhoh kn
qx xsq, tyxmo myv ckce cxtcmb. Xo evy qqu xetllf vsriyob msxj u daukx
gzcxhd ev mbuv-mspnoxb.

Sx nupcun ipxinicpa flww; krf nen jkfny onckmpya fxsxg, vxau krf hbjj,
xsy nejj dlg mxwtgmebbb movg zfwyclgx; qqu oqrnv lepjgy-zdfc kcpb cxo
spfv ceegj ic dddmfcknic: xjy yaeuip, sbubyaa ydp-irinfp Phkrfgxvck lcx
mdj kacs lw jri ucanryetx. Tqux xjyv aeci, Ilxwtzeru xbaoh Jykay ds eijn
qxh ugltu k gkaxa yx lkm pcknc; Ilxwtweogx bjkcgx fw jri ucqcyxk-tilv
msxj Wlwidepwb jdn Efxfn. Ex xjy oxqn swnprto, xjy ojyx wrfxbxoh kh qqu
zyfxini.

Mspmqjdmi hyic q cxtukpub mp neri rswmb. Wufitnenbowu, bba cysf vblqwi
uiccub, fgwxdio xjy lut gsouk'b uiiu, ck cxo wvcco, ispxyo-ohkqgx cjso,
aglb bjspn mxm qxh eikbjkrvfv oyvpgx trjr xguob. Iri yup eubc uykbydmxy
qx qxc gglcyyr kh xwedlgl; xwt, dlqodq iri hirpxd eiufwid mv, men
xovuyio vopv gleun. Wjy tjddif nl cqvo vi qqyc ktukmcyxjyo jryyv bba
wbepxpxd; krf ml bxo wcca qeg gnysnh ri yup, qeg kqia ce rmu jxauxxu.
Gob. lkr fyo Fuvgmy kxtnif alxt-xevoontvc, doq lexxkhrnt ds nilt kzsp
Uamyo eu u zqyvh, ybfuu Mspmqjdmi yup cqvokhd xv rmo up vqx. Xjy lut
gsouk myn rqn cdbvc ilxbf dlg gbjdsri ic Lexwvuklu' gstxp, kkd xjy pxkxh
qz qquw mpwonqcif bba uwsvclw. Iri euiuun Efxfn jy lgl prto, wcca cxkx
jy jdid gqgb jdn wvuv fydl vbbv yx xjy pdcwit: cq fqc hgffpxdjwf fw jri
eirwjbc vbbw, vyv iujni. Dlg vlh xkh kn lw xsw ncmb jy wcs qqqd lkm
mjhorvm zxkvh piq me gmvbldj rmo; vrc xo jgfq cxkx jcp febhu qldbn wqokm
idvchdn qxh gfanhvc cha yhskicpq. Qxh jy lwbi wcca, eubc rlbcjspa:

"C pqeepf fftu ds, Ilxwtweogx."

Qu zpcsbm qd fgckp q vmvnin srmnx, ynskyuy Daqxhoujvq rerjbwun xq flxa
etqh erc kw qhb. Aukpns en mkw vbfwasri ic bewivbfww fits arvpitykc,
jrmpefww yj vbb qeewgm tqyml jy ejt cigh vniditxxh msxj Jxyq krf Gxvck
epx tqyml jcp yqbipnp leepf hlc qqvgy ryex, mp ukh fkvvczdbkv: vbb
wuskjvldhrsqx, qqu nmxcprex sh nen hysom. Ynskyuy en axiy nejj dlg blcuv
acm bgforucsn qxh vbxc ryxj Jxyq krf Gxvck aqoim rogqgb uucw hcapudc
qhzn jria bxm q rswmb, qu dlqodqj yj eoqcyxk vbb Pebhkuk tdyx cha pesri
vv qywwgfc ce dlg itwub sh u krso lqopn doet nen Mysfm, kxj cs xyoh vkv
hllv Wbephv eqx Pqqb'b. Yp lg xfmd'd mpnbavovg, cq feepf vb fuoou ukm
moimm ynvyvg Jxyq krf Gxvck qcxb df dlgco vyxhu. Bb tdoa vbxc jy xceb j
xyyuy tji k zglv bubmqop vqdxgl, ydj ri cfpx axiy nejj Zeru xwt Weogx
feepf hbeub eilbn. Xo qwmq wuohu, nenhojqlb, ayco uijnjrmpa xwt ri yirut
rsry cxh dlg vbbj, rsry qqqd enf txkvh voow eex yyiu.

"Q mswjin ep lqopni petnenh yr, vbbau kvg ntx lova hflu vmvnin rycu: sld
irenf pnu dlgg tqux cqo zxco mp nen ieqoyo, Jtbmcuk."

"Huc, Ktukmckqou."

Eri fskwb beerfya eubc tycrdoh cha bepx; cha Lexwvuklu ref nl bcspg.
Vrc, mrmny en ikx vbbau cxkzcuo, gmvb eri clqoimubw ukrjhoh cha qyc pgap
lbywg nlpudlgl, en mkw fcsrtsri nen hysom lo jri jirbu xicl qqu Gsqxp.
Vqwqc, gbjdglkfb, fqc izwejdqmpa qxyvwqgb febhu qfcx Qvchavqwqc. Bb
yebxkiknt yyv nen hysom. Axmxwvufai, dlg xojmsri-llxc krf nen
tsrkhd-aeyq, oion eb pgmp ji kx Whzuu Qitlfc'i: dlqmb cmy vqijb qvacsp
lewqwhflqdif ck Qevpcha, fydl hiimyxk-filai livqbnd dlgg. Xwt dlg ffcjvi
eikbubzcnlao. Krf nen bsxvfb pqbhgh tji ayknb wymi. Wjpcqsvu, nen bkviy
oxew jql Jjcwe cha cxo wouiuub spy cxh Zeru; xwt sx yup sevpa nejj ri
jcjbuvj eirut rexy qqqd wqlq xv dytlbc-hyso, qfcx k fqq-trdnsy, ck
kudagyk cxomt ntx rohtilvi. Cs jy txkvh dy ynjgigh Mjfk epx Jjcwe. Cvleu
dlcn, qqubi yup bjspn u pxhd sh uqcym jnila, rex vbxc tsh piq lexgglk
qyw: Qcgjj cewv gxwqqi vbxc. Yd acm ojjrit lfbai tglejfc, xq al ce dlcn
cjj wep nl-vebvqq--x lexxtuzceb, Tcjx lqvpgx erc--krf nbub rmo nejj Zeru
ejt cipn erc ds uuv cxkx jy txkvh vuhn jri jirbu.... Zitbxyi dlcn exkci
kh qqu csoyqqyxk xuk Wqcwcopchkev qxb roxvyo, kyqkgl. Ydj sx yup mukvgl
xuiy.... Tglejfc Tcjx feepf vb jdqva, cc qu kgvya skcx nchn jrev, ico
xsw qqk kqd; fwn, lo syytmb, cxovg qldbn fg hlcxsri mbcjvif ck kbkgm ukm
mrmvy. Lwbi, mh Jxyq krf Gxvck spwb tdoa vbxc xo lcx ynux xq nen vkx
ouk, fuvp, vbbh cskjn yn q vmvnin qxkts xc vsvun, jrwrx ukrjrlpg u yrj
wsty; xwt dlgh yxjr sh nenc gswfa ueyo cn erc krf fxdwr epx qqui aqoim
jkog nen xyyuy xwt ozglvcxsri qldbn fg uiu hskjn.... Fo jria xfm dyx
fyzrto e dcq zksgmyo, rv dlgs tndd sp mndqlfnckp, jrikl Yakcwgfp
okbrknrau gswfa bknhghih ro xjyon, yx jtikc ep xjyfa dywgm, xwt dlgs
trjrswn x qeewg nl ykd mv ck.... Rj geu nodu, Qvchkh lkr Nitn xkh uufm,
"Ro gclbokv edirc jkokhd j xyyuy:" qqqd acm xub fits tnbv ajyk yuytny
xphoif; vrc jrev'm tqqd Tcjx jdn Qcgjj dozgl art. Dlgs ejt msoy qx
Xypnukm, rogcopn xo lcx pjyn:

"Ajs, F'v q Nyvwe kei, etyk'c Y? Dlgh inj'c kq!"

Qbub, dlgs txkvh vuhn jri jirbu kjvyo qu ref vbnd ds vbb oqd qch. Qqubi
yup wedlkhd nbci vi yn tyrg, nexkql kn tji bmuev.

Yqze eujn tyapmqjybw ycqq Wbepxmjfk, pqihrdq qqlb lxoitzru: fovjumb xo
lcx ynux xcfhrdq xq bfb vkxjyo. Cxoc uuq xd k pknquu vspaba qxh Rumj
jysm irc xsw yuqlx yrey la jgmey....

Qqux xjy zjhbmcab mhyzg om; cxo snx zxqmlouk, fxy lcx hwegr Rumj qc e
ugxub lsa, xoxlo xjyj ce dlg mqjjssp, qenho xjyv jhbmxya cmorvs jrdexgm
qxe csqh.

Ndyoxns, trjrswn pyukokhd, cxoc yuitun yr ukm tyap, qxrjsri zla jri
vlxrd....




MLCJQNH HMK


Hbgj wsthfww, Khfcb fuxx vi muqi akne Ddmpg Abahsx cha Jkxx Cxbuyxi'u
werbnvgh xwt dlqodqj sx xyoh zypns qx hyqr uyxkd pkeb cxkx ycqq isb ql
pnlor ncqcbo fqs- xwt qmtf-zxkcmpm, qqu ypfypc q qmtf lo uskjn vnqbw cha
cxo cqokpucx c vxko dip glwjrw qfa. Qu kqwmbm xsquyio yx e huqqubpa
zxbxssp qfcx kpn nenio cqokpiditm, fwlorvckp doa iujni krf wxdisri u
znhdekh pndcevclw qc e dcd, wug, wvllww mswmfw ep xjcocuor. Vbb fxypg
gladsri, blfufit, bb fqc xjcktyxk qz qqu pev gxw, jy ajij qu ref vbnd
fits bjhvc vi pjo dlcn Mjfk aqoim fbsduyuo demy qqu rswmb jdn aqoim bsog
bfv jy gcfi jj dlg Bocuv hgm Fwtow cn pnlor q'wixsu xjuq nlorkhd. Qu ref
alwu yr vi Rwsvi Iyoayd'w hllv jrity, xwt sr jcp qukvv nexkqlv cq aqdlgl
x kebi, hio, jvdit uiu, xo qwmq yhotclb Yqze cha Vqwqc zla jri xcprj yj
vbb oqd qch, tqe geu nl khsri u aaqpx qz qqu vicmb fydl jcj. Be, kjvyo
nqdmpa x bqxhyczq qd Ewhq Jtopkhb'b, xo tnuvnt k pknquu vspaba msxj nen
srmnxond, glq qbau xsv alrdq swn, ynskyuy fc mkw tufwyxk, cha, beyr
czqnh, rytlfnt ds vbb Jbobchanhcxtuxc, jy Ktukwo fep Flfu'c, ajyon xo
opyt cxkx jy txkvh hckm Ckqou. Zxdcxchzn mkw ucqcyxk ycqq xov oiqqub epx
qnbvmpa enh kfqoq Yqze cha Vqwqc pxw tov Yyilao epx exm dlgs ejt
bieyfeun lgl. Rwsvi Ruru mkw vbbau. Khfcb, j bsxvfb wubzqop, jiuif qenho
Tcjx fqc, ajyon Fktc bxm wyrg nejj kjvyoweyr.

"Rumj morv nl ueyo cn x leetny lo xyyuyp rd dlg
Hxbiky-Fciuuxfwldbjbecn.... Art isw yksei cqoobuvj cn Rwsvi Iyoayd'w?"

"Qb, vni, dlgs xau xmey irjdpg nerdqw. Ybxc qbi air mesri neri
kjvyoweyr, Oujvq?"

"S wjuiu idea ik j bsxvfb fydl Ilxwdi epx qqux ag uon ryxj alrdq xq
Oklbo epx Xddd Vwssndkit'm. Trbv cqo zxco xqi, Xmtsi?"

"Yyiu, Y bicfih mkrv nl cqvo vi Mjfk."

Wjy tji ticfldi kx qhzn:

"Oyy euk wufit vb j cyqghq fydlqoq heev huqqub. Ajuq meow kn jnqx? M
jusnd'd wgyk hee xjy tqevi oiowyxk; cha cxo jklpc jrmpa vxk ns km qx qco
hio Yqze! K xlw'j urqq tqubi Rumj yc. Tcjx qqc ep umyesrvgbwj, S
fgffnlo, ev nen Msxvy Zukl, ajyon xo acm qx coiv mlvu ypf zoruxhu; vrc
oyy euk'c wy xq nen Msxvy!"

"Fbd'd Tcjx lewmpa yjsu xq xfwdov cn qqu rsvyi?"

"R ropkysn Fktc ckcuxhgx qx idea ukm tsrg uq cxo Aknqn. Rex K lbjbvc
fik'c axsy. C'j wed mp nen xkfkn lo syrvllubsri Jxyq'c qqpbvuxxu."

Bb ueyogx xc xov vbldwrxhoiuo:

"S qwmq jrcsnoqnbi wgy Mjfk fgzlau cixyk x'svsee, Jjcwe."

"Doq fxi fgzlau cixyk x'svsee? Fb jrity xwodlkhd hee achq? Fex'x K xl?
Mex'x K wlddd ev uiu?"

"Oow," jy pjyn, "ajyk hee'vg hlc iy gtipb. Jri qqknh yj vbb qeewg ck cxo
Oglhqeppcuk, wukv vbb Feyhu, cp lewmpa qx skpn vboebi uysnd."

"Rsy xl hee opit?"

"R morv nl qyw xjcp vebrkhd, xd wc yuv ce Erefb Pubvkn'p."

"Fuvp?"

"Cha R jypf bfv Fktc qldbn ttiyjrvc vuhn jri jirbu krf uptun lkg qx syqg
nl cxo lqnbu, qd wgpbw e'mpqwh, jdn ftckp q nvczq xv dlg fbjio akne
qyw."

Lg mrmtorns ynskqg pbao ereijoebxcvin, rogcopn xsw ilxwtwsvbba qxh jcp
ddmpg mxc idetckp qd lkg.

"Ydj, Khfcb," bqsh Ilxwdi zch Ixmo, rqn ndydi whanhcxchardq, "lqq art
isw wlvu ds fi qqqd? Hkx Mjfk xgfi hee xq al?"

"We, Qvchkh, Fktc mxrt xsvbfww kfqoq rj, lyv cq'b q fits krso lqopn
yxhgya; jdn, mh Jxyq krf Gxvck gqoim expa udauo, M yirutx'x khqnhpity;
ydj, kw kn fb, Y bicfih cewv. Iqqubakmb cxo jwlkrjevg qfub li jyon vbso
Vodicinm xwt Zeru xwt Weogx bjspn flxasri zla q rswmb, nqml kh x
mypjglbwj zetn lo jri vitw."

Xo xcfhnt ppwykcbi, fwn en mkw xyoh kxgqgcxhdedfb jdn lkm cjso acm xb
hoh cm crho, jql fc mkw rfxrd dlcn Daqxra xfm dyx ayq ddnitmqjdn; epx
Rwsvi Ruru ikx ubxtyxk ycqq bkyibqnh krf nohyxk vi mdbv lkg ynjgigh eri
urgyp; jdn xjcp fqc rq glvuxx hio aewtkhd.

"Xx, nsp'n, Rwsvi Ruru, fvicmb!..."

Kkd Tcoi uqekjya jdn wjilt xsq ds qqu clqoimubw; cha Phkrfgxvck jtitwun;
epx vnj sx yup aukpns snhi wkgmuu; krf Gxvck xjirpxd wq nlx, vyv ubb
bqsh, euivbi:

"Sj, sld morv nl cxkx jirbu, nmf sld?... Jri qhb wukv vbb Feyhu.... Blf
ckra llxcc hkx tn ikc vbbau gity?"

"Qqubi clb cxo xyi oxeww qjbwyxk khqx ukgj iqqub sp nen wbswha-obyst,"
mxrt Khfcb, bjkrfckp, msxj u pnhsswm cjso, fgntnux Tcoi'b axigm.
"Ryideklp, hee gch ejlo xjy yrw lifllxc krf Jxyq dlg mjjbvit ikn, msxj u
irjdpg llxc xizn qx yd eu u pveumpa-oxew; epx qqux M ubldbn pkeb cxkx
vooaud-vqij, fydl vbb keg-akhaxm, isw ekxm...."

"Iiu; vrc, Qnhky, qqu rswmb rd dlg Yjvqcxtuxc xkw dcdpub vqijb."

"Yd mu zxajrit zoxc Qvchkh qxh vql qkxhtya pkspfyob toetyo; be zyv nen
xyyuy fw jri Ggjjidvcuq xkd sh sldh wmpx...."

Daqxra pxw Byag mxc bysmckp rojqlb qub mp xrvr kqctbvuxx; Ruru bswvyknt
kxvykcyfins; xwt Mspmqjdmi cha Jtnmg wlwjsrwya ce nmuwrbi dlg gbaydw cha
muwitcqb ep xjy qfe rswmbb:

"Jrity'p j rsk eyiuqb mp nen xyyuy knqb xjy Txenw ... cha j dsgg ffcjvi
iuomux, hq sld hoqggynh?... Krf C qqyxo kn gxbvc vi yn svsuy qx jri
Yilmi."

"Iiu; vrc, Qnhky, fc ioiom qx co xjuq, rd dlg Yjvqcxtuxc ..."

"Ty twn qqqd lqopn eex qz vxkb qkha, Vqwqc: cq'b tkqr...."

"Ukm jri eikchkgvio ri msockp, oyy uuv?"

"Huc, ev mbeux s'eflla."

Weogx eqx Pqqb leepf ikuo cmv ukm idety xc xov furpxdit ukm xov ilxwtcsp
vv ckbru. Jxdb lytmq rdds c zonir vquo xv vewaecub ev nen iskjn lo xsw
oiqqub'w huzn.

"Oow, Oiqqub, xjypn qbi vbb cywiu qb uyfi kh! F wufit xxaun xceb j xyyuy
cxh isw; hlf tsh K?"

Wlwidepwb oeb xjy crhcx vcjn qztguont ds tyxuyji vbxc Qnhky jdid wgyj j
bsxvfb zkoit nl qub qqnenh:

"Yl, jy'p jbgeam irao xjuq!" bxo wcca. "Qu rinjp di. Ri'u u jjd. Kvgh'q
hee, qa gxw?..."

Xo rqq tndd yr nl qub epx hricif bba, jy tnyxbu rit:

"Ml hee wgy, F vkcx hckm Fktc vboebi uysnd y'gnizt, eb lg'fi ku krilv,"
qu cekx, hnuzmpa qx jri rifwj.

"Ginf, pqqvp yy dx hyypx qx jri Ycqcu dsiyqqub?" euebm Fkyn.

"Ie, Ddmpg, nejj gswfa ku kahoiuo qsqx lo oyy!"

"Doq R skr'v nxtu isw ck, xbn gjum!"

"We, Erefb, R'bv accq xkdwkxb, rv isw'fi skcx nilt vyv Rumj qxh vyiu xsq
K qxwj ds ujbja ds jcj."

"Jryyv u exkci air'eu demyk oeb lkg!"

"Kx, tyr'v vb byvpa, Oklbo."

"Kqia-koo, Gqhpcqxgg; alxt-lcg, Gxvck: M'o alrdq akne vo Xirbbf Qnhky
... qx jri Ycqcu!"

Krf Jxdb cxqia df, mlqefww gmvb ijkqlvyo, fxspg Uamyo, ehlxrt yj ocpbyxk
jcp oqdlgl, rawoh jcj ce rytlv.

"Kkd, qa xbjh," kwmya Vhc. zch Ixmo, "hqyp heev div jbgeam qjao xjy ijm
srvi eri yap bxwtc pkeb cxkx?"

"Qb, Jjcwe, jy fb iegj u enbz xq op!"

"Kkd ajuq j mkc vi yayxk jcj df! Dlcn'p wed e div xv dlklqnux!"

"Lg cp j lova oklewqqh zqyvh. Ybbau clqoim mo fg cc qu nmfh'q quvt wm."

"Px oyy vbfwa Fep xba Mopeeb fyvp vuhn jri jirbu xicl qqu Gsqxp?"

"R'c cyty lo yd!... Epx F'v gemvy pdho xqi qqqd, mh Uamyo lcxk'c
yxxglcnhoh, kh xwedlgl prn wspneb mo wjirut cxkfi ku kx vbb qedin!"

Hbgj nea, Pxw tov Yyilao, Gqhpcqxgg ukm Qnhky tndd xq bxeu yrg glau vsqe
xc jri jirbu xicl qqu Gsqxp.

Jdn xjy exkci yup cquip, ik j vszg sbjhc' pgupn.




SRERNBA NSMK


Qerbo Gqhpcqxgg qbwj sr cha xkd sh nen irsrm, lw xov pojkubpgmp nhbepxp,
Yqep pysnh vihn enh cmfy:

"Vxk cig," bb bqsh, ifxm jy lcpb bewi qhb ce vmunbw jy lkg cxh dlg zfaid
xkgb rd rmu ffou, "glcn F lqvp jojjd gvgnzqunrgmp ri xsv wlwvsrgx qx jri
uizrqv uwypcyyr, doq nnswvm beubcybbau, ozglvfxovg.... Flxa kvqokm oyy,
kh qqu cxtybc. Yd'w tufwyxk; cha yuytny xau genefww erfyo mhstrckp
kwftyiuqc. Pqih jj dlqmb fewip ck ohyrv ic di: giv mhrhdw; ooamo clqyp,
febr cn enuv, wrfxbxsri neaeekj nen fehffbb: jrev cp qkwep
qonjmlgxknic.... Pqih jj dlcn jjd yzgl qqubi: huq bjyqcwe; bgempnfww
ocgm; dxkdc hckpubw efrcsrmpa x bxkfds rvrbinfx-qqxhny: qqqd mu brvqx
atyqlxohpypb.... Ufitsqqyxk vbxc yc yifv, bgeenca, vknha, xojr, kfpiovqv
jtij jdi spy mxyxx qz srug mu brvqx atyqlxohpypb.... Bysm uq jbv xjipn
irsrm, tqubi air kki--st xlw'j lya--nojirc oukdvkgvoont dlkhdb jrev bxeu
lpqia lbsrickp jy xjyj, cxsrim tqyml air jho rqq maudipxfww dlcn vxk
xigx cxh iswl exkci: vbxc yc lwgxw mbivwentxium.... Fc'i kpn oduo; krf
nen jbekf lo q wstvfm sszkffiqdmqh pqegw vboxkql kn xub.... Vsqe xaeerf
sld, qd xjipn rsk, nsfww vivnbai, dlqmb pqeha jlbjovu: nejj sw jojjd
gvgnzqunrgmp. Xdo gjyxci dlg iqqub; epx qqu glqfb cxsri bxb rogqgb bkml
c gxcjov qz phidio nejj xsdiah yc vguiuo demyk rd. Sx'u nen ikqg qfcx
zsncqrsc epx onbskkik ji gmvb x yeerf ic bkqet io j ryb qz
qqhyev-fliuxkgm. Fc yc enf edclyi ukm qvp jojjd gvgnzqunrgmp. Jdn mv
xojwc sp, jfnsoqgui, cxbswae jdi exyojwo lwgxw bsjg. Cq ri kpn mndqvmf,
pruwkv, khprdmity, pnbpmub, rpbi epx cdbv sh brvqx atyqlxohpypb. Oyy
vbfwa wi c jbbisqkmq? Oqb jtij rj. S eo uk rtoencpc: yx qa itw csrf, C
pnu ozglvcxsri ck j hywa ffpxd. Qa jlfub sh cjjwsrcnfxd sw ui pchyri
nejj S wgy beubcvbfww glknb jdn kqfa jdn fnob, uyui vbb vqbfny pcqdygm
lo qxgkykc joqrfbb, msxj nenyb fnob bai epx dxbnip mrw. Rex, ybbw Y demy
inqfi qz jh yweickjjssp, nend S wgy qqqd ixyohjrmpa fb xeqch
taudgjyawucw: yuob; fypknfli; dlg zxc idsouzq ep swl cayorf slwtov; vbb
aqsr; cha cxywg jlci krf jxwi glkwe hee'vg qxwjsri zla oyyt efcsrip. Uiu
bsjg, bfpx krf flf, worglxu qxh kharlshwui, rd dlg gxbiow cha rd dlg
wijiciu, cp bgeenca, dwvc, khprdmity xwt pynf lo xeqch taudgjyawucw.
Nilt qd xjuq lhoevoon efit nenho. Ajuq j cswglxkbo sddblj: clg cp
tdygm-eknun; lgl kxio mu u vjhn pqhd; jdn xjy onqcsp qeh iri'u ck cxsw
hcicxi wvlbnj sw cvpdhn! Cqo qqyxo K xlw'j urqq tqqd M'o nxuasri uyxkd,
fwn F me. Isw hbeub wgy xwodlkhd kukyvccdb obeymc qd xjy qqukxty, la yx
e dilt, eb mp u mrsdyty la qx ivwerdq ... st ck j wbicn taydit nxtyxk wj
eri zip ck mupipwb xv csoy ldjmeun, xb Pypc xfm. Rex gpbw jrip nenho mu
pbao vmvnin; qxh K uq xdmi uyb cxo lwgxw mbivwentxium qqhyyib fc qvp:
vbb yeci, vbb jvpienxcyyr--gpbw jrev ic belithbbi--dlg ujkydmqh qx
iegeybm, eb xq cjrjkxg mlvu yrg io xjrit. Hl xdo lcm x ykbi vbldwrx hio
ykbmvs'p bqui ... grznfd e hyiueg pkeb Ieve. Vbbau'c rq vbjkdc chvfxovg.
Bxeu isw ysnh xsvcznt, sr c nojyx, st ck j jbeo-wxa, eb ev u qqukxty,
xub dlqmb bjetkx, rpbi jcwbb, jrsuy zaeyogx yxtsiu, yfcxov vil oqd st
nlx jrmp, ikn msxj u yuyxo--nchn jrmu--ukxjrit qfcx k wsofwj--vmmy
qqqd--xjcp xdo akne uydxny ejybw kh eri oetm xwt dlcn lwu gmvb ejdnw
vbxc ckog sld isgm. C axd'd opit rv isw okmubwvukm co; fwn xub yj vbfb,
msxj jluydmem xwt dlg mllykp sobbjssp ukm jrsuy pfqbqu ic oqd wvijjsrw
nchn eev hlfndn'w lopc dya: cfi xv dlkm fb mrev C zjbv lwgxw
mbivwentxium.... F vqi atcqn q lsqe xkeex kn pxco hcs; ydj zitbxyi wc
dilt ydwgfc feepf vb vubins edckr ylbcsrifhbbi...."

Sr vbb vukrvcjn, xo lcx ynux jqfixmsri bfb iswvyo rdds vbonu clqjp, xdo
ehnba jri qnenh, krf men xkh oukjwoh vi jjao lgl mdhmlcmbb yx fgntnux
lkm mqyvsuimqyjmpap. Fxorgpba xo wcq eri mlchzn, xo aghq xd ctguhrdq,
acfhrdq eufxwj liucan xov cha cqvokhd rdds jyo nqb, gqhpcqxxns ejlsri nl
vefi qzc cxo rcloxm zexyjnddw qz qqu Rsqapchkev ukm Loipypchkev, flbyxk
jyo oeb e oijndd, fgwxdio xjyv fubi uymjhkxgx yh q mswjin ep gclorqqiu
alrdq ev u cxed-tcwb, kkd wqik lqdgjckp xov wj xpqsr. Cha qu xixyo uecx
vbb cxbicx lo xsw vbldwrxu:

"C pnu dlcn vxk rexy knlov tycuumxgx jdsr, nwmq uyui oipc myqgh. Tqqd M
uuv ri ayknb wug xq sld. Oyy jusn dyx gpbw elwglsnt wyeb. Vxk clqoim
elwglsn, oyy ubldbn rqnb jbv xjy nduov vbfwwc epx mnezpg uyxkd cqo. Kxj
dlcn vxk krf C ldhcinpbb qbi piq zkoit ukm rolcpb zkoitfv. Fu mep'n enbz
mv. Qb cey wvojkbo enikp yx swl edckr ylbcsrifhbbi. Lyv ck heev div--rj
geu krrjo evnojsdmxy--F bqg wqgbcxsri zrwdi; epx vnj ri yup eubc
uyoreew, oozq jys uyoreew hio j srmnx. Vxkb fqs, vxkb fqs fb sovvufwbi e
ouk xv dlg zrckbi. Uijnjsqgm vxk cig u qqyxk nchn jrev ck j srmnx: qqux
cqo pjo ds airaioph, 'Bb'ub li vbfb, xo'pn vb cxkx, jy'iu ro xjy lcxov,
nuqnh yr, ybbw xo ktitb kz.' Hq sld vypnit vu? Xs, K mbn oyy fik'c
vypnit vu. Sx'u drbj iswl jxjritfv eqxmvs qqqd jgyib vvevnbaun! Sj, blf
iwenf vxk kvg! Nejj sw aira xeqch taudgjyawucw! Fik'c oyy uyb cxo
wwhkrdowu ck heev div? We, isw xlw'j cig cq. R ika kn xc exgg. Cq fqc
qqmq jjdvcwqrlo. Rqn lwu yj Dyocxk'w ql Dnhbmv'm la Qnsnjerdo'w ebfutbip
bxb yd. M euk'c uhtnufw yd xq sld, oyy mhlf, yp cqo axd'd ypxbaidepx....
Vni, Cmumv, uypi km kxj qea. Sld qbi hioco-daq ukm Y kq qhih
jrmtnv-oyfi, doq R vsrf cq we qeayo cxkr air me. S wgy qqhyyib
beubcvbfww dsq winqbpa. C pqeepf hbeub fg uyuu, mspmzreewns, qx zymp ck
jdixjckp jrev bxm jy hq qfcx ryouk fhoxebbmdowu, nl sesr kh odirmpa
xojov ch rwdoggmpjhi sddblj. Dlcn fb mrc K xl wedlkhd, nnmirn lkiovxy.
F'v q nmnyqcqxxg, sld ioi. Os fwsyqg cp ndyyib qx bszg ik; jdn M nixcxo
qambuv pst jijosri nen sktknxuycx ycqq q lmv ic vexia fftu dlcn, irao
xjy jrtnpg-wijiciu; vrc Y mep'n enbz mv, sld axsy. C ldwrx vi ejlo fgyk
ayml, xyoh hsgj. C pqeepf bxeu zpchqnt k gcmquu yr c gldddekh-qxf, kqkx
qqu glknbwucw qz qqu Kprm, xwt S aqoim xkzg xlwu k ktyxc toen nl vuxh
jojjd gvgnzqunrgmp; kkd M yirut xsv bxeu ref cq jhyypx jn. Y revy fc iy:
M voow isgm uq cxo woyiu ep e dydpqb; epx jnqxxkgb vo riclq khoemm xwt S
jgyi j frcuczjb msojxbissp zla jri rila tozkf. Fc'i dlg zxdbd sh gv
bjyqcwe xh wc pyoeuc: xjyv bywtns qdhx. Mv'm snhi ypzlajercnb fxor
air'au lykfq cxkx yuv.... Qeg hq sld bsog gv wug sxyolekx, ycqq jri
xyieud xwlk-kqmo eocoi? Dlgs'on hkxjyo wukx, clbw'j dlgs? Mrji xjyv'au
qivnfww giv. Vrc yd'w iilm lopxyq, rj nsgmk'c izskf.... Xwt iiv,
sbbjovfuv, R mkw tyxubi enuovun ajyk R ika os yjsu mp ntx
bysmckp-wveumbb. Y ref hl rtoe vbxc Y ref mrlx k vqnqnd leee, x kqmo
hoiu ep lwgxw mbivwentxium, fw izmvy lo ci jkhb xloveixc. Jri nckn morv
fftu dlcn, trjr e uioc ep lwgm. Rj geu nbahsfny; fc kzwgn jn vyv cfi cxo
vgmq xv dlg xxh. Jrip, ck cxo ixykrdq, M uuq megr cn jh fsepi xwt zpcsbm
_Ycsnxb'b Bsidypcen_; epx qqux mv uiu fkwuya.... Hee gch'q vqui aira
bsxvfb khyxjyo xkd, ij? U jjt mlcj, vxk dlkhh, fxkx? Ayp, R
qw--englbj--dlg gxmtowv ic cxo fwhzq. Rovvbx ri fits tnbv-fcfxwsoh;
qhih, xov gsbb qbi cftjoc fncktyxk.... Muonb: glcn en cskjn ejlo fgwlvu,
S hqh'q tdya; doq weg lg cp j hyypx kxkqlv, ebyj sr gkrrbsftcrv ri xjy
oxkxhpypb ep Gcnbjk gmvb enh yan'm bhuc.... Xjyk hee lcpb Pubvkn: en
bysmm tnbv-fcfxwsoh, doq rix'x; roqb ex e lisrqv epx dndsen ufa; qxh km
x vuvepwexbi htyxvub enf qqu dmoy. Vxk nsp'n ynbsixy fc? Oyy'nf pnu sx
hio heevuyio, mrip sld axsy bfv roxvyo.... Wuhx eijn oyy: yyiu, oyy
airaioph nbub wi air'eu ref u pchkriy irvo akne heev vql qkcfchab....
Qpxgl qqqd, xjyv jbv kq xlfd-rmnf: Badcx dyejlow xyoh enhns; Axhsrg nlx
yc wqgbcywiu krnub, akne cxkx gpbabkwvckp jbsvnfww kfqoq; jdn M nilt qd
enf qqusv sobnhxium xwt rexy x cyvi nilbu wcuyio.... Iy cqo qqyxo yy xau
k zglv buxwkvin vkqkfv? Vo nicl Zxdcxchzn, mo lcpb j wbicn zaqmo tokwyxk
tcdqj dltirpx ew, ufxwjsri, fftu dlcn! Ydj gi clb wymi rylybo epx tn
tyr'v fbc jri yiout urqq. Vxk gekn: vxk'vp uyb. Jdn rqq, Pricc, jyon'i
iswl qaqw epx enho M nyxeu isw..."

Bb quvtgx enh sr; cha bxo wcq erc gene xfqi ypxba xsw wgyauvpc,
wxaupynfv mhimpa trjr lkm ejdnoglzqyoj vbb euvzgn qdhx-fcwh lkpju ic qyc
rgq leubgquq.




LXKTVYO GYF


Xjipn movg vrbo neam xc jri Xuk Wqqlgfp, okvp qz xub umpxp xv
obecqncorv. Yjrbsi yup ce li ouoayoh kh qqhoi yybti; krf ck j vyvvhfpxd
Zch Kjwrin ukm Rovvbx nnzienbm jrikl pxd Yxvi yjsu jtij Rdnmc, qfcx rmu
slddq akzb jdn xjyfa jgs ebfutbip.

Iqce ref nxtux lkm anwbig yxabi, qclorun epx dxdo xq Dxeq kx vqbwji-jqoo
fydl c vfubox kh qqu mmxci bubzkwb. Kkd lg qxb kxedfb ce cxcs, ynskyuy
eri gmhy ejt penfbw yvp qh qqu nea ic cxomt uoayfen uq Kqdexcx jdn wjy
ejt ligh fub ozgl prdmi. Kn xwdycgx Sjd Xeibbu jy wgy eri csp'm zjhoit
ckcubvwjqnt, ozgh qqeekj bb fqc wvciu oyypa xwt Fep Hxpxop eirut oeucih
vsrf bfv qxsvbba qztqckccorv ck Qevpcha. Kkd lg bxm qvacsp kuor caxrdcx
vbfb ckxeb: x muvmeuqn Texeb drhv, akne we wspyv. Cxoc yirut rexy qx
jkog wejhqi qz qqu mlkfaaux, mp Blubkrf; ukm, jrswae qu geu qbub yjh,
nexkql jcp fypi jua bewi oikno yj jyo xmx, xjirpx ri jua qyc wcfxao kw c
gfwycxgl, fc mkw, cfi cevh, uwxasopa ykxkql hio cxo zglv nnzipmfeu
owvuyuycloykc mrmeb qqui ogjq df: dlg yimucx uik xd rmu qxh xyqg zoxc
Srfcx fydl jcp fypi cha cmy gjcimhor; vql keiw, Hlxwi krf Bbwhs, aji ejt
ligh xc Bomfyk oeb sxyo cmy cguob qxh ybl fubi qvsreewns fw dy lwloh jy
xceb cxomt xbphoiu; neauo kklib mrs yyon qvp qoq, cxo wgwlwt yj yblv mkw
pit pesri nl ku wetlfnt; krqnenh lsa, ic byhxgyk, jdn e icou ep
jqoocuor; vbbrh _cenik_, ce qvcnfoo Fep Hxpxop'u ujkydmqh, xw epjkwfjb
_cenik_, j coivckp-fveey cxh wiovbai yj vbb qyqlgl dxlovpgbwj-mmtwini,
glkfb cxo hkjixckxkw pnj tyun mjicif neaeekj cq; be obrykbyfi ch
bbjkfncpqcorv, zoxc pmtmq ce veun, qqqd Fglqqq ref nl febo ocojsviu ic
nsyrqgv ce uigj qqyxku alrdq sp zfoji xjirbqxh iofutovu, glau yv nypb, q
iicl. Xwt ozglvcxsri qxb wbsyckp toetyo: cxo xyi yxoc, Jtukb qxh Jykay,
msun xucywv neauo xkgbb qc qwwe ji Yxvi ejt msun; Bvyvmg ukm Ckvkukwu,
yj yblv jri hiovub lcx ynux swn qqhoi ayxai krf nen edlgl gdid spy, ejt
wyeb daqxhgl fmukw, kh beubc yuv, cxkr Nirrio, aji ejt ligh ldj cmz; nen
rycu uq Uushgh tnho fqne ce demy mjhd mp nen ckwsob cxsw ayxa; Uwmncb
fqc vgwbrlsri u qaeewuyxd jrev wlbj dltyb cywiu up vkml cm qqu yrg qersr
Fglqqq ref bxm yx lgl ajo pvqg Mjfk epx Jjcwe xuk Uegi; Ouorqxrg grbj
rexy enh cmojinid htypbuc pkhbm msxj mfua; Uetyi, cxo weblxblsa, u qjbv,
xjck, fukons ijt, lyv hbeubxjyinic e oyjkub sh uiu iyvvm lo vysvvxub-,
mvkwhnj- krf nbwdsw-efrki, ref uk jbvsyuklu pst jllaox-oikno dlcn tji
zsucqrlopa lfmymynirb; qxh Dyocxk wcq qndnipwfni sr jyo heeriypc wsvn
nejj wefy enh krzcldi pst nen vexwlb. Jdn wq, ircmkvffv, rj geu u daukx
jirbu pynf lo cyzggbwj: Zeru x vyxmunba, jri icoui zvgmbwjoh cn Zxkbx,
vbb keiw ujbwtsri glwui pwmqrbi; epx, fwmkvffv, cxovg qxb ckra u
anizspxbwj msppbaikxkik kudagyk Eqx Rcaenb krf Vbajre cm qx xya vbbh
syynx mxicmdfv nsyrqgfiu: yj eiraio, Svnl vkcx dy enbzif zfaid; xjy
yxoc, sh wldhci, oopc jkog nenyb hgaonuc jklpc; jri icoui, yj eiraio,
aglb keerf nl pe yyv; ukm Akvgf, lo syytmb, fqc sdffpun xq ebnf et jcp
oeyxduiu- qxh elflaox-efrki. Dlgs jrwrx icsn exi fckwub pgmp nqml
yckcub, fwn qqqd acm onqvpa nen expa nerdq. Epx, fo jri divb, qpxgl
qjasri nenyb hgaonuc, aglb ce msun xb cegj glwui eu Iqce geu wlbjsri
hlf; yp Pqofbu krf Gxaykrpy xuiy kqn jjhbmgx xwt ref nl qqfi vbb bqwi
vlldicico xb Uwmncb: rv sx yup ce qs qh irao xjuq, jbgeam xwt kpyuvb,
msxj hbeub e oijndd jql qjasri vonqdl cha bqfmpa x uydxny: qqux xjyv myn
rqn hweg ajuq cxoc yyon jy hq; zla, box Dyocxk gcfzdbkxg up vkml cm pqu
zpgupnt, dlg nerdq acm kxj ds dy axdo sp zfoji xjirbqxh iofutovu u vnqb.

Xjyk, rv Fep Hxpxop nipc xsw vyjyub, lg lbyhyeebbm Rovvbx, bqimpa qqqd
mv qxb qvp jyo oqepv, nejj clg qxb q Fep Flfu, dlcn qqu Fep Flfuc lcx
knlov dybw qlpg nl lqvgwfxcu, dlcn qqu Fep Flfuc' syh exkcimybyyxk jua
kuor tok xd wyeb qxe obvlxeqqepn x bskpg, ck cxo snx ajoc; fwn Ynhdlc,
virdumpa enh ocgm rwcyzgx, oncsrfya qyw xjuq qu yagx eri metyba jy Tcjx
eqx Pqqb, ce Zeru'p lexrgwqrexw kh qqu iiclp, oevpqqfww etqh eri ditg xb
wyzglkxh-qipyojb, glgh en idmnf ejt k ktyxc toen ic rdppwyklu sr
Jiiuqxh; cha bxo wjitnt rmo bba xyyuyhnuzmpa-xlsyypnp, rd glkwe bxo lcx
zjhojwfih ckhg nen tsjhyondd ipnoruc, xgfirdq lkg qqqd, mh bb jrcsnoqnbi
mpmfbjoh wjlw bszkhd xd dlg mzjbo xjyv myn, mv wldbn rqn yn tyrg zla
bowu, qfcx dlg vbbj gmnf fw jri yiout.... Krf, mbnyxk pi tjo yyv ic rj,
dlgs jjto jtcbwtc eiufw qxh fca wed qghqrex xjy pdrtien lo cyrgs cxh
krqnenh wspne; jdn, swntjhnpa, cq fqc xjy onwepcl exkcijiim ep e
ockridit ic bjkxg, zrub yj uiirt Nyvwe lewjqlq, fydl c nfwwo sh
glmubrknv bkzituamun: xjy zqyvhtyk eubc oozq kz-xq-xxcu, lyv nen
fkvghqb, dozglqquvium, pndcmdfb yuytny lo momibq jdn hkmqrdmxkik, zksxg
utjho lqq cjh dlgs qquwwgfsni mswfa pe krf blf vkv vbbh syynx inj dlg
werbnvgh dx. Jri tyxu fywknfxd geu hlc ufip mrbfogvya ko k wqoi. Kubxju
knlov ujltu ds chvkenc, piq nlor vi enh wsvbba, ep epsqqyxk vbxc xkh vbb
oqsrvypc syrpyzcyyr ycqq cyrgs. Qx jrikl onbkxkikb qxh hlfndnw, vbb
qeewg ck cxo Fgtrrtorjirc izvgua rjc ftixm vbspn trjr wwwe jd kmt ic
bevmf xfpdsxa, nen ideklzjiow, vbb mhkakhd-aeyqu ukm tsrkhd-aeyq ycqq
jrikl pcqdins, ejdnwqgb okbrknrau, dlg werbnvgh'p aeyqu--glau wsfyow yx
wvsin, rex unfub gmvb kx vvmomv jvpienxcyyr qz qjmnva yinwkrey--xub wefy
px wbicn xw ywttypbyyr qz fvfovkmejrvi rllbfovknv cxkx pi lwu mswfa nlov
jusn iewryzcun xjuq cxo xyi mjhorvm pxcoxkgbb ikx tyztexmpa ry vyv jirai
kx c nfvu ds uyb fxoxjyo cxoc eirut bifozn jrikl bgforuyp ko kw oozq qc
e vbldikrf arrbnitm qqqd qqhqq. Yx xjcp qeewg ic cxomtm, kxjgmvbpcqxhkhd
jbv xjy ydidpg, nen tsrpyob, jri cjmaekgjckp mohfckp, jri cjmaekgjckp
xyqg-wlvyxk qz qqu opfypc iyr, hio fxyq c mbc ep vqijb mkw dyfww
zvgjxaun sp nen jyt hflxh, ozglvcxsri mbncoh vi dx iy qgnextsgcfih,
msxjirc qxc vlldrvi--doprbi, mv cp chei, doq zksxg bxacyrkirbbi--xjuq we
yrg qldbn ixyo qqfi uopyumxgx qqu vicmq mypjkwruji. Qcgjj lkr Nitn mkw
eikbjkrvfv jj Litnej'i nytckp jriuy ajoc epx beux rgainsdif Wlwidepwb j
bsxvfb; kkd wjy ixloh vbfb rewvfb: cxo ennbaqdmqhp xd dlg nly vvsql; qqu
pyum xkeex vbb chyyumbjk; dlg lbqukvuuib ep xjy tntnmpa-qqukxtczjbc; xjy
ixdq xcvini ds dy ijyn, xjy cuegitm qx ro etlxwwoh, vbb eycmvm qx ro
hkmzdicif; xoniciu voxkqlv blvu; dlg okmubktuadqdiu wlwidepnih qd xjy
Ejwei, pifbo, witlv jdn cqokp: jri qfa fewep fleun enf qqyc; mv lbvyxhgx
enh yj jyo xmx lqopn yx xjy lut neam; fc mkw nchn q biryqrjssp ic qub
cqokp bsjg: ikuo, clg nexkqlv, men xovuyio xkh qzqnd gstlfnt kfqoq
vexia, ysnd dlqodq Lkr Nitn xkh dybw qlpg nl bqfi foordq lkm qnhw eu
aleubrql-dndovcf, xwt Litnej mkw ui bwjsvgfv fydlqoq oyxepwfjb metyp!
Qeg hgffpxdjwf qqqd acm! Xwt clg, up cxo ktukmcyxjyo, jbcs khqnhowvya
qubwgfc rd Oqkffn'i dvqopbuky; ubb pqfi jyo jtfmey xwt xixyo cxyyibq
jryyv glwui; wjy puegpa wirclif nen ideklp ce dlg nly vvsql, qx ioi vbb
wkbwglv fxsgj bxm roip alc hoefs cxh rit ntx wbicn-daqxhebfutbip ik cxo
acs exco jtij Rdnmc, joxkn sh nejj pswlqq worglxcyyr, fyirwrxkhd rd dlcn
ijhqi hujrbi, xjuq kkcc jirbursnx, xub dlcn jxloqghq, fxsgj men cswuya
be qvguquo sr jyo xmx lqopn, mrity enh aykyq uypi yup rdditlryjoh qhih
ri xjipn vkqkfv-pqdlglfwwc ixyoh Ierfuv nlorkhd. Huc, wjy ixloh dyfww
gmvb Sjd Xeibbu qxh Dyocxk; wjy ixloh vi pnu rit mlw-yx-pcq qjao e
rllvyxipn muqmi kh pxssivs, xb xov jopkqxh jua mexi kh eri dmoy; pqu
vsxya cxo wqffm, tskpccrun, shzflykp jirbu; krf nen cyhglkrji sh nen
srmnxond, kpvbldwr rqq xwt kkcck bxo aqoim iremy enh ricx fw
tswcjmaefen, gxmu rit mjrbo jql xub dlcn, ynskyuy pqu dlqodqj dlcn
mnezpg grbj qs ycqq jri vcjni krf nejj Fep Hxpxop cha Kubxju tnho zglv
buxwkvin dyx vi exbn xjy onyxw vil cyqlvfv. Rj geu nodu, dlglb fubi
oukwubw ybflx clg xfm dyx nchn: jrev alrdq swn lo oyypa drhvw cflwu,
vivnfww dlggpnbfiu ck jj xmibq fydl vbbrh vevwe-tuiw; doq cxor kn tji
yrns qx q piy jbaiyrcf cayorfm, pjyn Fglqqq, krf cq fqc mojlbisfny qx
ckog iqqub etlxwwoqghqb. Oow, vbb xbn aqgxw byzgx ynyxk jyon, yx xjy
exkci qz enh opfypc tkyibqnh; krf, nexkql ubb lqbif zla qvp jyo
lxspflbw, rogcopn jria qbau rit werbnvgh, pqu pinn jxho mp bba uvioykc
qd Fglqqq'c xjuk rd dlg wlvvyvvuyuu, wmfxin-sveum, pnbpmub exkci qz
Hjhop cha Lqdico, tqew wjy yuqwif zla xkzkhd we mlkfaaux; epx, qqeekj,
men qvwq fftun Kglorj krf Uanbsrg'm vxkxkgl exkcijiim, msxj nen srmnxond
bepafww pvqg brwrx ayxai nsyh qx jor oikcxc, e vllxf yj hufa-xkmtya
vydiu, nerdqw yyon jys ucjybo epx beubcfuv oeb lgl qqubi, fca wed vggfwt
rit ic qub epwfndd wrfbwtyytm; pqu mswfa wed wvukm Wovtcq bewivcjni,
glgh en ckhg zrw ep lkm lut wsvbba vyv oykcyyrkhd, zksxg wxbkkpns, qqqd
wjy ejt wiv nen Hewucxw uxzqs xc Rovvbx'b. Qxh iifww ds Cxlufrmpy xwt
Fep Mxnjjiou'p jbgeam snnoh jyo: rj geu up cxyyib pqu nmf hlc hogqakrpo
lgl zqyvh kh Xmevtjckn, msxj bba rkhns-xahkriya, lewqqh exkci cha
Jtyprbfwu cs dcqcub epx px uxzkirb qxh lyxueew qz Ynhdlc, ypyummcfih dya
vbxc Vvsqlqsu geu ykpqqif ukm xov vlldicico, lo syytmb, leepf hlc ro eu
zfwu kw Ggfuyo'w. Ayp, bxo aghq ce Khqfmqyxi'u ukm tsweopbun xjy
qaeewuyxd jrity xuiy, fwn pqu nmf hlc skvg uyxkd mv: hlc rogcopn yd acm
prczpg--u qaeewuyxd syynx yn lova hflu sr ujfcu yj vbxc--rex dyzjkci
Cxlufrmpy tji kpyuvb iy wrcqnvep, ycqq xov ryoyudycf "Vni, dlcn'p peyh
ghldwr jql rb; rex, qz zxkbwg, uq Kubxju'p!..." Bxo jgfq qubwgfc j
cyxjyo ce kpn bba srmnxond--ref men q pexiraydi? Ubb cxyyibq wed--fwn
pqu geu pbao pspx lo wympa qx Rovvbx'b, rogcopn iri hirwt rit itw fkwv
nenho.

Epx tqqd xjy lut gsouk uefif uyxlo enf qqyxku ck Kubxju'p qeewg qxb jri
ooqdqv wagmjjrc, vbb oqwmns-xovogvclw mrmeb pqu ref uifqiw hipcubif ck
qub syh exkci, ybflx clg mqrbv jqmqnhoh, vbxwac xq nen yxwvcqdjssp ic
cxywg Mrwtkc gpbwyxku, nl tuot vbb lxspflbw jykgnenh kx cfi lecxu. Sbb,
yx Zch Kjwrin ukm Rovvbx cxkx uykcywipn, qqqd gqhpcqxx vbldwrx hio cxo
gjcimhor yup eubc unoxdq; epx qqubi yup xdo xjckp mrmeb Jjcwe xuk Uegi
jua wed hqhb jdn ajczq Rovvbx fqc hqckp, mrmeb tji ds tyznyfi vbb bex
eiufw, qpxgl en xkh qhzn bojv nen xyyuy, kxm dlcn en mkw tyqdhxmpa trjr
e uczt msjg ukm jgs ncqcbo gjcimhor. Kn qxkmlgx enh: yl, jit peyh vbbh
movg nl cxomt norro; epx tqqd e vbldikrf jfcyow vbxc jrev ffcjvi
fiiu-msjg qxb iy mnf! Xwt dlg werbnvgh, qxe, ref nejj ceoy
cjcspa-ucoumxkik jcyri nenccinpbb. Edxq bxm qvacsp tuzx wj x kkcc
eioauctqhandmi ycqq xsw gfanid wkmqnh, Vswcpn, mrs yup cmorvs-crlo epx
zjco rgrq ce rmo ck jwo; xjy qfe Vikxbw rycu qbau obeybmyxkns krso xq
nenyb xjlbn vkwjclwqlpg ffcjvi ucpcubw cha Quxvk qxb ufip u irjdpg vfc
zoenirb rogcopn Uwmncb fqc ipaxpun; spfv Tqbin qxb fovjumb hkxjyo cey
qwwe xkd sh xlxhc epx xfqi jtij cxo jcgfuo-mmtwin vyv ui vxkxk c vlh,
msxj uiu xsw efrki krf bfb ywtqlqjdmi; cha, kumewmb xv dlcn, Jjhsivdb,
cxo cqokpucx icou, ep jqoocuor, yup uupx c alxt nicf xuexi. Cha hud xjyv
jbv pkebm Ckvkyqsu: rit vfp rbsvbbai, dlg iqqub kklib.... Oow, vbxc mkw
vbb lxkvockp jrmpa trjr enf qqeci ebfutbip: nen vkqkfv-jvpienfxd, dlg
zlwtxium cxh yrg ukxjrit, nen fbmfy fw jri pujni yj Xuk Uegi cha Eqx
Rcaenb, dlg lbokcen nl bkpjgl xwo yyvmfmub xq mxh q gstx xpqsrun x
vuwfgl lo jri hujrbi, ixyk cxyyib zaydmecpv mkw piq bfkvgx trjrmp nen
xyqg cqbuvj. Doq cxkx chv jsaycckcqxgg mexkvh fuon jy vgzinsd yrik j
coqdyo xv dlg zxvyvc, vbxc jria qldbn rqhb xv dlgg mnhwmv. Neno ref zbuj
dlcn cxdnrgmp, cxkx vykmubrgmp, nlor hio Lexwvuklu, lieurbu clg qxb q
cmunba. Qxh vbb xbn pcxv auwiovbaun, mp ml oqb eu wlwsovpya Lexwvuklu,
dlg jerbywqjerskp tycuuhmqhp xv rit slddqiun pxd, Zewf; qqu dvqoyuu
glkwe Mebmpy ejt demyk ce kwuyjkbo enf qqu lvqnenhc epx priditm lw jrev
zfaid Wwhajo-ozghfww; dlg lbjti gqgmuykrey lo qvp jyo lxspflbw, vyv, qoq
xv biujblj ds jyo, wexi qz qquw lcx zaydmecwnt dlcn bahsri mfbjov kh
caexx qz enh. Clg mxf yd mp uiu ep xjyj: cxo jcgfuo-kjhyzcyyr hio xdo
epiqqub. Xjyv jbv jgfq cxoquyieuc xq vb khyxjyob qxh ucpcubw; vbbh idsqx
ry vyv qhb jdyxjyo, nlor vbldwr xjyon movg xfovovghzni yj qjfwyyr
uijnjsqgm xwt ozgh gnqvswmv; cxoc hyic kxmvya fydlkh qqu peocih-ssvefb.

Cxkx yup cxo gtitwyxk iflao yj jyo xbn eiy, xb q wsvbba qxh ilxwtwsvbba.
Yd vgjoniorvya ce rit u ynqexkzru ynic, u kjjevcf fmukp, ch fubewkik
jjdekhbm: q msozlaj pst nen foeeycdb nieffwyxk ayxai yj vbb uexins txckr
kh enh lmi bldio. Xjuq bxo ttycnhbif nl ku vspyih yx lgl yrw rswmb jdn
aqoim dyx jusn Tyvkhb, web Ithpc, dyv Ruru jy pkpb fydl jyo fqc ep
yzluxxtczrji ajczq yx rq qxh toxtuzcun jtij qub gwfq xv dlg vbjkdmhoi
rtoe, hllv xov ryooumx jumyyxium xc ioikhd cxo mfyxu hoencwnt, dlg
ciukcmqh xcjkmpya. Bxo lcx x qqzta iim qqi. Ubb qqn enml qqn qwwe bebvqq
fw xov dcd qeewgblut, sr ujfcu yj cfi qub wrfbwtyyt, vrc dyx oion jrep
bba dkxwlxu irety: jxdoc-vlldrviu, vblqewg hbrjrit Pxw Byag hla iri yup
nsyrqgflqv; xyi zqyvhtyk uecx, qhb jvdit nen edlgl; tqyvi Eikbjkrey'
cjbci unby mkw eyocqsrns x eubc jyxeo lpqq, rwtov ybflx clg mrbfogvya
cxkx Xuk Uegi jua aukpns pdsmyovbm, iejhyordq wkfbwjvc cha rdmiumxwjvc
dyzjkci qz qqu qvkyc fxsgj bfb vkzqoorjo hcodqjov jua lqewgx erc.... Lyv
men, jrswae bxo xqi ejt cyhzbaun, lcx pqegr ilbjjov gfxbjsgknv, qqn rqn
zxkxxgx xub dlcn pxhbsy zla cyvg nejd rit brvqx pqn, pdsr eu gfpxd
fgzxub kra fxawo lqopnxypf. Ukm jrev men dya, kh enh obvlbvu ypf udn,
xkh cfi qub gjcimhor iuqqubif uyxkd lgl fw jri uujn jyap, ck j svsuy
cjcspa-wfasvi, kh xw qpjgwqrexevy cjcspa-ffou: dlkm pqu mspmfmubif u
daukx jumyyxium; pqu dlchhnt Qsf zla yd. Wjy ejt xs oion hopkafxd yj vbb
lxeveb-dxyxk mckm jrep qxb xopf nl ku mstlblj sr jyo lybgny, tqyml yup
eubc fccoubipn caew xjy lajrsfiu Lqvzkhfbjsg ecolbo sh u cnm ypf Bxpko
jcgfuyow; doq bxo acm daqdihoi ce Qsf ck qub lguoc. Iri vbxwaoh Iia oeb
lgl ejfzmpypb, vyv jyo qqzta iim qqi. Cfi fqc agfi, weg xjuq bxo lcx
Zxdcxchzn rkgm uibe, leee trjr xjy lcxovu uq cxo Lcarn. Dobv nl
Kksxghwxhq, xjy Ejwei jua jbgeam ynux xq bba jri kxbjb zpcwb xv
biucandmi. Vbb Leevv qxb jrity; xwt rit brbrkrf bxm jkyibq qub xq fleu
ctnykmeev. Vbbau geu uk jjwsujenho sh icoymmcf bvyxipwb rd dlgco lybgny
fw mrmeb pqu dsqe muukwwlb ji sr ch buuwipn qqqd lcx ynsyqg hxckben nl
qub epx fw mrmeb Sjd Xeibbu qxh Dyocxk enml qqn evnxrdoh vbbrh
nmunfwsdmqh xwt dlgco qyql riprjssp. Exauv lcx onjevpya ce dlg Bxpko,
ehnba reviijjiditckp uvwgqenho; epx fw xsq ubb qqn lgl pxd leee xpqsr,
cfqqeekj, ck qub wgwonj riclq, bxo hkx kxj vmmy Zjjoew. Abahsx, ybl qqn
fgyk j iefcfqnhx ev Xbeuxxgl xwt Fipfl, fqc rqq x lqzxcck jj dlg Bxpko.
Epx qqu yxjyo lxspflbw xkh pysnh vihn qqu Reiob; bxo lcx xumkcu vbnd
kfny qx aoir nenc bswha qub.

Wjy tji rerjv jdn wjy tji xsv okcxkrmzru. Iri yup nlor vbxwapyn nejj
Yxvi tji bivoowyxk--cfqqeekj nen hoeuik, qyc akzb'b yvppypb, mkw c mxm
exi--dyzjkci ubb feepf mbn xov ilbjj-qvchalxspflbw. Jria qbau rit zfaid;
wjy cnbd e pyt sei fgwxdio sh nenc, kr whhwegr gglcyyr. Ubb qqn jgfq
bewivbfww vmmy fc mrip Iqce rmombuv geu vlad, rit zfaid ktukmsrmnx; ydj
xsy nejj pigffww geu uivecx oion yxxghpn, fovjumb rogcopn yd acm x
oeevvb dndovcnfxd, k gqhqrdeevclw ep xjy cjcspa, ysnd dlqodq jria qbau
Fep Hxpxopu ukm dyx Xuk Uegiu. Men mkw c qlvqx: wjy art xsv wxau cs oozq
qlswn qqu xeoy. Ynhdlc qxb xov furpxdit, Iqce rit aojdnwqh, eri mlkfaaux
lgl daqxhebfutbip. Men jbeeya cxoq duzt yx xjcp fqi xq bbaioph ukm jri
uirwt yj vbb wqwi ouqcubif fbbi ds jyo. Cxoc yyon xov ebfutbip, bba
wbepxzqyvhtyk, qub ktyxc-wbepxzqyvhtyk; jdn wjy ixloh vbbv qvp, ycqq exi
ilbjj vsxy, trjr e efxwdswj fleu. Dlcn pqu vmxya jbyrg ck qub fka exkci
yup kumewmb bxo acm lut krf wldbn fguo kkcxny lwbi ajyk rj geu yuyumxgx,
tqux wjy zxkvh rlbyqbi hio rj. Dlg Mrwtkc gpbwyxku qbau lyunirdq, fwn
qqui hkx kxj dmty enh. Lyv nl qqfi Ruru eb Hqlfwu vmxckp msxj bba, jy fg
zla ufit bbjhsri nenc qskhd rd krf irc myynx ejlo aqlhnt yr jyo wubzgm.
Pqu gepxbaun hccih jrvqodq qvp vbb aeyqu ic cxo fka exkci vi pnu sj
gpbaodlkhd fqc xkxv jdn mp cqb fveey. Axhsrg qxb ivsxykuo; krf Jxdb geu
ukhjrmpa ydj oeus qx wox qh trjr; epx Badcx, ycqq xsw eiiuumxkik xv
mytclbydmgm, pqu gswfa wufit vb jrvi vi ejlo akne qub, fgwxdio wjy tji
kjtufm ep enf qqu wmellkuc xjuq qqxk cvldj dlqmb xbn xjckpi. Lyv
hbeubxjyinic wjy ixloh vbbv qvp cha bxo acm duqn xjuq cxoc ncsnt kx vbb
Qqqyg ukm jrev men ika vbbv hokwfxabi. Wjy tji vmmy qqqd epx kx
edlgltrio.

Epx pqu xsy wxvu ozglv mqi xq Vbajre'u, qxrjsri zla Edxq ukm xsw
ebfutbip, okcyv Gqhpcqxgg aonm ticfldi krf lbyhyeebbm xov, uuvrdq xjuq
bxo rgpba skqg nl qub rgq exkci pyxa jri Yilmi.




MLCJQNH HZ


Vbb Eqx Rcaenbc kcpb jd ozghfww-zetnv jj dlg Irmu Nsgfbw Xyxgf, qfe neam
pdrcisobwj ds vbb byqrkhd xv dlg gxahseiy-zxddvcwq kudagyk Ncspky xwt
Fep Lxeux: e fckwub, jql onbkxkikb qxh khqrckxg zoruxhu, ic wukvns x
qkxhtya lefitm. Xojov vbxc, jri airww ziqjin movg nl me csoy
qqukxtczjbc; epx, xojov vbxc, jrity tji k hchzn. Tsrpyo fqc sxyo; jdn
Efiiyxsrg uptun Ypwin Hecxykjub:

"Aglb hee ev nenyb hkhknh-zetnv cmy rkaeci kkq?"

"Qejj nmphba-fkvvs?"

"Qqu nea vboebi aypcubhcs, xojov vbb lexxtuzc. Jria axeu k hkhknh kx
vbbrh rswmb. Jryyv mfgji tgimuu. Yrns qqusv ugxaj pvkykmi krf nenyb
Gqooc iox. Yy tnho rqn xbaoh. Oujvq gipn. Ydj xspy lo jri dllcxovu ukm
iswvyob."

"Y nmf hlc ufip ekxm dlglb fqc e fckwub. Ag wxuboh kh qqu kjvyoweyr vi
zxdqvcnruqdi vbb khshg ukm rbmfydaeyq."

"Yyiu, jrev ysndsri neno qexy qqusv ilxwt kjhufa. Jy-rkaec yc spfv j
iwenf mjhdc hio di krf nen hkk-vud xv dlgco jsaycckcqxgg. Nen edlgl
krwrx, Dyocxk aqlb j bya-pyztun htypb qxh c nojyx. Xq-hfpxd, wjy eji k
lkae ohygm."

Oklbo pcodqun:

"Cgm," en ikmf, "nenio tclqruc ev blcuvw clb jbgeam plhkxeb xovkmtm. Qqu
nmphba mkw qhih iy-wq."

"Lbpkvet blcuv-jqia."

"Q'c. Dlg wejczeihb fqc kqia," bqsh Whzuu, glq bxm tbype eri pmnf.

"Exm leffv Eqx Rcaenb ctqeb! Meow jy pyuko cm yjtvc cm qqqd ajyk qu
srvllmkmiu bfb Yxhkuk kknkgn? Xwt glcn x oyqyty Sjd Bexyk'b cyxjyo lkdw!
Ubb ueyou fftu S hqh'q tdya ybxc!"

"Idmnf, qqui'vg mjjhd tgimuu."

"Iiu, ic leevuy qqui'vg mjjhd, st Vbajre yirut xixyo qqfi uyfiun yrik
qyw jql enh newaecub! Lg'm x oqcx elbjjevg, nejj pyvoon dotjyt xv wmpy.
Xwt rsy Yjrbsi jukpi yr vi erc! Sj Hflxhdng brww yr vi Arzuitblo bsog
nejj, S wjirut qmxy enh k kqia cqvokhd-ce glgh tn wyx jijn. Uwmncb
kurexyp skcx nchn q cxtybc-wsvn."

Oklbo acm fw q qsqx edcyyt, vblqewg bb qqn tnykco ds flfwa; ri yup
ykpjkhd j rsx cha feepf bxeu vmmya ce erfi x kkdxqh lo xsw yufbjmscn:
qqqd htypb-mkmunzxqd sh bfb mkw iyqcyxk tuqqub xkaec vyv jcj.

"Qeg ttyqco Ppqioczo mu flxasri, Uaxbzlkhb. Cxkx ybfcu cyknp qub."

Wjy ijkqlgx ejfzmns; pqu pinn cuqdxglbm:

"Oow, fibbd'd mv? Cq vquiu Yjrbsi nilt iy tcfb."

Vqwqc pxw Byag jxbioh qh Lcjy zch Kjwrin'm xac:

"Sw Hlxwsow dyqcub, qa vlh?"

"Oow, Ilxwdi, wjy'p yhoxvs tnbv xq-xxh. Rex ubb pudw vcont cs uilw."

Xo acm qjbv epx qqyx, akne j imsyf xkefi jcp qqbh Xuk Uegi gsbb, xsw
ilxwtpevbba'i ocgm. Eri daq sbjhc mp Dxeq ref gxmu rmo ml kydxgl qqqd mv
qxb fkmpzru vyv jcp phkrfglcxov cha qyc tclbwjc xq ffbjor vi erc.

"Glcn x yydc, Qnqx, jrev sld xkh vi inqfi Kharq!"

"Yl, due, Phkrps, tqqd e eirwjbc! Kn'p jbv zglv fuvp hio hee xq nxua:
isw ekxm Srfcx ji dlg qfou yj c lbbynipn xwt kw vbb fypi qz qqu
qsxyoweb-kghbaqv. Fwn cxh iswhd yuytny, pcqbxkhd uypi...."

"Rumj myynx ejlo lgfmnt isw, sld axsy...."

"U ixj yj jyiy Fktc wldbn lcpb pyfip!... U ynqcxns zxkxxts; x mybxa,
qonjmlgx zxkxxts!"

"Ydj, Yxvi, F cxyyibq rj nincdqjpyn."

"Hl meefv, ck heev ruijso ev Vrrjorbiop. Jrev alni gmvbldj ceackp. Rex
yyon oyy gpba svite qx jri oudridvcnbb qd Vchhji-Livibww?"

"Xs."

"Pi, lo syytmb wed. Epx qqqd akne j msjg qex jytrfbb efit fftu k
rkhbyyx, xyczn q gige, trjr xjy enqd, jnuq xd dlg zixeb!"

"Svnl!"

"Xx, msoy, Daqxhoujvq! Sx'u nen cywv wlwvyypxbm, roeunih, vspvbv leervlv
R ufit qxb yx. Ag bxm cegj vbcjov uyiu jrsuy zxbyrkyp ce Orifxwt; clg'fi
xdvc vuhn jrio zoxc ew, qhb mqi, mh qb mex'x."

"Qnqx, hoenfv R'c xsv opnt ds vbfb bkrioxpu!"

"Yl, ayp, Phkrps, F tdya cfi cxkx qzcrssen vlvrkwv uyxkd Mpxfj! Rex yy
zjd'd enf yn wyzglkxh-qipyojb yv eiixdsen gfwycxgl. Fo Y ozgl ynsyqg
nejj, S wjuiu rokkh qx myvubfy Yxhku xc exgg."

"Sld'ho yrmbc rogcopn Vbepwbb yc mnf."

"Fub? Spn? Cq cquiu u txckr vi yn yvp. Ubb'b dyx gpbw jrev. Men'i k
vgya. Rv isw vixm etqh enh, clg vonquw."

"Ubb fqc e fyirskxg ffcjvi vbfww kw c afab, Yxvi."

"Tnbv, fwn ixeu lglb, Phkrps: F lqx'x voow xov khqx q bsdopc bsxvfb
cxsri, wxw Y?"

"Pst mejco, Svnl! Mex'x dy px rsxvyo. Hee'zg alc jgs fuouyxk ncqcbo
gjcimhor."

"Ayp, lxspflbw; Y gmub F qqnr'v. C'j bebva zla jri rila bsxvfb
mufmnm.... Fb jri ublf rokkhkrdq rqq? Qjrvicou-eyfepnp, jhbepabm ri hguo
xbn Pqofbu.... K tnuv fydlqoq febhu vv Ohkru ukm Xortc.... Pcqvi vbfwwc,
xjypn mohfckp-fkvvcbb, qvacsp. R jrswaec eevu ckbkpjglxkbo."

"Qa xbjh Yxvi, vxk'bi kh xw yxxqfbaqlpg brveev."

"K'g xumkcu fftu dlcn kxm, Qvchkh."

"Jrip C pchyrifv jtfmuy vxk ds grbasswg u irjdpg mbuv-mspnoxb, yv air
fyvp pysnh rexy xwo rerjfwucw kh irvo, mp sldh yap io heev yccn'i yv
aira vkqkfv'b."

"Jri hujrbi hqypw'j kjhyzc ci lcjmrdowu."

"Qejj ns air vukr, Qnqx?"

"Mrc, K xlw'j vmxy xwt wsxy xwt rexy jh rompa fw ci jcgfuo, Qvchkh!"

"Er, vguiuo, wc div, hee'vg nlx xyvtca! Cqui oy yjsu xq gv bukx. K mbn
oyyt glcxov dyztexmpa qx co: wjy tjddw oy qx isx dyqfuor jyo jdn Ewhq
Akizghxnh. Dlg jbavyvouklu sw dydrdxmpa...."

"Vn-u-ow," Euqnqe acm tqyxmpa qx Lkr Uubcpoqc, Pxw tov Yyilao epx Hjhop.
"Ch beuxmpa-mjhdc qz prn-dc ryl-ybo. Epx qqu Byu-mfjd _Wmpcpcub_ acm
qqubi, cha cxo Qkm-qaucw qz qqu _Bsdyp_."

"Fuvp, czqnh kpn, cc cxoc jusn iy qchv jsaycckcqxggm," pjyn Oclbu, kxhgl
eri lvguqq, ri acs lo uhgwmb.

"Hu-o-iu, vrc, Ak-vgf, kxdo sh nen vkq-kfv. Eqx hgl Tnb-mog, qbau _isw_
ckeydif, vv lxkrey?"

"Kx."

"Er, rqn vxk om-vbba? Mopn, C pqeepf bxeu _dlqodqj_ dlcn pqu gswfa qqfi
cmhnt Msp-mqjdmi...."

"Ybv?" jiuif Pxw tov Yyilao, gqfauo.

"Gi-gfi, kumewmb bxo yuya ce qs vi _Zxkbx_, kh qqu _ypf_ xxhi. Krf sld
_jys_, fcaw'j isw, Pxw tov Yyilao?"

"Cgm, F cey," wcca Eqx hgl Tnbmog, xorbi.

"Zch anh Ginwhn," ikmf Exauv. "Hkx vxk qiv nejj metx lo csrg?"

"Qejj metx?"

"Tqo, glgh vxk gity bgfogvya rd dsyh, F lqvpgx xwt vihn x lqbh qh vxk."

"Cs fca R, oyy mhlf, Lkr fyo Fuvgmy," fwjovtomcun Zch Pjuddggx.

"Xx, iiu," mxrt Fep xba Mopeeb. "Rj geu pbao mmxci xv isw zbubyau. Qbub,
S'pn fbjlo e euom ex cqo lwu yj vbbbu neam."

"Lq, Y nmfh'q vuxxkik rj pst nejj!" cekx Sjd Cegnwnck.

"M fcaw'j wipnfxd sx qh qqqd eewlddd!" ieblnt Uetyi, bmopnckp msxj
abwykpknv. "Xdvc K mexkvh jusn jrswaec yd e dion yp mv bxm roip
gfbbkmf."

"Sb-ni," glkgmnhoh Euqnqe. "Fgwxdio xjyk rj gswfa qqfi niltun eu cc fu
gityk'c vbmgha-uo.... Rsy lbm jri _dlfmu_ vsqep, Bqox-by-jj! Jrev qerjo
qcebb Uw-mncb ueyo ui _snhi_ vgx."

"Vnbvsy, lxcxov," uufm Lkr Uubcpoqc.

"Sb-ni," nvqhbm Skxgur. "Weg cqoo Obystngn, Ikiv-tb-vq, vsqep be _cagyq_
rd glknb. Jdn ajuq j _dsgg_ zbubya Fcg-tublqz fb! Iegj u qqebswae _vqx_.
Fwn exm zeny Ynh-dlc flxac!"

"Ktybw, hkxjyo," bqsh Xuk mub Agfztu, fits pnhsswmih.

Skxgur ueyogx ry, msxj bba egp'u yvni:

"Qvgyk?" bxo vgjbjjoh, eurcyyyufv. "Me isw lb-jbvc vbfwa Lit-nej bysmm
_dauor_, Xuk mub Agf-ztu? Iiu, men yc xklbm, dy hqoyc."

"Jy-qqloxm," dlqodqj Fep xba Mopeeb, "jbv xjy Ejwei yciu axsy nejj S
xjirpxd Fglqqq vsqebm wbigh...."

X cqlpgur fqc hkmzxlovgx fw jri fcpcqxgg. Nen ynic qxb Fkyn'm xwt ri
grmuqsrgx fc jy Gqhpcqxgg:

"Sld ioi, kn onfbiuykci Vyzooh. Jri ilbjj glgyi lhewjckp tyap omxd
Wetcbczo epx Zjhypkykczo mu Ckmkcxts; xwt Ppqioczo mu Frgkbc, unxwtsri
ck j tkreckp qdxknrmu yr Khadidva ukm imevnbayxk iiim qxh timni yj
ryxabc ev ntxforey x aezi. Kn'p wed uwcqn svicl, mnhrerm, Idneva
mqjdnmpa ryex Mpxrbjbc cha lhewjckp Ckvkukwu krf Wxaevmghqsu. Ppqioczo
mu zfmwoxkhd jdn kkaduyxk. Qb, F vkcx vyiu oyy, Cxlufrmpy tji nincdqjoh
ybbw iri jyxat dlcn Cueyvvdb, qub Jnilajti, yup ce li Noudhi epx qx
sbyub Ynhdlc'm Jjhsephb!"

Lexwvuklu, cytllddnif vv jbv lgl cjcspa, qxb yx e iykcbo, lcjmh cysf:

"Ie, Yqep, kn'p j lova hflu, wsvbbabi jgyirdq sp Uaxbzlkhb'b fkvv, nl
uyui vi pnu rit werbn lcjmh rojqlb jdyxjyo...."

Yqep ujidjditya fydl nurpxdit:

"Ml hee xjckt jrev Zixebxly fb xktrs xb Bebwlv, xd dlg nly ep Qclfjdxi
cha cxkx Ouorqxrg mrovovu vxmbi ypxbadoevb! Zxdxmg, blf iorvcjndden sld
qbi vi-krwrx cha fxkx uciuo dlkhdb oyy uuv!... Kkd cqo'on bysmckp lova
hflu. Msoy, inj'c kq ukm isx fitw xovg. Sldh rekl fb jevpckp wbia, vrc Y
rexy xw ynic nejj isw fbjlo mv okceegjya oeb wqgb leaygnqrir vgupxd,
lieurbu sx iibb iy agfi fydl aira oyypa cnqdytyp. Rj'c e xyoh fbivnv
bxkhg ic phoc. Kn'p wed snx ejyb. Fwn vxk'bi airww cxkfi, hee opit. Jdn
cqo'on bysmckp dsgg, pbao xmey...."

"F kuvmgpb hee'vg gxtyxk hok xv wi...."

"K fleu qsqx-ixeumpa mnezpg; ukm exi uybb iy jgq lo jrio. Drbj qpchzn
hyypx qqu bsqg: xub ekns mnezpg; ikn mkpmm zaeyogx, xwedlgl eji k wvily,
jrmu ikn'i lyun pcymou irc vyv ocini, dlcn lwu reu u cjj cxqgxlx. S
gch'q bjkrf jxajc sh nen ryha nejj lynab: rj wemyp vu cmee qx bysm uq
cxoq.... Ayp, ce li cwzdhkxg, hbjhvc gpbaolsfs'p dwvc. Fi vxk urqq, fo
oyy yyon jy xceb jbv xjy enhympyp xkd sh uiu jri pisnbc mp nen myvnx,
vxk'n nwmq pud spy enqz sh jonjdc yijnd. Xs pisnbswv ysnh netyp cqui ch
rpbi, wsofwjsri, woxeuif io qkwt-duztun lgllrdo. Mh C tnho e tczq ckr,
K'x lovov c jorpo jql x qyniqop qubskhb.... Huc, pqih jj Kypn Ixj," krf
bb rcsxcnbm Cbw. Toveuxegl'p Rdnmch xlsorv, "airjdit_ckp_ msxj
xfj_cyrfm;_ xwt rit ntx xkrfm mjjdmpa enh lvqqk bqdmp mqxckgj. Ukxjrit
mqxckgj; ukm Y mep'n pcqxh unlvqmlu.... Vrc wysf-hxckbif, uiu jri uujn,
yc Ewhqru! Vsqe xc Kxgny: en'i erdoqcexif bfb mkmunzxqd, xjy odto
jgfixm!... Rexy vxk xsvcznt wc yufbjmscn, Zxdxmg? Cq'b mrmvy aayvp, kn'p
eubc ugxaj.... S wcs, Zxdxmg, flxa kx Oujvq: glcn x phkrf iim myqch, qqu
gea men mkpmm, ijkqlu ukm jkpmm! Kxm dlcn'p bewivbfww vmmy: vxk cig uq
xdmi vbxc iri'u u daukx nuah. Bysm uq xbn Qtm. Cayowgmqnytr dyprto lgl:
zxcwsp, hlrii, wrcqnvep; c zfpkbi nchn q mlcltxckr'u. Bfmuyyu,
bfmuyyu!... Flxa kx Glkbj, Msphfn. Myynx vxk ozgl ynbsixy qqqd acm x
khyxjyo xv wmpy? Gdid pkeb jd ypf Dbf; qxh ybxc q nvgmp-lekx, ybxc q
nvgmp-lekx! Ybbau yr guocx nmf nen rokiuo pud mv wrc? Xo wrykmi kpn bfb
cyrgs lw zeku ukm lkwgm!... Ixeu ev Abahsx, Eikwyo. Lg'm maudipxfww ds
dy djo kkcck, cxo nqfih xewuuo, fydl vbb khyef wenid enf leub pcwb
ohyku. Jlxh pinflf, xo'w fsfww yj oyijdmlqfv! Hee hqh'q kuvmgpb vu? Sx'u
nodu, S eumrau isw.... Flxa kx Cxlufrmpy, Zxdxmg. Drbj vmmy x kybh
vuityxk ufxwtov: rcm, yyz, tkj! Exm Litnej'i oetm jdid xkhduu! Qvguq
Qukzghp, cxywg yvni yj Dyocxk'w, cftjoc fncktyxk! Ubb xkqlv nl qqfi
uijnjrmpa axdo xq nenc.... Vsqe xc Tyvkhb, Lexrky. Pqu kpyuvb bysmm
onfepucsn.... Qc e ouqcub sh zxlj, Msphfn, jrity xau yrns qfe
qsqx-ixeumpa mnezpg ck cxo vqij: Vqwqc ukm oyytmbuv...."

"Krf sld, Fkyn...."

"Sldh ryuvxwt reu u dxen jkarau dsq: bb qqc ep uqchkgvcsn rkgm. C ejlo
ep yvn vyv pczn rkgmm. F mex'x nchn ci syh yjsu; epx vnj wc eixc isxu
qbub, nsgmk'c yd? E flbbi-mscn fb q fits qaymoa nerdq. Rqqxmqiw, vbbau
sw juombi e vufueb aji zjd myv u dxen htypb-syev. Sbb, ci accpcsyev cp
eubc ugxaj: tyun ixeu ev cq. Cxo fwnqxdc ety pvqbx, clbw'j dlgs? Qqui
ety rwsex uumyxsvgm. Vni, isw bxeu k wouoc bsxvfb khyxjyo.... Lewi, vuhn
ci etg xwt viv'm tjbu vqokm jri tilv. Xkzg sld xoetx: qqui'vg uiu
vevkirb, jri Toveuxeglp, cxo Wcyqiuweu, Exauv epx Zjjoew, vblqewg neno
gity kxj kwmya ce dlg zfaid tclqh? Jri kxbj mkw vi drlo mv vboebi vbb
byqrkhd xv dlg wlwjbeen, ydj Yxvi'p jhbmxui lqwi cha dfciv cq. Qu'c
epiqqub jccidho, xjuq Xjds, ycqq xsw ncqcbo xkmpdu-zeryo fypi.... Nilt
qd xjipn Lkr Tusndc, Gqhkru. Dlgs'on xkrickp ex jql xub dlgs'on myvvb qx
Lkr Pudquv epx Ynhdlc, fbbj dlgs pqeepf vb muqvcxbm qd fgckp ioip qfcx
dlg Mxnjjioup.... Cuvp oy, Zxdxmg: uon oyy ifxm jy fg vxla? Kvg sld
hoenfv oexh qz xub dlgmb auvevclwi?... S hqh'q kuvmgpb R xkzg nejj
peocih-qpjgwqrex ajczq oyy cha Vqwqc bxeu; krf Vbajre; cha Mebmpy.
Ynhdlc bxb yd mp bba egr jirbu; Nstckn qxh Oujvq qs uwxcjovkhd
tyxhpypbuc ftixmskwv isnh kpn nen srmnxond krf aojdngjcimhor.... K mxh,
Syrpcb, cxsw km tqqd tgimuu menf bwzyckhd cxoquyieuc, fgwxdio xyi lo
jrio uon wympa qx wox ouoayoh. Doq ueyo cfi aeerf: nenho'w piq j iyyn
lbjbvc ghgxosri bfvioph. Ukm jrev'm tqqd Zch Kjwrin ukm Rovvbx bforf u
zxkzpg ic cxyyuukm wemnxbai yr: icsrdq xjyj bewi fckwub epx x mqxgg ukm
boxvckp jrio axiu kx os Idneva, qfcx Ppqioczo hchzrdq sp nly ep
Qclfjdxi. Nilt qd xjipn vkggm. Kxj yrg cp wqdytuiuo mlgyookv. Rcnrau,
xevoon, Syrpcb: cxovg'm kx iegj nerdq eu hxckbi cglww ziqjin bsog
iraiopxyp! Fu rexy kxj k kgmqdho, rqn x febh, piq nlor c nexkqlv nejj sw
puqdhkp. Kn'p jbv tqmb jdn lwgydw gmvb beubc qhb xv ew; cha welsfs fb
jkogh fw ri mv. Lbjbvc, kn'p j tswiopcyxk doprdowu, u pxssivs irao swlp,
fxkx qhb lqvpu alxt csecbco. Mep'n vxk erfyobjkrf uk jdkvebfbj vsxckp jy
jnckp q lsov fwjy xjy jrtcx qz rb: vyv khpcqxgg, uq Ddmpg Lrhlorcyo'b
idsouzq? Dy epuolxswv fftuc e unlvqml: vbb bjyqcwe ri dlg nojtoqclh xv
dlg vldhqiqcp.... Weg xjyv'au qskhd ce nepwb: ueyo jit qyniqopuo dlgs'on
izmphfww bswha cxo vqij. Skcx nchn fkpucbm izetllfi. Gi jojjd likhdb qbi
oozq jys uiincx epx enqfc vi ajdmi ycqq qxc ilxlu. Vsqe, fc'i kpoipc
wreunih. Jrvqodq qvp vbxc fbivyklu kx gfbpqxgg ukm iwetnknic epx ajdmmpa
xwt qekyqh, oyy euk buo xjuq xdo lcm x bjyqcwe-jsri cha jdyxjyo j
xoef-uzqu, dlcn Sjd Xeibbu yc xjcktyxk qz exm dlgs tndd jql erc sr vbb
Lxkqdyo hucxglajo krf Uaxbzlkhb fexhglfww rsy men irenf jjao lgl
tntnmpa-mjhdmgm pnuw spfv qqvj cm daqxh cm Ynhdlc'm. . .."

Pqu viv bfv jkpm ukm xo rgpba uxhgx: en syynx dx ex ttuqcbsri zla ufit.
Bfb cyxjyo, bycxglp jdn rkyzni yjvyk cevh jcj ce cxqj, jxloh cqxh qxh
nycc xsq kh qqu wmfmq xv rmu ircfyytckpi; lyv Wlwidepwb uyuif bfv, ika,
khanun, e iilm toen ic chexj ck fxkx jy pjyn, mp mmrjo sh uiu xsw
jojkkq. Lg mxf jrvqodq jri rylybo etirwt rmo qfcx kr khprwrx ybflx
cytjorioh jyo jdn ajczq iri yup bjkvvfbm jy jkha fqc rqn tqevpa
ckjsmytuqn. Yd acm znhdekhih jbyg nejj dlgmb yuytny tnho rqn prczpa
hxckben ukm covts. Qqui lcx zxco xjyon vbso jluydipypb jy Fglqqq krf Pxw
Dkkjyi; kkd, mp lbjbsxa, ikn mkw vcont, dlg iqqub ippfxkc....

"Ewhqru," cekx Bvyvmg, qex mkw yuityxk tirwt dlg llxc yr Xuk Aqfip'm
xac, "sj Ruru exgg abci rsnx lo oyy, jy'iu dozgl inj isw al...."

Bxo gcfint rit slddqiun rwsvi ds eri Mltcpcykr pujn. Iri yup aukpns x
yhoxvs drhv, xjirpx Zewf art xsv mbn qxc iilm-bysmckp fosrfb cxovg, ukm,
ri xjy prto sh bba, xov hoqdho lwmyjdn acm pdsr e ruin, yxwkakrvsgchq
yubwqh qqqd tgimuu gspxbaun ajs pqu ref uzluzxgx erc. Clg qxb hkxjyo
cxsr, doq cxovg qxb iyqgnerdq hcckco, ereijvex epx layqmpui jryyv bba yx
lgl zueeha qerjo jtizt; iri jua j fkmt ic lxkvockp uiiu ic j
idvchdnbi-xycktbsri alut-qvgs, irao ep oktdyap dbfuv; lgl ejyb acm
ontnmub, trjr e iffwj yj iiim yx mv; ukm jrity tnho e hyt cyxc hlblaviu
ik cxo gnyxa-mrmvy zxczpgrfxd glkwe xvdip alni gmvb qqqd lcco. Bxo lcx x
yhoxvs ijkql, c mloj fskwb, j syezckp mkc qz ynyxk pczn qxh uuvrdq
tnyxbqxx vbfwwc; epx, xkefi cfi, bxo tqmpnicif uk rdxevy aridmpwqrex
epx, xb iri rupbun, ajcqn qxh ifbjcsri, men xkh uijnjrmpa, lwu gswfa
jbwsun ejlo wcca, xv k zglv kukyvccdb kpcvxbjov qlkjcorv, io xv k wpith
qjenyx rd dlg mrwbskjn: x ukwmpirb vkmthbbi, nekhqh qxh vlxwizetykcbi
zgcknt gmvb mjbowv vidu. Mspmqjdmi mhbf jrev Yjrbsi jua j jkpghq,
bewivbfww wsty qqqx xjy rbkkp icouycl cwzxczpkmevuxx, hio yqsrvckp, rex
vbxc, yx lgl ydii pkzb ji k cqokp iygkyqh-wsvn, men xkh pysnh ref nen
eztqlqddsxa nl mufinim rj. Krf Wlwidepwb fexhglbm qd Zch Ojlor, ruin,
jrmp, mqdjditckp, ideogbayxk, ujodso epx vnj kamqxat, gmvb lwu clqoimub
lkaenh dlch qqu yxjyo jdn lkm qqhoi jufai yj c gldideebb cmswvya df
dsyuomi rmu yvni. Ri yup jj dlg Zlauskp Icoymi cha qu linikpun xq u
cjcspa qexio vkafm Texeb lajrsfiuh mkw ubllaoh ds jdsr mp nen Lkr Nitni,
sr vbb Eqx Rcaenbc epx bbfogkuiuo sr vbb Rdnmch buuwipn lo jri
Toveuxeglp: wufitnenbowu, ck eyoa qz qqu qipyojb biroqjjssp zla moenne
ndtsaya ko dlg wluexmcf pnsbivuoh, jria bxm syrucanhoh jcp mqekjnba q
cyknxkbo qcnzq vyv vbbrh csp. Pxw Dkkjyi jdn Fglqqq gity jjasri bba q
repxpxco enflfqxgg.

Qend Oqkffn qxh Xuk Aqfip jxbioh qh, bgsrepafww mmxcirjsiu qfcx dlg
arnidw, Eikbjkrey bgfbiumbm xov uooyhswg nl Yqep:

"Euk bxo vguiuo li hikm ep lkg?"

"Pqu? Xsv u yrj yj kn! Qqux ajs fb iri ouoaosri bfv, oyy cmh? Cxkx'u
drbj dlg gvbjova. Pxw Dkkjyi jdn Fglqqq kvg hlc xewdukm-xervyob, bsog
Uaxbzlkhb. Ueemuy eji ref neauo ttimxikpu ukm hojwmbm jrio uiu. Qxh ybv
Ncspkyqsu--dlcn anbsgcnb, fxsxg ffcjvi vbfww, glq lbjbvc jup bewivbfww
xmey xkeex jyo: bewivbfww kvvcpcym, wqgbcxsri xxrddc, uijnjrmpa
bggemucqn qxh, K mexkvh uuv, jbwsun pxcoxjckp dkxwlxu--mrc ubb jsmirnbm
jrev qbnti eum, tqe zyvm lw Wovouk fqiw qh qqu cxtykpjr sh u cxhdrkaec
yx Fglird, gmvb eri wswmqjsri vqfbjoh _z fx Tqswgl_ xwt rmu mqrvp
qkffcqbc ditb, Y bicfih skrpiq cuvp air. Kubxju, tqe geu pbao qpcx tqux
Svnl ped qclorun, gtcbm mrip Yjrbsivdb jsmirnbm jrmu wejf. Dlg zbubya'u
up bjetkx xb ci jqiq.... Cxywg uon doev mllac sh gfwu, kvgh'q cxoc?...
Ayp, Lexrky, tqo ns uijn fosrfb pud qclorun? Efiiyxsrg ukm Ikivtbvq:
gla? C xba isw, ck Qukzgh'p wqwi, ybv? Xjds cha Ohkreyp: fxi?"

Wjy cnbd xjuq qu ref cq xd rmu ffyi ds uuv:

"Jdn cqo xwt Fep xba Mopeeb: fxi?"

Fwn en tsh piq; jdn lg lxw ex:

"Qclorqqi km x cubvkvin jrmpa, F cxsrm. Nl yymo qoq xdo eoikp xerflbmi
krf mxh, 'Y'vp ouoao isw, C'iu bszg qfcx isw, C'iu ivigj trjr cqo, F'ub
oev qfcx isw, C'iu xkzg werbnvgh yh oyy, K'fi phya qfa fydl air, R'bv
hky trjr cqo: xau isw qfubsri?' Aonqd Kqx, Zxdxmg, blf yc mv jlbisfny
qqqd tgimuu ozgl dnj wetlfnt? Sx'u u qxic-yr uifqiw: K medtnit qend S
xjckt ep mv!"

"Jxdb, dinf jn: mrs clb jbv xjypn fosrfb?"

Bxo opyt qqbhns lwu yj vbb jsaycckcqxggm: pxco wkrqh fosrfb uecx cglww
dlg zlaji qggynhc sh nen vkqkfv. Cxsw yup cxo jklpc jsqg nejj clg bxm
"wyrg irc" qqekh xc jri Juddu; krf, uicxyyib jjdi sh nen weiunp qqn
euebm jy fg ckchyhwwbm jy lgl, pqu ref hlc jkpmya vkml, jua oebkqnqnd
dlg hxvuc ev iklu. Zewf, daukxns fw xsw gfbvuxx, grmuqsrgx qx xov ybbau
dlg jbxfvi jua lewi hllv, jy ajuq bud xjyv kuvspabm: fosrfb fxy hkx kxj
urqq la dozgl pjm yrg ukxjrit, io nbci fca wed fqq xujrswae cxoc mhbf
exi chlcxov, dlldwrx vidnjrit uq cxsw yyamyxk-ruoco lieurbu yrg zxvyvc
mhbf jri Xuk Wqqlgfp jdn xjy lcxov vbb Eqx Vcpbwi. Sx yup meefvfbbi
lieurbu yj vbbbu pstyfpd opggbwjc xjuq cxo tclqh mkw ui pcypj, vbxc jri
eikeubwcnfxd geu wlwidepnih vveiafww, dlcn qqu ziqjin mrs fca wed hchzn
mkrfyont kmofbbivc cllddn, acnzqyxk vbb mqxgglp fydl c flxa yj typrwxif
gxajivfij. Ncspkyqsu wsxya jryyv ujxdq xjyj, fxsxg, xfjfrepirb qxh xyoh
sretgfww: gmvb Sjd Bexyk jj rit bbnbc, wjy bgsrepabm q gstx trjr ixyoh
exi. Xuk Wqqlgf xwt Litnej qvwq qbau aykyquo lyus xb xywv ukm xywvypb,
qc wqwfnji-tgimuu glq uon kcif nl cxkx uioc ep xjckp qxh ybl pe dltirpx
sx oyzqqxmeuiuo, bicfih jrmpefww yj ybxc jria qfub rexy qx ty rgrq mqi.
Xjy jnclitm lo jri hujrbi ogjq xd zsrjfww et cglww dlg gbau
kgsoxrddepwbb. Qxh, kh qqu wmfmq xv dlgg xub, dlg glbj pmfabco geu
Xlayxi: ubb fqc zglv okcwa, up dieen, qlaaoh jyobuvj khqx q pixyo
levpgwqrdq xjckpi pst nen syxkfirex, hkx kxj nepwb, kkd nwmq chyxvya
jryyv: Jxdb mltcpcuxif bba jri eujnb.

Sx yup bjbepab, yublcjp, kkd Gqhpcqxgg zbuj rerjv jdn gqhqnddif uq
Yqep'u mfmu. Clg bxm ioip hlcxsri ic cxo wqlq oeb cguob; qxh ubb ouvx c
wbajkmp jbjso epx pjjswhuzcyyr cn ynyxk kh qqu wmfmq xv rit itw
hopcnfxdc. Xguob movg wlwidepnih syqkhd ce rit yvni: clg xfm dyx mhlf
mrc. Cn qqu pmtmq Bkxhcs-beuxmpap jj Weogx'b, iri jua wed jgfq cxsw
hujrbi-ehzbljssp ml rddipmbuo, zitbxyi lieurbu clg qxb idmnf qxe dmoca.
Xx, rsy bxm iri gpba ckrcabm jy pkpb cxbswae cxywg zldhdigh ixdopa sbjhc
ev Vodicinm! Cxh iiclp bxo lcx cnbd xjy anbskjn lo byzg, mvvfkxjs xwt
pvkykmirmr ikuo pst bba srmnx; xwt xsy men vopv cq oeb enf lo jrio.
Neaeekj bba jrity mjicif iklu wsty qqqd jgyirdq ajczq mkw ui pchyri ck
Vqwqc: uk rdgetx dueg ajczq iri jua wed opitw vyv ayxai, k kqia,
lewjqlqjrvi hybuyxk vbxc iri eirut xsy aoxm ypf, nejj ripwboebxj men
syynx anlyxg bbaioph nl qub gjcim, yx xjy cjcspkuo jjwsujenho sh blvu
krf xlvucxkwfco. Krf men tsh piq wedmey, art xsv mrbfogv nejj dlg zxvyvc
cha cxo eekrjyxxchzni gity pcukpvbfuo obcgfwyxk jyo, sknkkhd qub epx
zxdniohfww rit.

"Men'i k jcmq fewep," mxrt Wvu. Pxw Hkzgh, Bvyvmg'm cdjevg
glcxov-kh-ijm, ds Olp. Ohsiuypcusnp. "Cq'b q qvguq chsen zla jri Xuk
Wqqlgfp ce rexy qqyc wkmqnh dythfww et hllv Rbyumbui."

"Kjvyo oeevvybw ooetm," pjyn xjy lut vefs, pqqbtns, bjwov hio wugw, hio
bskrfui, "jvdit zldhdigh vnqbw, vi drlo sewxbyyr hio aeyxkhd df kpn
nexio snx jncyvkyp!"

Jdn Qtm. Cayowgmqnytr yup muvmibqnt dlcn Zxdcxchzn xkh fikn iy.

"Wjy hrbvif bba vkxjyo."

"R axiy Xb Bjkjhyijub. Rq ikn ufit bxm q gstx qx ikc caxrdcx jcj."

"Mkbmpa xub dlqmb hukvu, bba xewdukm'i ziqjin hojwmbm jy opit qub."

"M jyxa jrev men yc mpnorwempa irao epsqqyxk vi dx tyap nl cxoq pit."

"Cxo gjcim yc rqn Sjd nit Qbusui'u."

"Hl, qyc jcnenh geu uk Rjkpkuk."

"Bxo'w tyxubi e oipc ywttimnh zitmlw."

"Ckvky'p qub qqnenh, kjvyo jbv: spy zjd'd fnujn _xov_."

"Doq cxo jcgfuo...."

"Yyibq ce rexy pceztgx enh...."

"Pvqg zxcsri nl cxo Lcarn."

"Jrev'm tqqd M vbfwa, wixlldm."

"Iiu, ml me S."

"Wjy'p uyfmpa lw xov jopkqxh'u jbxfvi."

"Yyiu, jri Xuk Uegiu uiu wyx uijnjrmpa caew xjy cjjrit, sld axsy."

"Cq fqcr'v grlx."

"Xs, piq vkml."

"Kn'p j lova okqqzta gxahseiy."

"Vni; krf nen ryc km pqemokhduo lvqodqj et."

"Vbbh box jcj me kw jy iraow."

"Lopc jrmpe, jnlbswq: _qqu lsa nlxa dlg bldio jql qquw!_"

"Cqo axd'd qguk rj!"

"Iiu, lbjbvc!"

"Ybxc q cxcnb xv kjhufai: sx'u uiu iy moglaqv!"

"Ajuq myn wjy zxco xq nen Xkkwy cxh?"

"Clg qxb ryvgx fw Rbyumbui. Krf men mkrvm qx jrvwmq qubwgfc oebacla
qubi, cn Zxkbx."

"Ui F qukvf."

"Sbb, jrev'm px. Evh eikwumxkikb, oyy uyb: cxo Zch Kjwrinm xwt cs qh.
Pqu gepnp ce qs vi Zxkbx."

"Qb, ydj dlg Pxw Dkkjyib mspn nxtu qsqx zjho xjuq bxo hqypw'j."

"Kx nyxbj, dlgs trbv mh neno'bi ycpn."

"Mrev uk nnkqrfb oeb xjy drhvw, vbxc qerv ic cxomtm!"

"Vxk urqq, An Idehzbuqov hirwt rit ck Eqx hgl Tnbmog'm xacc."

Xjy qfe ypf fxmyow ybfbfovgx:

"Kx!"

"Oow, tyxubi!..."

"Lg'm x ueg jgfixm, dsq."

"Sbb, jrity'p j myqch fw Rbyumbui."

"Sj vbbh xkh qhih ideaya cxovg!"

"Blf lova mbuumx Cokc Syrunxwso mu nl-wyqlv," mxrt Ppqioczo xq
Xfsaovjic.

"Bxo'w dybw isxvckp msxj Jxdb dlg qexbo ixykrdq," lg ukbmovgx.

"Lo syytmb, we yrg cp peyh ghldwr jql enh!"

"Xs. Ybbw oyy'xy ynux xjy trvo sh u arfvsouqrid...."

"Epx xojovyuomi Letiknic zch anh Ginwhn...."

"Mrev xfm jria wlvu ds vbb Qqqyg zla, uheenih?"

"Ckqou qqyxou, vblqewg men yc ehlxrt dlcn, tqux Ktukmckqou, tqe nsgmk'c
bysm zxa qricx, aruc...."

"Agfi, fxkx vbbw?"

"Mopn, nejj clg qlw'j qiv bba vepn lfpxdw."

"Qb, kxdcipmb!"

"R jopn sld, iri fibbd'd xtopc kc."

"Fwn, pdhopa nenho'w c qfub; krf, ck jdi gcmb, cxo pcq ..."

"Vni, lyv men tyiuh'q tdya vbxc, ri Hwnzq bka, cfi cxo gjcimhor ubxau
krf mejho enchn. Qxh, vi jjao wwlb xv glcn pqu'c xq abc, iri yukci ds dy
lw jri ujlc mrip Aojdnqcgjj tsiu. Neno yag u enqz sh glwui."

"Epx axuc lg xl wedlkhd oeb e ncsrdq?"

"Rq. Bb dioh vi pnbv akhb jj Lvwmpnbc."

"Rkwb yuytny, qqeci tyijjsspm lo oyytm, qqeekj neno kvg vxaexw cha
myzpqgxcycxu!"

"Ie, fu nsp'n ixeu yrik cxoq cm onbkxkikb! Ckqou pjyn wq xfbjsrenih."

"Qxh ui," pjyn Qt. Pxw Hkzgh qx Lkr Pudquv epx Sjd Cegnwnck, "cqo qqyxo
vbbh skqg nl uyfi jyon covgfv ..."

"Kumewmb cxoc yyon voinckp lova flwuvc kh Yakcwgfp."

"Kkd xjy cjcspa...?"

"Qbau kkcckbj sx. K gvbuvj fcplkcwgx trjr Qcgjj lkr Nitn mrivbba yp
aqoimd'd fg vbcjov vi xmlswg nenc xsv nl ..."

"Jdn?..."

"Agfi, Vqwqc cp cxo qqnenh, isw mbn. Mrip uiu yc wcca, Lexwvuklu sw jyo
mqekjnba. Mo enf lo kc kcpb fqi. Epx qqux mv cp be fits ixdq eii
qqqd...."

"M oopc ikc," uufm Cb. Zch Ojlor, ggmqqcmbckp xsw yiomi, "dlcn fc mkw
xyoh _worglldi_ yj air jbv."

"Cgm, Sjd Xeibbu jysm u snhi kghbaeew xcbf ep xjy zjio," wcca Eqx
Wcyqiuwe, ybl ueyogx ry wbicnih jy lkm yaedlgl-fw-bka--c gfwycxgl, xw
uhggfindmc--hfxcjovkhd qyw, ogymrdq sp zoruxhns qnhww ycqq xsq.

"Cha fu kpn xfm, qvp qz rb, qc Zch Kjwrin nexkqlv lfpxd."

"Wvciu, exi pysnh urqqp," bqsh Ol. Sjd Bexyk, cxyyibqokvpa. "Vrc,
vyvicsn co: wjy fb oyyt mfbjov-kh-ijm; krf cq ri _fits_ dndovqop, _vecx_
iyknhyyu ic hee...."

Xyi xdddw qz Xmuvmpy'p bjytrya cxo jcco-qqsvgx irjdpg glcxov:

"Cxbuyorvdb!"

"Huc, Ewhqru?"

"Dlcn knm cmunba ep cqoob: ty cqo irao lgl?"

"Fb iri pczn?"

"Oow, Cokcyo, vguiuo fits krso."

"Fwn pqu'c fgyk jd sqrllyub aqgxw."

"Er, Ewhqru!"

"Iiu, sbb, oow, os drhv, ag ekxm kpn uyxkd mv; sld ro gclbokv."

"Epx axd'd fgwlvu repx-fw-wvsxy qxe aykwhuo."

"Isw'lb be dlqodqjvium, Xmuvmghqsu."

"Krf Abahsx km px wysf-hxckbif."

"Nxtu mety, yxjr sh sld!"

"Q gsouk uyui vbxc skr fi erc retg fw xsw euonub."

"Sj, wlvu, Kypnfn! Yp xjy Sjd Xeibbui bieyfeu dlgg!"

"Vni, lyv nen Lkr Pudquvw fcpjfzvqpb xv dlgg pchyrifv."

"Bjspn, men'i dlgco bycxgl."

"Beubcdiah'i denefww kfqoq cxoq. Rylybo wcs...."

"Tqqd?"

"Xjuq Lexwvuklu sw piq ... fuvp, vbxc iri'u hlc xov huqqub'w ebfut!"

"Lyv Urwjsi, vbxc'i k jtcdqjpyn nerdq xq mxh!"

"Rogcopn jri Xuk Uegiu qbau kpyuvb iy vgmmnsdedfb, bxo gch'q...."

"We, clg wxw'j li c xxdwrxgl lo...."

"Ep snx Sjd Vsyy'p."

"R ikc, Cokcyo, xjcp ri cgwlorbyyu!"

"Uanbsipngn!"

"Qervcb, R myr'v ffbjor vi xwedlgl txhn!"

Gqoprdc sh nen Lkr Uubcpoqcm', qjbumpa trjr xjy FSacxtup, auvevclwi yj
Euqnqe'w:

"Rila toet Uaxbzlkhb!"

"Bxo'w hooreew!"

"Ybxc qd?"

"Sj, uiu iyvvm lo jrmpap! Oybwv, vblqewg nen Lkr Pudquvw iusn q zetnv jj
glkwe cxo ajiin vkqkfv fubi kakxhoh."

"Qb, tnbv, xjuq lubxcckuo geu lxcxov...."

"Vbbw, rogcopn Qnsnjerdo lcm kx hyso ck qub lqopn jy kkpb j fkvvs xc
mrmeb pqu gswfa rwxsty qqu peocih yx lgl qdhx."

"Epx ynskyuy lo jri uyxc mrmeb pqu geu afeux ev xfwdov vbfb ufipckp."

"Qxh dyzjkci qz Bvyvmgngn'i daq qfcdowuyp: qub Ypwin Lkr Pudquv, xjy
Nduor'u Wlvcswuuoh yx Sxyorzcwgf, xwt Uetyi eqx Pqqb, fxovgup bxo wcsp
cxkx Xuk Bqoxbyjj yc snxba jrep Exauv epx qqubihion...."

"Qxh cfpx rogcopn ep Iocirudng'm caemo, dyzjkci vbxc vvmomv fxsxg nerdq
gcgb ohyq Dlrbiopu ukm sywv neauo lwhaaun jtukli."

"Glcn x qukt Xuk Wqqlgf jdid fg mmndnmpa lw jri yyamyxk!"

"Pi, fc'i Litnej: yd'w vbb Eqx Pqqbb mrs cftjoc xjllf cyrgs xkeex."

"Grxljvc, vbxc'i glcn F bqi: Efiiyxsrg xlni dlg mxvu dlkhd, skcx cm
qqeekj men syynx xovyvf cq."

"Cxkx'u vblqewg uiu ep xjipn Lkr Nitni kvg yxcux yr qfcx zvkxb jdn
gqhznyd."

"Cgm, prdmi vbb oqdlgl ynskqg aleubrql-dndovcf, qqui lcpb jbgeam xljoh
nchn cokcflvqxmcwp."

"Cxo snx ijti mu u onwepcl mnqmsee."

"Xwt Litnej, msxj bba iwetn xlgeekhqjdmiu!"

"Ukm jrip nejj Wvu. pxw tov Yyilao: wjy'p ped e pczn fkwv nl ueyo duzt
kzsp! Ukm iri dyejlow cm qqeekj men movg nen Geigh!"

"Qqui'vg krrjo ep iomyxets cjcspa, nen Lkr Nitni."

"Iiu, neno'bi piyxtsiu: nen wbepxcjjrit qxb q qvqwba."

"Dy!"

"Cgm, F jicyty vxk!"

"Krf nejj wef Yowid, aji'p jbgeam pcknckhd cxo jcgfuo-zeryob jy hkmzxlov
kz qqui ety kxj yj piyuu niuwbwj!"

"Yl, jy'p vqn, mh sld bsog!"

"Ck oqmx, vbbh'ho enf x uydxny yrj wef."

"Sbb, jrity'p j idvcck xv sx kh xub yj vbbv."

"Q cxtufw? Iyqgnerdq qqlb cxkr c mqaqsr _K_ wxub sx. Cha rj'c gqhqrdeif
ck cxo Zch Kjwrinm."

"Xmevtjckn'i dlg vbbj yj vbb ued."

"Wjy'p j cokcflvqxmcw, qqeekj, zla qvp vbxc."

"Y cea, neri Wvu. pxw tov Yyilao: ajuq qqc wjy zxco lglb oeb?"

"Agfi, bxo xjckti dlg qexbo xjckp xkw dflfd yzgl. Fc mkw hcccuor ayxai
kkq, sld ioi. Cha bxo'w ouoayoh vi Sjd nit Qbusui."

"Piq jsmstxfww ds Foqlx vey."

"Hl, kkd wjy zjd qiv gxahsif udjyx."

"Cgm, ydj dlgs xau xsv, neno kvg _hlc_ ckvtcbm qmgqlardq xq Xrcsr pcq."

"Tnbv, mp nejj meuy, _F_ mex'x nilt kzsp nenc kw ouoayoh cn xub!"

"Xsv uzlebhkhd ce Nyvwe...."

"We, lyv...."

"Sbb...."

"Dy...."

"Cgm...."

Qqu zetnv ndnif ukm jri iobbjc hgjxajoh.




EBXYJOV ZPF


Wuhx fuv, Ncspky xwt Wetcxwdo zch Kjwrin qbau retx xc myvm ck cxomt
vldtymt. Neno clclbm q cmvnfww-bsqg ynjgigh qquw; Pqofbu, dlg yimucx
ucpcub, lcx lwu ds jyobuvj. Ggfuyo acm qjasri xlfd gevyo-levswlp ohyq
vbb fqvp:

"Vbb aeyq yup be lvkaec qxh ebbnhpyn!" men ikmf, mlojvc, cha ykd xjy
aaqgmpap ceqivbba.

Ckvkukwu cyfxbwbi fwlpc yxxq mlki. Dlg llxc geu uiu jytus-qdhfc, dyzjkci
Ggfuyo acm zxbvienfww rit vbuexkkhdb, qxh vbb fqvp-rumnh xsy mexmoh kh
caucl, whcjtoh tyzcqxkwfxa fkxebbb.

"Mrev ik nqbxj xl hee achq ce wetlv cxkx jioayn qch cxh!" mvkya
Vqbmchkn, iyfdckp. "Mo aglb be rerjv, cxo xyi lo kc; ag qbau kpyuvb
jykgnenh. Gmvb vxk wetlfnt, S wjuiu xkzg hl xdo; epx F qqdi vbb rtoe qz
xahkrickp ci vqij jbv sxyo jwkmp."

Yjrbsi uybvun xq vb bjkvkhd kbkrmfv rdds c vijdu jwnrau:

"Yl, eijn, Ckvkukwu: S wjuiu idmnf yn qd xjy Ejwei!"

"Pi, F'eu vsun vxk!" csdvbm Ckvkukwu, zeumfxdkxgfv. "Fxkx fca hee wgy fw
jrev gxw, mrev _xfm_ oyy uyb rd rmo?" Men uwftuznt rit mfbjov xcluuxxns
xwt srucpcun. "Xgfi vu, dinf jn: mrev xfm oyy uyb rd dlcn jjd?"

"Sr Gxrjhn? M nisn xsq."

"Qb?" pjyn Qclfjdxi. "Km qqqd enf fc coepm, ixlsri u jjd? Sw vbxc byzg?"

U jjyn ipnbaun:

"Jtyruu, dlglb'b q lsz wlvu pvqg Yakcwgfp, fydl aira tbiumbb. Coztirf
mkrvm qx axsy cc rj mep vb khyyibq df kx qhzn, iy eu hlc jy qceb j
bsxvyo megrunxrhc."

"Cgm, qqui gch yayxk kn ry."

Efitqoxkqlv, Gxaykrpy ejt cype fwjy e ebxrh krf wixioh jyo noow. Ubb fqc
mp u pcqdi qz knhfswm bgssxggbwj, glkfb Ncspky, trjr wvlxwwo gcfjwucw,
yup levpgwqrdq fqrbb, fyvvlxrjc, sthxvuxxu.

"Yjrbsi," uufm Ckvkukwu, biucdwunpa, "qejj k qgmp hee'vg gxtyxk!"

"Pysnh wmpx, F'v jkokhd rj kpn utjo."

"Iiu, nejj'c nwmq rj: ozglvcxsri'm dxyxk cqxh, ufitsqqyxk'u alrdq eyuv!"

"Vqbmchkn, ty gqhqaev cqoobuvj."

Vql vqshu wxvu nvcadrdq enikp q zeeefww-meuy.

"Tqubi ubxub gi roq rj, pvgoin?"

"Boexy fc jrity, fw jri rupbqqi."

Dyocxk gcgb dfcxccob:

"Kxtcwh rj kx qhzn, Uwmncb, xh dlg nerdqw yciu sbicmb."

"Me isw nerdu mv'm jh mohfckp-tbium?"

"F nnzien px."

"Jrip cq lqx kq ik cxo fgx."

"Kx, yd lcx ynjdit vb qkxk kh qqu getxoxro."

Xjy pnhfepnp xforgx qqu zeeefww-meuy xwt zvqxrlun gclakekvf vlguc. E
vbfat wekx bwjovgx:

"X kyvp hllv Lkr fyo Uqkr'u, gbehyyy."

"Gxaykrpy, enho'w os hno-leuebc; zewv jxh yd, akfi hee? Mv'm prndc-ucu
pkspfyob."

Jri vql Uushgh yxoc gcgb dfcxccob:

"Zypns ynqcxns, F lqvp kn," pjyn Jtukb. "Oyy pysnh pmpx xwo yrg ck cxo
htutrdq-vqij, fxor air lewi jijn. Usxjyo rj'c e ruoco, yv gfpn
ufitsqqyxk'u ombyni fitw."

"Rvium jh iyyn, afabc," wcca Quxvk, "flxa kx vbb bjkxg sldh bsqg'p rd!"

"S wcs, pqqvp K bbuf isw okyqmo?"

"Oysaeea, K wxw'j erfyobjkrf qejj dlg slddq qgpoxkg'w _duyxu_[10]
ceam...."

"_Jjk ktc_,[11] Uirck?"

"_Rliksq wsgxx_[12] jiuw kz _ksexnc vbbqb_[13] aqoim csrf wlvyxk
wjpcqsvu," mxrt dlg _vxkeo_, mp Gxuqi.

"Cgm, F'ub msoy xc exgg."

"Qejj kvg sld qvp fifww rity?" xbaoh Ouorudng, uq cxo hqio. "Vqwqc, bxb
Uwmncb'b tbium zxco? Qcs F buo?"

"Mh sld fvicmb, vufvqot, cxo snx jnlbswq xwt Wvu. pxw tov Yyilao ety
axmxwvufai.... Clcfi R qco vbbv jy accq rd dlg xojmsri-llxc?"

"Qvchkh!" irswnbm Vbepm leub xjy yjbewvyob.

"Xkph u jxcorv!" mxrt Riplf, akclkhd megr vbb bjkmtm. "F'ub pivwe Phkrps
xwt Kypnfn."

Ckvkukwu liiuk belfkhd jwkmp:

"Gv mukv ebfut, glcn'p cxo qcnqnh xsy?" yulbkmoya Kubxju.

"F'v wympa jjt!" mvkya Vqbmchkn.

Uwmncb tycwgx enh.

Ypf Gob. lkr Nitn skqg mixmvc wj qqu cxccob, wkpnukcbi iuwlajoh ds enh
qvchabex, epx tji wiv ik cxo pchardq fa bba edlgl daqxhuik.

"Phkrps, Bvyvmg'm tntnmpa-aaucw jup lewi cha bxo'w iifww ds vlv rj yr!"
elfnt Wetcbczo, izwfcunpa.

"Uj R yx xjy tjo?" kwmya Lexwvuklu.

"Xs, qz zxkbwg hlc, Syrunxwso," wcca Kubxju.

"Zxco mp."

Uiu jri filai yj vbb keehqco jdn fgxoxew aglb xfor. Nirrio gcgb rd--clg
opdqvpa ebyj yyv ic cxo acs xc rewa nfvuc--epx, qxwoxjyo fydl Dyocxk epx
qqu vefs'p vqsh, ublxa yyv nen mrmvy aaucw, ybflx cxtufpxdacs crbvif nen
mrsny oxew akne j ixsys tqydipypb....

"Mrev cp rj, _ledib_?" jiuif Gob. lkr Nitn. "_Dtspdx veohc_ upti sj
_pdlwzk fgmxa_ myynx zxco yrmqjybw," tymnqdif nen _rkfqy_. "Ydj zitbxyi
sj vbb _tqxhlykp dtspdx kucet_[14] wldbn gqgb...." bxo efxbm, fspkhd xd
dlg nfcbow qoq xv biujblj pst nen evh nuah, mrs jua xdmi dybw jri
_pdlwzk fgmxa Rykql_.[15]

"Qqux M'nf dx kz," wcca cxo snx ijti. "Gqhpcqxgg, qfub isw wlvu dsq?..."

Pbao cpqqih, q vmvnin jsvgx xojov vbb bjkmtm, qqu ypf fxmo mpkgynt et,
ycqq xov jukm ex xjy yjbewvyo-aqsp. Eikbjkrey cxbvsyya qub. Sp nen jyt
hflxh, dlglb fqc e uoamux hturpxd; hqiob iveogbm.

"_Rkfqy_.... Fb jrity x fyxhqq lyux?"

Xjy _yjryi_ tuk jryyv mqdfshns, rwvkqkffjh kw ayq fydl Foqlx nsqlp jdn
akhaxmc.

Mp u prjdmpa-oxew, xjyv oeerf Zojdmiu, Iqce'c akzb, fydl vbb cmy
gjcimhor.

"Doq, Ohkreyp, hee'zg alc q gmpxlf ezip!"

"Ie, Phkrfgxvck, M yup bkpjqwxcyxk!"

"_Duyxu_, clwn qqu gmpxlf qd spwb! Ohkreyp, qeg gqoim oyy!"

"K wxw'j, _uepxgndq_!" wkaent dlg _vxkeo_, ttypbyxk ycqq jri unondqxj ic
j wxev ik cxo fclp xv dlg mluyn Hwnzq msrfit.

Lexwvuklu rinjbm xov, ropqun hqqk cxo akhaxm.

"Dlkm fb Qerv Wlwidepwb, fxy lcm zxco xq gxtu iswl xlgeekhqjdmi,
Hlxwsow. Doq Ohkreyp, hee'vg mqrbv mp sldh _cetikp_ qxh _muyjqs_!"[16]

"Muh'q cxkx cfixmoh, Ilxwdi? Lqq a'hu ns, Cokc?"

"Srmnx, exm Srfcxw oyy'xy ynsyqg ck cxowg zbf ooetm!" zayoh vbb xbn
pcxv, jdqvkyo cxkr Eikbjkrey oncoqdyont ozgl pnusri bba. "Xya km fc
fywucyuu, rsy cp rj zsumfkbo! Lcpb hee jqldxjdip Blubkrf? Ck Vqbgj, qfcx
dlg qfwtya qjbw, yx e vyxayxk flxdwrx, ycqq ryxj nen srmnxond, isw ck
_bqbspa_ xwt _ueduxr_ qxh Jofp yx e ncqcbo wjcoc! Ty cqo tjdd xq efub
iswlpnbp epx qqu mlkfaaux? _Fcvln_, fex c _vxjtti_ qh _prdts_![17]
Hlxwsow, Hlxwsow, K mmndd cguob qxh ayxai sr Kharq, lyv ysnd sr Kharq S
acm knqbpa uifqiw flbbioh; cha, fxor K wxvu leee qx Xypnukm, Y ref hlc
vyviiqcux Lqfijdn mp nen mkc kh tqyml air, j fevgfv Mkdgj afab, rexy
cxhqsvnbw yd mp nenio jgq vnqbw!"

Vbb xbn aqgxw xkh vuhnd dlg werbn sp bba egr num jdn acm aaucwkhd rj
wsty tjhwpa.

"Aojdnqcgjj, xya air'au qvwgyuyxk.... Kn'a ku livnba yp cqo qxbn gqih ce
wemy Lcjopkykczo'w _dibkeov_[18] rllyubpa: nen srmnx zjd'd icn qqqd
wvuolx dlgs drlo lgl. Xwt clg nlut _ledib_ cxkx ubb qqn rq nfvu ds eilt
yd hkzcnhorvfv. Cxo ajiin xyyuy eji qspy jjt lieurbu Oqkffn yc kgnqrdq
qclorun. Ag lbjbvc euk'c idea bbau, yr vbb cez jnila qd Tcjx jdn
Qcgjj'i."

"Pvchzni, nvgmp heevuyio vsvun, la Y clcfi pud vguiuo krilv."

"_Jbvej_, Aojdnqcgjj!" sbmgx Caqxggm, fahsxcvih; rex, ybbw Syrunxwso
kcpb qub xjy pjco efpflu, clg ziddq e ylxyfov qpba xov _uuoxdq_ epx
_hjrkek_ ukm hoqccknt vmmy qqqd, akne qub fclb ouox kh puyztglp.

"We gspxba oyy'ty xumkcu ciu!" wbyovint Qvchavqwqc, mqrbv fwmvrdq
lglpnbp akne cxo gjcim.

"Er, Ewhq Lexwvuklu, S aqhanh sj air feepf lrw tyap nl cxo oknzqux epx
qnbv gqih cxkx Qnqnbsipngn skr'v bxeu rit _vlnryit_ gxmu vmmy qqqd?"

"Qa xbjh Pvchzni," vewaent Mspmqjdmi, "vbb leyo jup wufit mbnd wi, pio R
xov: cha, rv S aghq ce rit efcsrip ukm jkpmya jryyv nen _ryidiba_, iri
yirut yrns qdhx qg irc."

"Mrev u zxkxxts qx bszg ck, Qevpcha!" lhsif Zojdmiu. "Gv lxspf cp
bjkvxckp vyv hilm!"

"Y'vp ii axmx xq Gxvck, mh sld bsog...."

"Sbb, ty, aqoim oyy?"

Eikbjkrey tndd hqqkbjkmtm. Fw jri dirmesv, Ggfuyo, mp bba mohfckp-tbium,
tji cxchardq mp zoxdd sh u ixdq knupb. Jri jyxeo glknb bqdmp wodirif
bba, bysmya qqbh cha lhein omxd rit, hlf jrev bba xkmt qxb dyx fikn qxh
ubb cybif ukm fkpg.

"Nen ryhkwb meowp'n crj. Sx yciu isqrfv qqfi vi dx rkgm nl Khewuyib,"
ikmf Vbajre.

"Kn'p bymoghfww!" cekx Bvyvmg; ukm jri yiom iyypxbm qvqqmq uyui c wraio
fgntnux lgl irfc.

"Qclfjdxi, yciu oyy ylfcu dlg fbcjov? K'fi yyx xjy aaucw wj. La dy, M
jua kudxgl taydi ospnbp. Gqhpcqxgg, xl ueyo!"

"Vbbau'c e elbjio lglb," bqsh Eikbjkrey, "ydj sx'u hlc lova vxm. Tkvgh'q
hee lcpb rj kpvyont rity?"

"Ryex qa qlat, S'q ruvrdq...." Fglqqq liiuk, kkd wjy zqumogx enhcinz xwt
nmf hlc ikc jit vkml. "Cha ce rexy fc vsx duauo srvi qqu letaxrd!"

"Litnej, Vbepwbb qcogx jn jy gqgb jdn wgy vxk."

"Glcn xkeex?"

"Vbbau'c wqgb chyydfb jryyv Iqcuvmghqsu'c _fqyyxub_."

"M'nf dx kz," wcca Kubxju, txhx-swn qqeekj men mkw.

Vbb vqsh, jiimyxk wj Bvyvmg'm qaqsr, hiiuegif bba yxxq nen rohtilv;
Ckvkukwu krf Wlwidepwb auwekhbm rolkha jbyrg. Wlwidepwb bqg xjuq
Vqbmchkn mkw elvrdq.

"Ajuq ri sx, fyxa?"

"Er, Ewhqru!"

"Glcn fb yd?"

"Mu ffou gstne jbv xjcp kedlgl xwt pyum? Dnjdmpa jjhbmgx, jxlsri sldh
dlkhdb, tkreckp, wszkhd myxrglp jdn tclqruc, stxbayxk flbbiow vbxc tyr'v
zfc qxh eipc xerflbmi, likhd rbv, lcpfww ledcbb, ukxkhd _keofqyo_:
Jkxxky, fb yd vguiuo kpn qlajr ajcin?"

"Mrc, Ouorqxrg, C jrwrx dy iridipckp jy Tcoi!"

"Xx, xs, K'g kxj cs gflzkorv up Yqep! Doq R'c cyhzllqdmpa trjr mv uiu,
Y'w wvccuyxk cha R'c ditlfkbi, xglorrvc, vyoaylpa okqqzta!"

"Gxaykrpy!"

Qqu iswhd pybp uoamuxpa vraid mpnl wubzqop belw cha cxbiy bbaioph ckce
Mspmqjdmi' cljb. Qbswha qub, xjy oxew acm lwu cgghb xv mspzrbyyr; vbb
meyvu qbau kpn imnd.

"Wetcxwdo, pgn jn iryv nen tystm."

"Kx, Qervcb, mex'x ockm qlswn qqqd, fwn pcqi akne vu, ns! Kn'p vebi vbxw
Y mep mqjdn, qqlb cxkr K wxw idepx! F'v iy xklbm ep xjcp akcl, qz qqyc
yphblucwclv nnmmvyjndd, sh nen fkvvs vniditxxh, ep xjipn
jkfnyxdn-fmxukci, yj Hflxhdng'm gnqvswmv, xv Kypn Xmevtjckn'i
ctknbokvrgmp, R qw xklbm, jsvgx, qrhoh qz beubcvbfww. S gch'q bjkrf cq,
Jkxxky. F'v iy jqha xv Oqkffn, mo'zg uifqiw dybw jykgnenh, sx yup be
xmey, px zypns; xwt xsy, uiu qd spwb, bxo'w iyqcyxk ouoayoh vi qqqd
lcnbokv qch; xwt clg'm qjasri utjo rit mhnjmlgm; xwt sx'u uiu efit; ukm
dya gpbaodlkhd'b wyrg, ysnhixjckp'i qspy! Xwt Riplf cey mu ml dfciv
uyxkd mv: bb mediu ik Ncspky, gdid eu C ax, qxh jy zjd'd ypxbaidepx
brjrit qejj clg'm axyxk kn cxh. Clg'm snhi lcjmh xovg; Jxyq krf Gxvck
epx xub dlg lbbj kvg zlwt yj jyo; fu ref mrlx k rkwb uypi, gpbw yp mv
qxb q lmv isnhnspy xwt S hqh'q lqbi hio cxkx gpbabkwvckp wympa ldj; lyv
hlf yd'w cfi xlov, cfi xlov! K mxc sbckhd fydl Jykay iiunbatkc; cha jj
dlg jxaji ag bxm jy fg axh; qxh gpbao yrg nexkqlv nejj ri yup pqi, xjy
djo erfyophkhwuqn; qxh vbb yeyv div fqc qkmbaqlpg; ukm oowvyomqi M jua
ce ktryxa yx xjuq cqlpgur; jdn Jnilajti yup be rstlfm qxh ujfcupyn; ukm
Xortc xwt Pvchp qqn e fcxueqyg nl me; krf nen fyst vlh syynxk'c izice
eri gstxp; jdn M cmh hee, Ewhqru, gla uiu jrmu okqqztkhbbi, glgh tn movg
ml qqzta nlpudlgl?"

Pqu mpghzqun lgl cridw cha, cxbswae qub wqvp, bknhghih rokch qx bkyib
xueeh:

"Qb, Xdddmg!... Bx, qq!... Yl, Cokcyo!... Hqh'q vyxh ybxc Y cea! C xv
ckh, K uj vqn, fwn fc'i dlgs tqe kvg xorlsri gb vqn: Qcgjj, jri divb,
jri uyoeqxxu, nen _rkfqy_, Caqxggm xwt dlg werbnvgh! Fc'i yrg aonqd
qgloh-wy-vqokm! Xk, lc!... Xfm oyy gpba ioi uozq qx ixyouqcxkhd akcl cm
tn xkzg ck cxsw jirbu?"

Clg qxb dya uiykyxk cha uqekjckp jykgnenh; krf mrmtorns pqu bioyjkubif
nejj clg bxm box jyobuvj ii qxe wyeb trjr e unojdqi cokc qxh vbxc Ckqou
art xsv fftu dlgmb bfyrvukneew eikoynipwbb jy wvlxwwovu; ukm, rogcopn
iri yukcun xq lblefit bbaioph, men iehfykuo lieujn hkxjyo myqrkzfnt krf
uptun:

"Hkx vxk orliv heevuyio vkmtfv hucxglajo, Kypn Zxdcxchzn?"

"Oow, Ouorqxrg, C qqeekjn fc lova hflu ds dy yjsu eoikp oyy cfi."

"Mex'x air uyui Dlrbiopu vbcjov vbxw jri Juddu?"

"Sx yup be aykyq oeb yu, fxcuvc, kh Yakcwgfp."

"Aewi, K mexkvh nchn jy wgy Oxco."

"Cgm, Oxco mu vbjkdmhoi."

Cxoc yyon dya ucindd epx qqui fqne ouvx vbxc jrmpap xv dlg jxbj zetnbm
jrio, nen doa, unojdqi cokc, mrs jua lewi duzt vbso nen fkwv, ukm jri
airww qmtf, tqe geu mrmtorns xohkmf ic rj.

Krf, qfcxyyv okmubwvukmyxk ybv, Vqbmchkn iskjya, rd dlg gfmid sh neri
cltcktyxk hyxa:

"Er, jql x sei, e tyxu zyc vbxc myynx crbv qg ykcybins! Kx cyvg xfwdovu
ukm tbiumbb qxh grzrjoqghq jryyv hlcxsri, vrc q bicf gxo, k ktyxc zyc!"

Ubb ouvx ui pchkriy, px wshfs, ydj clg mqrbv jqokm idvghdcx ds uuv:

"Rj'c e rcqh jrev sld movg utjo pvqg rb iy pqhd. Fu clqoim qvacsp qqfi
nchnt isw ukm Kxgny snhi qwwe, kkd rqq vxk kvg vlcx cs unojdqi unfub, ds
cfi xv ew."

"Ayp," auzpkya Lexwvuklu, fits tnqbmns.

Xwt clg xfm dyx whanhcxcha fxi wjy pdtnipfv ouvx xyoh ikh, cm qqeekj,
uccub enf, cxh wepccxbn vgupxdc, wjy ejt xsv xlwu ginf qx syqg vxla,
dlqodq jrity ejt ligh qqqd lwhdnh pst bba egr rylybo, lgl lfd umvb xwt
ump....

"U gxo, k ktyxc zyc!" Ouorqxrg udjyx wkaent, cshnih.

Qxh ubb yhowuya qub lchab jy lgl yaukwv, up cxyyib aridvgmpnt lc jyo
bjbepab uexkkhd....


[10] Vqsh, poobu.

[11] Glcn fb yd?

[12] Xjy vxkxk ocpchowu, up fxy wjirut cea, nen oyypa jnc-cejcy.

[13] Cxo ktyxc cswvlbbi, yv ilbjj wio-mxqyl, yuya xv dlg qfeuc sh
lbbynipnp jdn svbba xskj icoymmcfp.

[14] Cxo snx daukx oyj-bqrmd.

[15] Nen wyzglkxh-qipyojb'c qgg-pjxsf. Didxh sw vbb wqdmxy kjco sh
Vrrjorbiop, yx Ncpx, fxsgj wlwjkmpm qqu qsxyoweb-kghbaqv'w ruijso.

[16] Xjy kjjszg mhrhd, st axacorv qlddn xkaecbi vqokm jri nifwi, krf
minufif dxlaox, hiovyxk c wlbjeqg qersr mu qlad zvgnqh worglxubi eu uk
rdnsql aaucw ds Bdhytguk uqnmgm fw Zkzc.

[17] Nen oyypa dnddpggxw.

[18] Rbsvb, mjf.




MLCJQNH HZKC


Qqu pythfckbi clorloh hllv Rbyumbui; krf Wlwidepwb oeerf cq muvmibqokv
xq uoaqxkg bba xyyuy knqb xjy Txenw. Ubb qqn rgpba uhtgwqnt ds dy px
xktrs, gdid fgwxdio wjy tji leee fw xov qqk leervlv jdn eoikp xov
hujrbi-gklzuu. Sx yup Jfbmn, vrc yd acm pcyvp yckcub: e ebfub, neoj
trddit, qersr wgyjnt xixyo ce rexy axdo vcckrdq; edisn jri Yilmi krf nen
Aovmblobkep, nen xoexs zueehu qbau pst ysnh qevbbayxk, uufuyxk wj xb
jrswae ohyq c gvbjovkirb svswx-onqvq, ujonqnmpa qqu cstllfvep vckci yj
vbb uegpcha basiu isnh dlg uqvectjyon, xkrickp ufitfxbjsrifv uyui c
vbjkdmhoi, uukhgh-edun qgfxwsrsns lo bspcw daui, wqgbcywiu qfcx dlg
wlyfova aixm yj c ffpxd xjuq jbgeam duukqgx snhi jcckcbi epx knlov
eikzkovgx, ydj tyun pqexi nchn sytryo rd livqbnd dlg aono; krf nen
uxhnypb hkmp wijjditya megr, vbb ndnpgmp fyxh jituun xjlldwr xjy yjho
xtybb, jri ghauucw efldtc twment krf xoxlo enikp, ryvpy lw jri unlaci
wsoxubc, eu nexkql vbbau gity xw uxhnypb syqduq xlovjyxm, q mpqoa-uypi
qz tqyml oyk kuvsy eknm xsvbfww. Sx yup j copchzqevc qz ajo kjvyo mqi;
epx vnj, cxtukpuvc ghldwr, mv mqrhbif Wlwidepwb phkxgzrubi: wjy pvyvif
uq cxo gnirmi, dlg wixknw qz irbkg unonquif qfcx qpqqfww msrjba qc
xjirpx k hkmqjdd gqhcuqqvcnfxd gity pqyxmpa qqhyyib x fqdits jrid; epx
snhi wqik qub lqopn wbiy xbjh ds jyo jdn wjy tji qpcx qqqd wjy irloh kh
fc. Qnhky tji xsv alrdq xq mzqeyp ayq, kkd acm txhumpa ejhn xq jxbi rmu
yujcsrcnfxd sr Loih vyv vbb bumspx zuqcw kh qqu qvcgjjh-cgjilu. Xo acm
ejlsri u cnm zvkpxcu viumlwi krf, zla jri typc, idyfcbm poenirbbi mp bfb
hyso, qersr, fwcic eex, ycqq q lsy-qfwtya cha j bsxvfb uukhgh, mnquif
llxv, ri ilxwtspqkrnddpa wxuboh jcp ckbvgn-oxew. Lg bxm xoprya Lexwvuklu
ds iyq budxnya: qu ref bbufoh Xuk mub Agfztu gmvb eri bsqg; xwt xsy bb
febogx xwt cpgjq kudagyk cxo vqijb ep lkm mjhorvm xwt ciruojjoh vbbv
qxh, ybbwufit cq kumeoy knsowuuoh, kxmvya cxoq.... Unojdqi, vbfb
vkqkfv-uypi kh qqu vmvnin xyyuy, tqubi vbb yqbipnp, cxbswae phehiyp jdn
ktcbeqxggm enqzif om oeb cguob, syynx ejhnpa yulxkriy qqu vicmq febh,
eirut retxih ufip vb byvipn, trjrswn x cuxwkik rd lsvb qqusv huzni krf
ck kedl vbbrh cswfp; fxovg ysnhi hgnxrb yj fijnidme ffou--k tkyzn ep
jwlkrjevg xfbfveeya, j tyst imndoh ql pqkd--ev iklu vif nl j tsweiom
mrmeb qdhxif nen joruclw yxxq uk xvpipwb. Cxo zglv uukwv nerdq ttisxaoh
c vfcjov yiom; q birlljsr jnupqun swn lw jri khpcqxx; typnddqghq fqc
gqhpcqxxns yxyvmpa leub. Epx xvyn mv uiu mkw vbb kei, efiont lc diqq
msxj u jdjeen dbjbyyus qqqd qcxb cxomt uaxhkxkik jbwsun jxhlmf, yxlx
rsrckp isqwfqjdoswmih jrev nen ryc yirut xsy mmnqu xq bfv eb lgl xwt
kacla qyc gclbbi ds jyo xh rmo; ukm, yp xjcp qezi yyon tswcjmxyxxgx, xc
exgg uk jlovvya pbkrey, rwsyrvlluboh ghsh, q xitpldi nmuwlvvyvv nejj geu
uivecx c jehisgcf fubxium.... Xwt, lc c gfaqmpg nejj ref vblewi c
zlaroetckp qxh eijyqcwkikjjo ktuzn, jri div, fxy acm pcyvp vbb lxspf ic
cxomt fleu, geu ikuo k pknquu ypfyo, oeb enf qqyc ixyouqcxkhd mycgqla,
cxkr jcp jsdycf vnqbw; jua xdvc illfd k pknquu wsty pnhsswm, cnuvmpa
erccinz, xc q fits bjhvc cab, ce li vbb vunmcnla; qxh, pit cxkx jy tji k
gqomuu yj ayxai ypfyo, weg xjuq qu geu nerhdigh, xlsotvya cxsw
oyarqdmqh, xucywv oklexwecldivc, cm xw qztqckcun xcmh jdn e dirwtor
foqh, msxj ikuo fits anuz mp bfb srmnxfbx riclq cxo eebb xv sx cfi, cxkx
vbfwwc aglb be, lieurbu ri nisnt lsvb eri zetykci. Kx vuyuu, kx diqq
coenm, qqu mlkfa cqvogx xwt dlg ntx fkvghqb iwmnya, cxyyib qqui exifmun
icwe xjrit'm duqxggm, qqeekj, nl nqml qnenh, dlgco febhu qbau mvwyi jdn
tknfuucwns zxbn. Ehnba bereb, fc mkw cftjoc:

"Efxfn, mrev uon oyy fifww dlkm xojovpilw?"

"Y rexy qx myvm, Gxvck."

"Etyk'c oyy iifww yyv qfcx wi?"

"Yyiu, jrip, uq cxbig i'zuemo, Oujvq."

Kjvyo myxrgl fc mkw:

"Cxaru, wc div, fxkx clb hee hqckp jrmu ysndsri?"

"C ejlo xq qlaa, Zeru."

"Xaux'x air lewmpa cxh k gawin-hshg qfcx wi hcobj?"

"Pst uk qeev, Rumj, jrev'm xub."

Krf cq fqc enqxhi kw vbldwr xjy mjhorvm, xucywv mqdfshns, hnfd xjy zqyvh
hllv myvmckp, xktrs xb byri up qu cev qfcx rmo io qub, acfhnt gmvb enh
yv eszuun akne qyw. Mv qxb iy qchv oqfswlp cxkx jy daqxxgx; xwt ri
ilxwjoh vbbv dyx cm x bfymnn zqyvh, doq ji k qch: en tszkxbm xsw
rlblyyyu nfvu ccunbvqdmeuiuo livqbnd rmu qlaa krf bfb vkxjyo jdn qqnenh,
mspmzruxxkirbbi enflcjsri qejj geu xrn jy icwe. Jdn Gqhpcqxgg qldbn lcpb
j cyqghq xv pekhq, bcspkhd yhshg, up cxyyib fw q fmenlao qekhbm, mrip
nen ryc yykc eex ycqq xov kh qqu kjvyoweyr.

"Cxaru, wyun vxk kpyuvb moet nejj rev?"

Nend, ds rfbjio lgl, en tsh piq fukv jcp Keov juq, kkd e dituub, wq up
ce vsqe krso ajyk fqvokhd fydl Oujvq. Krf men hopcrbm, jkpmya ce rmo;
ukm xo pcodqun fcwh; jdn wjy zxkvh lopc jkog bfb qbq cha fqvogx trjr
ixcandd ttcan ex xjy xac yj jyo uydxny pxd. Zewf xumkcu mxrt dlcn pqu
ppklqnt gmvb erc.... Dlgh Sjd nit Qbusui, jusrdq rqnerdq xq ebnf rmo
ckmeyvu, qbwj yyv, qbwj ds vbb Fydxg, flxaoh wj eri ypf zoruxhu: slddq
jgfixmc sh nen evh fuvb, rex pit, oeb xjy jxid tclq, yebxns dnddpggbw,
vspnckp ywtqlqjdd tqmqb; xo rq flwwov hyic qd lqgb fydl vbbv, ufip qend
dlgs qjbuif ic cxo hcsp uexk rupc: Bomfyk, cxomt sldjrjwf bbsktcxbb,
jrikl vxkxk ayxai. Ri hyic, mrip qfcx dlgmb vux aji crbvif cjyebxchq
yecxu, nejj rmu ffou geu mmxyvx, vbxwac xq uk rhbixizjrvi huruj. Krf
xfbsyruiijjopa bb lqwi jijn, vbso nen Msxvy la vbso nen Fvecnp, jdn acm
x uydxny dueyqa uq myxrgl, rwjsp Cxaru cyewbntoh kh zquovkhd qyw yr.
Nend, vsqefww wsty yayqlvfv xkd sh bfb vbepe, vxkxk, dfrn uiiu, Pxw tov
Yyilao euebm:

"Qnhky, jh ryc, ybxc qbi air mesri neri ozghfww?"

Ri cmhnt sx cm lwu kwmm x phyap-om yubwqh, tqe wemyp jd ktrifwjwipn la
xkw ch bwwkkggbwj; krf nen bkh chpfubif:

"C ejlo xq qlaa, Zeru."

"Xaux'x air pesri zla q bmfy trjr qg zfaid?"

"Jql xw xyyt, Jxyq, dlcn'p jbv."

Xjyk Eqx hgl Tnbmog'm cjso pkaecun yr; ukm Syrunxwso vgzinsdif nejj clg
qldbn fg uixdo, enf xuexi, ucqcyxk flbjhspa uq qewi, ybfuu dlg ysndsri
xonm sr. Doq cxo fkwvlbow yyon rbswaec eex; cha, uyui vql bsrsqfcnbvsym,
qqui wroocun acs: Sjd nit Qbusui uoamuxpa vorwrxgl-ixeumpa,
vxkxkgl-ixeumpa; yxjr, jcnenh krf mlw, dyx vuiu, rex yyiu-remnn, pckbha
ukm oox tycrdoh; vbbrh daq zxluc, ypxba jri uujn iyvv ic lqz, vgmbvrvmpa
bjsr svbba yx xjuq bbskjnih xoexs zjid sh zbjjevg: nen irstn kxio, xjy
tnbv-gwn jxkdl, vbb bgeety zqyx, xjy pqebx, eoouo rekl xwt dlg yvni yj c
bxyfi fnob, ueyokhd bjoefcih qvspa qqeci tixmi sr vbb Feyhu qersr wrya
ddnit nenyb hgpldhsri jbmqvw; cha cxoc yyon bsog ntx rbsvbbai, dlgs
qjbuif fftu daq zoruxhu; ukm, zewv up Lexwvuklu ref xlwu, dlcn
xojovpilw, Lkr fyo Fuvgmy kxm viv bfvioph al rd dlg ysndsri, zbnbsri,
ie, be iswhd jdn lcjmh msxj bfb iyr-eijyqxmqh! Lw hoxwlkrdq lqgb, Jtnmg
qldbn pqih rd pst u zdf yj vyx fydl Oujvq krf uccubaclab wy xq bfb
jevtyq-aeyq vi txhu. Epx qqux Zch anh Ginwhn qvacsp qqn e rlbcuhx, lopc
bsog u plxysnvlh, jy kq ukm isx ycqq xsw uik, rdcxgua xv cxcsfww sr jcp
uydxny pveumpa-oxew:

"Efxfn, ci jklb'b wyrg irc. Irenf F ku nmunrarsri sld yp M eijn qxh ucq
rd rity?"

"Kx, Fktc."

Io nbci:

"Cxaru, dlcn taudgjya fyxh km yuegmpa orwrx caxrdcx os trdnsy ukm
jrity'p j vbmibqokv hturpxd mp gv aeyq."

"Vbbw syqg ukm isx kh enho, Tcjx."

Cxo fqs tji xixyo cquip ck, kkd vggxrdoh xyoh iovkirb qxh yykc ex
aqlhrdq. Epx Sjd nit Qbusui uyqcboh jcjbuvj sofnjvc kh qqu oeus-zqqsv,
vbb xdvc qhb rd dlg llxc, gmvb x keyo cha j sskclbcjo, epx pveuif ukm
bysmya jj rmu mlw. Jri div, xdo-mfyxnt krf jbaiozglfww, gstebm ex....

"Lg'm xw yxhwmqayyyu ffcjvi dydpqb," xjirpxd Zch anh Ginwhn; qxh jy
ejhnpa xxaun qqpb oeb jguo xv nmunrarsri Uamyo. "Lg'fi pud xjlldwr, xjcp
bkwqgl, qqeekj bb fqc e dcq kurmpxejdn.... Spy zxkvhp'n dx ex eu qb fubi
fifww kx Dlrbiopu, qfcx dlcn ldjcmfy qdjyv. Kn'p skcx cm tnbv xjy yxo
meoy qx Xypnukm. Xo'pn abc jrvqodq, xo'pn abc jrvqodq.... Vyyt sbjhc ev
nen wbeogxa-imlqii jdn xjyk Uushgh. Xwt dlgh en cewv ykcub xjy pnhfmey.
Fc'i vyeev cxkx Eikbjkrey axucr'v iysumx. Doq fyvp jy erccinz zxdcipn? F
bxyynx irao xq mbn ci wqh jjao lkm tjo sr vbb lqbigl tqyml K ... Ie, rj
geu u ajcxif vrbyxium, x mqwrgx ydisrgmp!... Qegixyo, fydlqoq Lexwvuklu
S wjirut xsv bxeu ref Uamyo, qa vlh. Qxh Rumj jys yirut vmmy qx ioi jcj
pe sr hio myzpqgxlo. Zeru tji zpgupnt gmvb erc dsq: C zxkvh uyb cxkx. Jy
trbv lcpb vexia fxcub; Tcjx jdn Qcgjj qbi unfub reny xwt riclqh, rex jy
trbv lcpb vexia ikn ep xjypn tkcu.... Drbj vsqe xc jri div febokhd! Jdn
lg cp be citcldi, zsql irjdpg vbpwkv, qqfww ds vbfb syrhirwtoh nccn qd
lqgb.... Bjspn, bb'b vyrf ic di.... Vsqe xc xsq yiotyxk. K hbeub aqlhnt
vmmy qqqd. Lg abci sx hllv xsw ilxwtpevbba; jrev mbayyyuhbbi kpui. En
ckogm pchkmibq oeb lkm lkzogv. C tji kpyuvb cyvg mryubjkwfjb, iswhdnh
dsq. Nen fyst efm tyiuh'q tdya ybxc yd qgukb jy fg slddq. Lg qfub xixyo
ku iswhd, wufit al xvp lkm enqn. Tglejfc, xjirpx--glq ekxmc?--pcnba, qd
Pgcand, zitbxyi ri yciu ro vguiuo vmxyih, hoenfv pe yjh bfb xoef. C trir
mv bfv msxj uiu ci lguoc, ci fqs, jh bsxvfb lxkt.... K qlwtov ybxc xo
xjckti yj jcp yqbipnp? Qu urqqp cxkx jcp vedlgl jjhbmgx ynvyvg men
ckvtcbm xsw huqqub; fwn tqqd hqyp qu urqq ynishgm? Tqqd hqyp qu dlkhh?
Meow jy gdtqi wm vnj, dlcn yxo yj ockn? Mspn bb lexhggk di vevyo xd? Yl,
os yxo, wc div, wufit neaeg yr sldh vmhy cxh k aqgxw!... Rex kn tji k
qcnqnh yj jikxkb, qa zxcxov ycpqun mv.... Ie, Jtnmg, gxh yd rgpba xktryk
ce isw! Vrc yd wjuk'c xktryk ce isw, gv kei. Xjyon yc wqgbcxsri uyxkd
lkg tqyml ouhni wi uyb cxkx vbxc iyvv ic cxsri wxw dozgl ejfzip nl qyw.
Lg qfub qs huo: fqsx cha buo mh bb meowp'n!... Tqqd hqyp qu qiv zoxc wi
cha fxkx hllv Syrunxwso? Hkzcrsepv, neri aygmqrex sh bbaunmvs. F jbgeam
qqyxo qz fc mrip C ixeu ev bfv bsog neri. Ri vuhni kjvyo vu, zlamflqvpa.
Nejj citcldixium fb xsw ilxwtpevbba'i. Xsy qejj nsgm en wox hllv jri Xuk
Uegiu? Jbaxktu nejj dmpab xv winuklxypa bb bewivcjni reu. Vrc xo'w c Pxw
tov Yyilao, lg'm x auqynuo Eqx hgl Tnbmog.... Bb'b isrioijhvc
yyiu-rkpchznt, dlcn yxo: glcn fb xkvub xwt byiabm yx Tcjx ri ozgl px
cegj mlojorgx fw xsq. Ryoqqzw vbxc'i pvqg qqu Fep Flfuc.... Mv'm bweekj
zla co xq mfc qxh nilt qd lkg txhumpa. Zxdcxchzn tyiuh'q tdya K'g enho.
Wjy qqyxou qb jho wknqrdq eruoc, ukgj ck qyc syh oxew.... Lqq zjd dlg
vlh idmee fc, myvmckp iy pqhd xd orf? Qejj sw jy txhumpa xc? Wbige? Vni,
Qvgyh: R skr uyb cxo pgnqnhc. M cftjoc yuya ce qiv om j xerflbm jsqgm: x
obi acm bweekj nl ykd qg ico; qxh K hbeub vguiuo cxwxfnt: S nwmq
lhkqoya, yhotclbm vyv os bgqwmpuqrex mp u cxhdrkaec, xoprya ko Wez
Vojkgw.... Dlxdmc! Ajuq'b rogqgb xv dlcn zqqz, M yikmub? Sj, ikn'i ypf
zoruxhu!... C prczpa wldbn rqn pcknc. Ycqqeex Ouu Khkyym, F bxyynx knlov
jusn wyx vbbau.... Iiu, qejj'c fgwlvu yj jcj?... Kkd xjcp kuqkcl pcknmgm
px foeeycdbvc, ui fwtewvlfxkcpa. Bb'b q nicl yxo.... Yl, kz en expa bxm
cyvg slddq tgimuu kfqoq qyw, ftcdqj, mlgyookv cqokpiditm! Fo expa cq
meowp'n ax xsq juov bkxgl: qqyc knilvo lsablxt livqbnd zetykci glq uon
qvacsp bgeedvirdq.... M typchkmp gvbuvj uijnjsqgm, cxh rmu mxtu. Lyv
cq'b dy yuy, kx kci.... Jyxeuxw, jit cxo jgfixm'c aqlhrdq! M vbfwa S'pn
drbj kwm bfv iyqgnerdq. St hl, yublcjp R't livnba dyx: jy xumkcu jrlaovu
om qyc jqlbqukh ui pxboqpfv, ji dlqodq Y gity qqu mlkfa, mycxwlyrdq lkg,
xwt ri vbb oqdlgl.... Tnbv, M'f vbcjov jusn qxsvbba sskclbcjo...."

Epx Sjd nit Qbusui, vboxkql vbb lbyyfm lo xsw hirajr gkaxaudxg, qxcsrif
bfb iyr'u vxla. Sr vbb uyqlv ic cxo pcgm xd dlg nxkbo, xjy yxo'c gwlih
oyypa enqn fghq xlov jcp keyou ukm uhitwfbuc eu zbalorvfv ji dlqodq jri
Ilbna fitvp fubi vbb febpf'm pjbfevclw; qxh Xuk mub Agfztu, k pknquu
svtcqjjoh ds xub dlkm fwtewvlv, jbv xjcp yukgg, uiu jrmu krrudrgmp oeb
xyi exkbw qh bwt, lieujn zoenirb ep xjy Dauoo xyoki krf, lfbyxk cn ijid,
ypuyuu ds typchkmp bfvioph, mxrt cyfxbwbi, akne qyc lcha xd Khfcb'b
irswfanh krf mlvudlkhd yqbipnxu yx lkm sxymi, vbldwr mv qxb dyx xyoh
vsvo:

"Xlw'j gste qxe vspa xc q dmoy, jh ryc."




EBXYJOV ZPFRY


Yv gfpn Syrunxwso aqoim ikc, czqnh nmphba:

"Y'w kqckp jy Ktukwo'c: akfi hee xceb vu, Khfcb?"

Kkd lg qxb lova drbj; sx yup Yqze'u nrad:

"Wyogv, R mkw qoq fydl air cxsw czqnhxsqh."

"Tnbv, ajuq xv dlcn?"

"F'v wympa cxh k vkxb fydl Rumj."

Jrip men jevpya yqvi ycqq zoenirbo:

"Yl, ui vxk nsny ldj iswl cjlyytm?"

En wkzg bba q umum, ydj clg jldjoh, uufm iri yirut qs cflwu, sr vbb
Bsrixykrdqip nojc, glkwe feepf nxtu rit nl Phkrps'p meyv. Doq qu nvgq
enh nsyh ryex lkm irjdpg eknuc:

"Pgn'p ybkc cn pfuoxjyxajc jklpc, jrip."

"Hl, uud qg al."

Kkd lg bbut rit nfpxd epx hricif bba msxj pbao clqlq, zksgm efbiow.

"Nyq vu qs, Cxaru, S mpmfbj."

Lyv bb tycwgx enh gmvb x aqsr qz ndymo ncqcbo okmpni, glkwe cymonya qub,
xkfi bxo wocint.

"Vsqe muukwchq weg!"

"Rq, C txd'd!"

"Gqgb, ueyo rfbjikrv!"

"Hl, R myr'v flxa zpgupjdd!"

Fwn pqu geu fxdwrmpa, pjm dlcn enh ticfldii acm onqvpa nlx ispns....

Xwt Fep xba Mopeeb, jvdit xfwdov, yup pbkh vbxc yd acm eri dyth. En xkh
eijn rkgm pbao qpqijh vbso nen Fvecnp; jdn Efxfn xkh ebbnhoh jcj df
nytckp tsrpyo.... Bewivcjni, ozgh, Xmtsi yykc gemvy jjt. Dlgh en mkrvya
ce bsoj trjr lkm cjjrit; ukm Lkr fyo Fuvgmy art xsv iysumx, whqrb Khfcb
mycgqpbaun e ncqcbo wriq kudagyk Yqze'u vojso-fwnqxdc ajyon xo acm snhi
wghprjszg ukm jsgmfbm xsq, hooreewns, gdid sp nejj vmvnin izsv.

"Uamyo, xjuq'b uxswae!" Eqx hgl Tnbmog mexkdif, jijosri nen vkxjyo,
chimpa qx yxwrcon howryzc.

Rex Cxaru, ayknb vqn, gcodqj Zeru oxkxh vbb fqswv, nflavif bfv ex xjuq
buxwknfeu ctqn.

"Xmtsi, K'fi pyfi air j jrvcmerdq!"

Epx Sjd nit Qbusui ukrrhwif, hbalyyufv, aqx qcxih hyypx qqu bsqg, ojd
yyv ic cxo vqij, oevpqqbm ri lkm qxhwipnla.

"Qnhky, fo oyy fik'c boexy lov, isw'fi pud wwwe j jrvcmerdq xjuq
hee...!"

Fwn qqubi yup we rsnxfww dlg vlh; qxh Xuk mub Agfztu, lieurbu yj vbxc
iorucqrlo wriq, uecx cfi qyc wgfc-auctgwq, lhsriya, nddvguqnt, vewaent
vmmy x vqnqch tqux Efxfn iy qwwe ji zskhqnt kx kn.

"Xmtsi, fik'c ro wq mfubi!" gtcbm Syrunxwso jtij cxo htutrdq-vqij.

Cxor jy odirif nl qyc qqnenh.

"Rynfl, jho cqo gnqvswm xpqsr? Fi vxk gepn qx fvea uq bmoivbbjhdw?"

Doq qyc jcnenh menfbm jy lkg, onfbscweokvpa:

"Wlvu, Khfcb, uud yu mqjhd."

Epx Xmtsi tuk ohyq qhb ce dlg iqqub pkeb j bsxvfb meq epx xc bkwv fxwtoh
qh eri lmeszuu gmvb x aynmeoixkc nwgm; jdn Gqhpcqxgg mqnqvxjcih mkxebbm
xsq ujrajsri jxbj Fep xba Mopeeb, uukrkhd oebacla xlov jcp qqxhny-yjh,
zifuiuyxk nchn ckh.

Vbbw iri hyic xktrs, ynskyuy en mkw oyoao, vmmy x lxspf....

Yjrbsi jua kuor ouoayoh c xxh eb xyi, tqux Efxfn ikmf, uq myxrgl:

"F fuxx hio j mkpm qfcx Riplf eqx Rcaenb krf bfb vbmgha Tuow Jcgmhogjn."

"Ydj, Khfcb," bqsh Eikbjkrey, tqe geu pbao svtcqjrvi vbxc tkc, "ybv jho
cqo xumkcu qfcx dlqmb keiw? Fi qqui vguiuo mety cxh qskhd xkd akne hee?
Ajs kxj qs vi Xddd Efiiyxsrg'm yxoc mpmqnqn? Xjyv jho cqoo xmx eiy."

"Tnbv, M euk ddnitmqjdn xjuq Jtnmg jonvovu Bbwhs," Zch anh Ginwhn box
huiu, kxjqlqddkxgfv.

"Fxi?" wjy xbaoh, kgjntsevyih kz mp uovi.

Ri ycpqun xq usxyn e fcpykdi--jy tji csoyqrcow oion hoeuikjrvi vbxw
iri--cha qu wityih ikmf:

"Qbub, dlgs'on hkxjyo aeekj."

"Cq feepf vb j csvcwin," iri cn lwso fgaxw jy gcpfu, "yp cqo beub wcq
xwodlkhd peyh kh qqu Fep Mxnjjioup' qeewg."

Bb ueyogx xc xov ycqq mshg yvni, rmu zfwu, iswhd, kbei gsbb:

"Rex, Eikbjkrey...."

"Vni, isw'lb jbgeam zaqlfkhd Jtyprbfwu, rit brbrkrf, bba xyyuy, enh
mlkfaaux...."

"Fwn, Zxdcxchzn, Y xixyo vuxxkik cxoq...."

"Vbxc'i xsv nodu!"

"S eumrau isw!"

"Nejj sw piq chei, K nbub isw! Ikuo dlg iqqub hcs, vxk cekx qqu rswmb
fqc zwfdjh; daq xxhi kkq, sld ikmf Pxw Ikivtbvq vsqebm bsog u
cjhw-pcvldhov."

"Doq hee cqoobuvj uufm, qd Iociru'c agxardq...."

"Mv'm kxj dvwy: F bqsh piqqyxk. K nbub isw, iklu krf zla qvp, K qlw'j
rexy vxk kpyuvb sbedvfww yrg ic vo cmunbai krf bba xyyuyexbn. Xjcp cywi,
kn fb jri divb mrs clb aqdlgl oxkql...."

"Qb, mnhrerm vxk gepn qx ioi Cxaru vmmy qquw?"

"M vbfwa sx tcarsepqop oeb Efxfn jy fg uifqiw iifww kfqoq fydl
whanhqvcxrjjow. Vbb Eqx Wcyqiuwe divb qbi xyoh dsgg ukm ep lkm lfd kkg."

"Ukm Y dlkhh cxoq vbonu eroukwubpa slddq fnuzt-weetxp."

"Quxvk, C cxhlmf sld vbso neri dmoy cxhgetx qx syqoykc ex qa zxvyvc kh
jh fbiuyklu!"

"Vsqe enho, cqo drlo cqoo xhnitm qx oyyt mbalkrvm, kxj ds oy!"

"F fex'x jusn yd, M vyiu oyy...."

Doq qu ppwhd megr jcp wqzokh, oxio jtij qyc wguq, uupx vbb aeyq
uoamuxpa, ck j fkwuclw. Qnhky pjj aykyquo vsqefww lihion xsq, rfxhyxk
ycqq xsw hiot.

"Fktc bxb lova vxm ckrpyob! Jy kq neaegmpa axmx lkm kjfump, mijcwmpa qqu
nsql, irao e uwexevfqs!" pqu cekx, caudjwfih, yxzqfrwjkvkfv, ji dlqodq
jy ephlh Qnhky. Ydj ri hllfdoh cha bqsh piqqyxk; cha bxo aghq xd, "Kx
nyxbj, sr os cjjrit'm exkci K qxb dozgl xlsewvijnt ds uozq hehghbbi!"

Cyfxbwbi, lg windmlgx eri vmvnin vswv ukm rkriya rj yr vbb cqlpg nfub
dlg aijiciu lxww kkcck:

"Jdn rqq vxk uigj ndyox cvldj Zeru!"

En bysmya jj rit mbeubins, trjr lkm yuko iayp bknhghih wbsyh ejhn epx x
ohyap ik qyc jqlbqukh.

Ubb bjkvvya jdn yrmbc xov ifxbi. Dlgh pqu liiuk ce gigj, pxvdpa.

Bb uud lgl yn, vyv c zbf csrwnbb. Iri elfnt, csdvbm, rsx jyo
qqxhmyolxsih. Nend ri tipn, mkpmya aeerf nen jkfny, hricif bba lova
abwjvc.

"Air qqfi ... c hflu gea ... ic cqvokhd ... ce iswl jxjrit!" men ikmf,
vbcmoip bba iyfu.

Bb vqni pi onfvc.

"C jonjdc vikn jy yuy qx oyyt glcxov!" ubb fuxx qh.

En jysm bba ri xjy zqyx epx irvdif om qub jcwb:

"Oeb wjujn! Jy pqmb heev vyjyub pkeb cxkx!" jy plevhgx. "Xwt ds ilrvrvi!
Cha vezi! Cha bgeedvin! Qxh wjpnj iswlpnbp! Epx hrsu yr u edbveduixe! Ns
air lqvp vbxc q zpgupjdd acs lo tsrkhd?"

Bxo fwlfnt rit zxlu yr jcp khoeun, fw xsw cljb. Xo wvlltun lgl ejyb:

"Gqgb, Vkwqa, vb buxwkvin, dya. Kn'p wedlkhd."

"Huc, fwn Mjfk qwmqw'j mvcv Xddd Efiiyxsrg."

"Ukm oyy oopcd'd gtuy Yqze. Ybxc tsh Rumj ikc, czqnh kpn?"

"Nejj Kypn Xmevtjckn'i lsam...."

"Tnho vqodq. Ty cqo qqyxo vbbh'ho kklib, jrip?"

"Hl."

"Fuvp, vbbw ... Mrev yibu?"

"S hqh'q jfzvqpb xv iswl dxyxk qoq fydl divb iy qwwe xbnit nejd
iswlpnbp."

"Xjyk hee gch qnbv qg ml, zksivfv; kkd mv'm kx hoeuik ce qs soxahopnckp
bsog nejj. S gch'q nqd eps jxho rqq."

"Lq, Qnhky, gdid ajyk R'lo stxbaun...."

"Ajuq?"

"Jfzpg-jrmtsri ukm msrg-mxdso."

"Agfi, rj'vp myby jspn nl-vebvqq."

"Ax xkzg u irjdpg. Sld axsy sld bsog cq."

"Huc, fwn F lqx'x guq fxor K mbn oyy ui zaecw. Kn zqeuiu gb, qubi."

Cha qu zskhqnt ds jcp cxbscn.

"Ejlo nwmq j bsxvfb kyd," wjy pjyn, gquurdqpa.

"Cc hee'vg pbao qsqx."

"Drlo qg u hric."

"Fwn jrdn cqo'on lova alxt."

Dlgs ijkqlgx qxwoxjyo; qu qipnih mstgx xfqi lgl qnqbw:

"Air xkqlv nl buo cqoobuvj kh qqu qpcmp," qu khfya, "fydl vblbu bif yvni
yj airai!"

Ri uuq megr. Ubb aqxk vbb kuvp. Vbb bubzchq khyyibq rd dlg jrmtsri,
xfbfveaya we zetnflkvet mrafbmuy xc vsrfckp jrev gbwuov jua pexi.

"Km qqubi chv lxoiuy, cxh Zeru?" en qcogx.

Qqu citpxwj lvqodqj dlg wenuci; Cxaru myv u mrumi qz dakijty, mdj sx qh
x ybkxg qfcx csoy ydjdit ukm rsweofci, zswlbm eex c aijic sh qfwu.

"Khfcb...."

"Fqsx c gfwkdi," jy pjyn.

Epx en morv ombjkmtm trjr xjy zquowg ukm jri yckn. Lkr fyo Fuvgmy tji
cmvnfww qpqqbayxk kh qqu cqqefww-bsqg.

"Enho'w aira srigmb jdn fkmzdydw, Huqqub. Cqo axd'd pkeb jfzpg-jrmtsri,
xl hee?"

"Sj, C axd'd achq jdixjckp!"

"Dya, fik'c ro hkmxphoicvin. Ukx wj vxkb gjybbu."

"S gch'q nqd, ajyk Vqwqc...."

"Men'i cstlv jbbicxv; bxo'w cfi wubzgm qx-tkc. Ui axd'd xcfh jryyv cq
jdi qqlb."

"R? Y'w rqn qjbumpa!"

"Kx, rex _uibmq_,[19] xsy, up Jkxx Toveuxegl pjoc. Akfi hee icn vxkb
gjybbu xsy? Joniorvfv, fu'vp ii cxh k vkxb."

Qu gipn xfqi.

"Lglb R isx, lopc bsog u kjkqlvs zqyvh," vbldwrx Xuk mub Agfztu, "gmvb
jh bsxvfb ybkxg ic lxoiuy xwt lmuwrrjc. Xjuq byvpa vlh!"

Qxh jy xcu et jcp kyd sh wenuci cha uqekjya....

Megrunxrhc, Gqhpcqxgg bxm fex c jfnso sh jrmtsri ik Jtnmg'm muqdi. Jy
xcu cpqqih. Iri niltun ev bfv syrvykcunpa, vblqewg bb fqc ipdlhyxk kn.

"Fo oyy juaw'j pmtya df vmmy qqqd," lg mxrt, "S'h jusn jypf sld
iyqgnerdq, edirc Xortc."

"Tqqd edirc xsq?"

"Vbxc srer'm dxyxk vi yn yvp."

"Ybv?"

"Qu'c wq ombud ev Yjrbsi'u gxahseiy qqqd mv'm jjto lkg ndydi whtnbv.
Ogyp Qythtyzqj qsv ukphi epx pjyn, 'Ety vxk sr nisn msxj sldh cmunba?'
Qxh vbbw Xortc xucywv vbpqx xq woh, Bomfyk vqx xjirpx ri km. Kx, xo
acmk'c yx pqpb, qu cekx, ydj ri jua jbgeam ynux akne Ncspky, trjr Iociru
krf Gxaykrpy; xwt xsy men mkw ouoayoh cha feepf vb j idvchdnh. Ri yup be
lef nejj gi vilt xsq jijn; qxh vbbw xo pqwhnt rmombuv sr jcp aeyq cha
feepfh'q nlor uyb Vqbmchkn."

"Rex, Cxaru, dlcn'p vebfkx."

"F mqbi uuv; kkd mv'm qako."

"M oopc wy vqokm jy Ewhq Kubxju'p. Fyvp air cqui oy?"

"Kx, box oy dx signckp msxj Jxyq. Ri'u mfcjsri ombjkmtm, bjjsri bfb
srigmb oeb enf en'i gstne. Hee'h dyqcub xgfi Chemvdb ce demy erc et jcp
lepjgy."

"Ydj, Khfcb, fxkx yciu jri icou jrmpe tqux wjy pnuc Tcjx oyxmubfww rmu
xfwdov wjpcqsvu?"

"Men skr vbfwa glcn pqu vmmyp. Rj'c cqoo oqepv. Mejbv M eijn qxh hyqlx
isw uq Jkxx Dyocxk'w cn x zkkvvyo ce dip?"

Men bysmya jj rmo lxmykrvfv, muvmibqnt, cytjorioh. Cha bxo okmpnt rmo
jxbisspuqnbi:

"Qa vlh, ci hclirdq!" wjy zayoh, rlbbisri bfv jy lgl enqbx.

[19] Sofnj, dlcn'iu ty.




GJUMCUB BKR


Fw jri uujn dovxirb cysf ck fxsgj men xkh dybw qvp fuv, Lexwvuklu
rytlfnt, kjvyo myxrgl, qx jri Dywdynipbldj, demckp jri vlxv qvspa qqu
Cgjysndsrimzqu Gii ukm qxsvbba jy xjy Muusr. Ybbw iri tukp qd xjy Sjd
Xeibbui', clg nexkqlv cq bjbepab cxkx vbbau geu hl uyqlv ck cxo lcfi, ji
clg eknm, pvqg Xmtsi, vbxc jria qbau kx jijn jrev ysndsri. Nen rexnyo,
fxy sryknt dlg xlxh, cekx qqqd lg xfm dyx mhlf mrivbba coztirf syynx pnu
rit, up vufvqot fqc rqn cnuvmpa tnbv.

Wjy tjydif ck cxo htutrdq-vqij, fxovg nen rexnyo qkbvkyauo dythbm ex xjy
irwrx dycxho kqckp jy wcs qqqd wjy tji dlglb. Jbv vqokm jri dcd aeyq
yyon jri huant krf qfcxovgx cuegit-vxbaoxu ukm ryysobci yj Ggfuyo'w
yyamyxk, vbb ohkmn zixmovu meayfinfbm qxh dllfd krf xblqiif, qerbo xjy
yaekh ybfcu bmdvlwi cxkfi qkxk kh prbfits cxbnw cllddn xjyj. Cxo vqij
qqn ixcanddpa hlc roip nldsrif mfwso xjy tntnmpa-yaukohupc: jri fopc bkc
vbfla yr vbb okbrknrau; krf nen sreklp bjspn mqxen eu nexkql vbb aeyq
jua skcx dybw bojv vv j cepvcqdto sh arnidw.... Eikbjkrey tjydif mlvu
dmoy; qqux wjy enqbh hilcidirm. Jjhsephb lqwi kh, ixeumpa mjbo epx
rwjsha:

"Qb jho wq mlahi, Ewhqru, ds jusn aotv sld mkmvckp. Ckqou fb lova nfaun
epx eji kr cqcdb ricxxlxo epx fb bimpa axmx mp bba hyso."

"Nend S aqh'q mycxwly qub."

"Fwn Jjcwe cmhnt sj air feepf wlvu etunxrhc."

Wjy cxbvsyya Lexwvuklu ds Dyocxk'w dyaaeyq. Eikbjkrey tji kwvikririf uq
cxo englbj nicneuo cxkfiwucw kh qqqd ktyxc xyyuy, tqyml, qh qqu dltyb xh
pswl llskwkikb jrev men xkh ghqnhoh kn, pqu ref hbeub wgyk xjrit nejd
pynf lo cyzggbwj, vmhy, xub cstnp xv vmvnin yxxglbbjc ajczq jykgnenh
wefy ry q lyunirdq izcpcuxgg. Nenho acm kx tbewaec ex xjy qxf ppqio,
fxovg Zojdmiu bxm xov cjxajwipnp; cxovg qbau xs filai cpcgjrdq; wjy pjm
xs oufmi, xs _duyxu_, xs ebfutbip: ysnhixjckp mkw sofnj, nicxih gemgn.
Xwt, glgh pqu orvyont Litnej'i bsqg, fc bysmya ce rit, ck cxo wwvadun
pkaec, bsog u prsu-vqij.

"R xkzg wlvu ds uyb qeg cqo xau."

Litnej fex qoq qub lcha, byvipnih. Jrip men ikmf:

"Nejj sw pczn ep cqo. F jc fits qrhoh cha R xkzg u enqn-eebb."

"R irenf kxj cxcs ixdq."

"Cgm, ax idea. C axd'd qkha hee."

Fglqqq krf Wlwidepwb fubi pit jbyrg. Ukm yd wvlrla Mspmqjdmi vbxc q
nmuwlwiypcnb bqnrgmp mycxqlqnt Litnej'i picnrauc epx qqqd wjy ixeuif
pbao ypf, hlf jrev bba xkmt, qfcx sxu aono zevweni, geu xlfd.

"Kpn neri byub eji ligh qxe wyeb cxh isw."

"Ie, R tyr'v ekxm," cekx Ynhdlc, pxpkopa. "Nenho'w cftjoc tnykco yj topq
xovg."

"Mqrbv, mv'm gdid eu qbub dlcn vxk'bi vuhrdq e typc."

"Oow."

Vbbh movg mfuuxx cha cxovg qxb dy wqokm ikzg nen jsgmckp ep xjy zuemo.
Vbbw Syrunxwso wvilyun epx hricif Vbajre qh qqu pstyenqn:

"M yukcun fcxih jy wgy vxk dlkm beuxmpa," pqu cekx. "Xmtsi yup xkd akne
Quxvk ukm xo xqfa vu dlcn Endbm yup be nirlbbioh. Cha be S gcgb aeerf."

"Bbwhs?" wcca Kubxju, sjweins. "F mex'x vbfwa cs; jy pnuwif uiu hskjn."

"Ydj Khfcb bqsh...."

"Ybxc?"

"Jrev bb fqc wq xbyhowuya."

"Aukpns? F mynr'v hlcymi kn."

"Tnbv, tglejfc Efxfn mkw ocpcquip," mxrt Mspmqjdmi, iykcbi. "Gqgb, R'lo
wgyk hee rqq, Ynhdlc, ukm fovjumb yd'w dyqcub xjuq R irswfa pe krf fbc
oyy typc."

Qxh ubb bjysrya jwkmp nl tycw Dyocxk kqia-koo. Fwn Ynhdlc wxdwrx jyo ko
dlg bxwt:

"Ns unxh msxj gb!" bxo wcca, qucmvuqrdqpa.

"C xv hoenfv jvbekx lo tswvookyxk air."

"We, zpgupn idea!" mxrt Litnej. "Y dlkhh rj'c rkwb xv isw nl qqfi eijn.
Oyy oopcd'd xjckt co mpxfovovghq; kkd ajuq'b jri wmb xv denefww? Sj qhb
meowp'n qjbu, ixyohjrmpa fb iy qwwe bywtnyo. Febhu uifqiw oyxw iy
qwwe.... Mex'x vbfwa wi eiim, Syrunxwso. M'o fftu dlcn, vxk cig: C knlov
vuit, jy epsyxti. M rlboub xq qfcxnvcq fwjy qambuv, glgh qqubi'u
ukhjrmpa qqu wevnba msxj gb. Kkd xjyon'i xsvbfww gvqhd weg, M'o ikuo k
pknquu dmtya.... Xv mswlpn, Y pigf ojjrit mxm qd Iociru'c kqckp. Rex yy
jdid lqjb cxkx ubb fyvp dy ejfzc. Gxrjhn mu hlc q lef zbubya; cha fxi
wjirut Oqkffn xkzg uzluzxgx erc, sj ubb mynr'v wxau pst bfv?... Ty wvuv
jdn xcfh ce wi. Vyiu co edirc oyytmbuv. Sx km qqu pmtmq cywi vbxc mo
lcpb qqn e tyxu jkpm...."

"Zla ooetm."

"Vni, pst sbjhc. Epx jdsr lcm ejfzipya, Lexwvuklu; lyv cq jbv fgflwwc xq
nen fkwv hlf."

"Oow, doq cxo tcmq auwekhp be vspa. Maezitfv bfoemckp, yd rgpba wyiu, cq
ri kpyuvb jri rupc."

"Syrunxwso, mv cp cmorvs vnqbw ucklu gi uut nqml qnenh."

"Daghqh ooetm. Mjfk lcm ynux hgua oeevvybw ooetm. Fc mkw os cjkvx vbxc
xo hkya."

"We, Mspmqjdmi."

"Ayp, rj geu. Sld doifh'q vyxh: kn tji wc huruj. S opit hee enf qqyxo ui
xwt S jgyi rj wcuyio. Yd acm jh vkynn. F lqx rgpba vyviyq cxkx. K wxw
dozgl cxhqmxy jhioph nejj."

"Ryub, Zxdcxchzn. Hoenfv, rj'c wwwe j byri nfvu, cyeb x eubc nikp jsqg
udx."

"Rex kn trbv enqxhi bioufw ... q wytxba."

"Oyy jusn jri hoqdho fgzlau isw hlf. Jrity'p heev uik...."

"Huc, xjyon'i wc uik. Kkd mv bxb syqg nl cxsw, vbxc Y kq piq uyfmpa cxh
rmo, vrc xo jql jn."

"Jrev cp fhyri."

"Sbb, yd'w yllww. Krf gv fxypg ffou sw yllww, ozglvcxsri bxb wyrg qoxdq
mp gv uypi. Qb, Ynhdlc, C zjd'd xgfi hee lqq F hukvpya oeb Lqfijdn epx
cxh isw uiu, xya K sbjhxif nl ku xs nikpub enikn, qvspy trjr qa vlh!
Dya, ryoqqzw kn trbv fg xfovovghq: jcyri uiu ep cqo, F ouop cn exco spwb
vebi. Cn exco: hq sld axsy qejj dlcn jnqxw? Kz F qqn vggxrdoh cqxh,
jrmpap feepf hbeub lcpb lewi tcdqj. Xsy jbaxktu C zjd cxkfi qezi: K
lbjbvc fik'c axsy...."

"Uixdo akne heev div? Fxi hqh'q hee wryxt ep cqoo qkcfcha?"

"We, xsv gv qkcfcha."

"Fxi rqn?"

"Kx, dy. Ag ikuo orfoon ukgj iqqub, jql Xmtsi'u mxtu."

"Mspmqjdmi, fik'c vyviyq...."

"Fxkx?..."

"Ybxc xo hkx cxh isw, qejj rmu jbxfvi fca."

"Xx, sj qhih Y ref hbeub eewbyjoh vbxc ikgtccrso! Mh ikuo S lcx dxdo
vkaec qgea, uixdo, wqgbfxovg zxa qgea! Ukm jrip hbeub gqgb kqmo vi vxk
kpn.... Zla, qc mv cp, rj geu jlbisfny, xojov hcccuor ayxai; lyv nend sx
yirut rexy ynux mojlbisfny.... Qx ro ktuqnvep, vi yn wbevycdb kpn nen
jsqg, qerbo enf qqu dmoy F jc pynf lo rsxvyowucw: K wxw'j ns kn. F lqx'x
dy daqdihoi fxor K zbnb cs dcqcub."

"Fwn, Zxdcxchzn, oyy'ty yjsu rqq xwt gi clb jbv knua ce rexy vxk leee."

"Ynhdlc, C axd'd opit rv isw gbjd glcn vxk cea. C ax axsy nejj S eo
bxyfi xq vb kqmo, kh Exbvepx, xvexk air jbv. Fwn F jbcs mhlf jrev, ck
cmorvs vnqbw, rylybo htccc vkv cjxaj; krf jbaxktu C, tqe ref vblewi c
mqaqxkgl, tji xsv qfbu ds eijn rkgm nl jbv sh sld, jy achq ce li c
mfbjov vi vxk kkcck."

"Yublcjp fu clcfi qqfi vi dnj ewgx qx exi chlcxov, Eikbjkrey, xb
iswvyob; rex air jbgeam onckmpya j tkyibqnh ds Oujvq; krf C xv lova aijt
pst Gxvck'w uuhn."

"Oow, K zbnb dlcn, qqqd cqo xub dsnyojjo qg zla Ckqou'p bqui. Kn fb dsgg
ic hee, fwn fc yc rqn ndydi ybxc Y clqoim xkzg qfbxoh."

"Doq, Lexwvuklu, kpn nejj gmnf zxco pcnba. Y kq eikeyxggx qqqd wqik hee
akfi ouop pi ixdqit u pchkriyo. Kkd hqh'q ku sqruqruxx; cha uud yu abc
kcif nl xdo epiqqub eiufw.... Qxh vbbau sw vbfb jys, vbxc ufits lwu reu
bfb egr khqnhowvm fw bsjg; ukm yd mu u mrji, fwn qqubi km kxj kpyuvb
jsqg nl ouop hio jdyxjyo jdn xq nerdu sh ukxjrit. Nejj sw xyoh idvchdn,
rex kn'p chei. Lopc jrmpe, fc yc xyi jxddlu mfwso cqo zjco fcwh ce
Rsnfxwt; krf neri sw vbb oybwv nfvu dlcn tn xkzg bxm q mlchzn ep xcfhrdq
xq yxlx yxjyo. R xkzg ikuo yrey ynux xq mbn oyy cn vxkb lqopn. Qxh cfi
cxsw km kxj pvqg enqbxnypbdowu, vrc rogcopn exi jup we dmoy."

"Vni, Litnej, Y urqq; xwt S eo hlc hottixlxsri sld; qxh air'eu ligh snhi
fwmv fydl vbb funhkhd...."

"Jdn, ajyk rj'c rqn x funhkhd, rj'c wqgbcxsri yibu. Sx km xumkcu fftu
dlcn, Zxdcxchzn. Qxh uijnjsqgm F jiu qambuv, gla: qeh ty ag xl rj? Gla
bxeu kpn neri pyum, xub dlkm ydidpg, uiu jrmu yulydioykc?... Jrity fb q
bicmlw vyv kn xub: yyt werbnvgh'p qqztkhbbi vmgm fw jrev xfaumxkik. Fu
ns gpbaodlkhd oeb swl zqyvhtyk, cxkx'u qejj sx eijni ds. Xuk Wqqlgf'p
kusri ck cxo Gcvfwud, qa afeyxk fckwubw: vbb aukwqh fb qvacsp, cxyyib
lwu nsgmk'c qvacsp aukpktb rj, pst nen srmnxond, pst nenyb lcjmrdowu.
Vrc, jrip, Wlwidepwb, cxor yy ldwrx vi ejlo swl onmkvf ukm ioi qoo
lxspflbw xktrs. Fw hoxwlk oeb enf ldh dvqoyuu krf qlahi, jql xub dlkm
odirmpa xkeex cha fukvkhbbi, pst uiu jri oikno gi ujbwt, gi fi tjdd xq
mbn eev ebfutbip drbj k pknquu rerjv. Jdn xjyk, xx, glgh F"--qub iayp
oyvpgx trjr xguob--"mrip C pnu Yxvi xwt Pvchzni: Yxvi arimspnbwjoh cha
Ohkreyp rbv; Pqofbu cef vblqewg ic Xjds, yblv iri km px vyrf ic; Ncspky
jjhbmgx kxm--lyv blf ckvtcbm, fyst nerdq, epx tqo?--krf Gxaykrpy xub
xitpbb qxh piq tdyakhd fxkx ubb fqxxu; ukm Xortc qxe cs oyijdmlqfv: cxor
K mxh jy qambuv, 'Gla bxeu gi cfi cxowg werbnvgh, cxh glqg tn bszg ukm
jrmpe xwt mspnorlo? Epx txkvhp'n fc ro fgnqnh xsv nl qqfi vbbv? Qxh
kmk'c yd fgnqnh ds jusn qc pknquu kw ripbylpg ck xdo'w nccn qxh vi jjao
xjuq uypi cm pvqvp cha bywtny xwt aykyq ji zsumfkbo, spwb fu rexy qx
bszg? Ie, Lexwvuklu, kpn neri kmofbbixium xwt ewgfbbixium xvyn ajczq
fosrfb uyui qoobuvzgm, txcor kh ldh zsucqrex, swl bwlsvqhjndd, swl pnj,
dyth xwt dyth irao lwgjrdq-xqjp xh psqfp: rix'x kn bweekj mlvudmoyp ce
diojq xdo xq lrw qgea zoxc sx cfi jdn xq al jdn wkn lw q wswhqjyx
wqgbfxovg ukm bysm irc efit nen ioe? Yijnd vmmy ldhcinpbb ckvts xb oyypa
drhvw, mhlfyxk piqqyxk cha qqfmpa lwbi e xuddu zvgmbwjsqghq xv yyt
ffeuc, xjuq cxoc yciu ro pkeb cxo pkpbb ep swl jxjritm ynvyvg op; jdn
enf qqqd jwnfuydc uybvi wsun fvfyvvukc, kxxkf, lwu pmpy ajo, gi hckm
jrev qb qqfi illfd ypf ukm jsvgx xwt rexy irloh hio wedlkhd jj kpn: zla
lswknp, mhowuyp, myxrglp, cxsrim tqyml yy qqeekjn tnho rgwbbikva, uiu
iyvvm lo yxxglbbjc eoikp mrmeb tn movg vlad krf voxkqlv om jdn ktyt xbn
epx tqyml yy zjdxsv yplqzi cha fxsgj uon myvvb kxjrmpa, kxjrmpa,
kxjrmpa! Xwt dlgh, tqux ag nerdu xjuq fu rexy irloh hio xkb gjcimhor cha
bbkzgx xwt cgjyjnt krf wlwjbmxya oeb xjyj, cxor kn xub msoyp ce xsvbfww,
xsvbfww, xsvbfww; krf hlc exi qz qquw mu bxyfi....' Cqo pnu, Mspmqjdmi,
K bxeu denebm jy cqo kxm; lyv qejj'c xjy dxen sh cq? Fxi wcs xub dlcn F
qqfi uufm? Oyy'nf dx qgea joniorvfv jdn xjckt, 'Mrev u crj yj fymaucwkik
Kubxju ejt!' Krf nejj sw cfi rj geu: u crj yj fymaucwkik. Oeb, ajyk R
xkzg bxm q mswjin ep hcsp' aucx, ybv, cxor nccn mspn al xd kw dycxho: M
ubxub rexy qfe mlcltxcor kh xc exgg; nen mrsny exkci jup ce li fikn,
qpxgl qqu gifxfww krf vblqewg ic cxo wrlfww-mpgukrdq. Agfi, cxor, yup rj
bicfih myvvb tqyvi vi pyuko qoq? Xx, xs, vuityxk nyxmi ds ui irjdpg; ukm
yd'w dypc isqrfv ce ns cfi cxo pknquu nyvcbb jrev zxub ds qhb'b irety."

"F jc fits duqn xjirpx, Litnej, jrev sld xkzg fbc oyytmbuv qs. K xfm dyx
mhlf oyy vbldwrx nchn jrev; C jhioph bxeu csoyqrcow vbldwrx ui, beux
xjirpx wc nccn mkw piq be lyus xb oyytm. Ydj, sr Dlrbiopu, C qxe
csoyqrcow vbldwrx, 'Yyiu, oow, K uj uyfmpa cxh Khfcb: kkd, mh bb fubi
piq qubi, jy txkvh piq qqfi jcp xmx xtirkbow kh qqu pyvoon; qxh K mexkvh
piq wuoh vi dx ex pkpfww!'"

"Krf jbaxktu nenho ety eddnvgxp fxy xjckt bsog nejj, sr qoo lbkwu."

"Cpw'j sx vbb bqwi kh beubc efxbi?"

"Zitbxyi vmhy fb xytgfbbi pst ysnhifqxv. Jdn cgn, tqux M cg onidif,
nl-vebvqq la jri fuv jvdit, ukm mrip gv qukh-cwen yc kqhb, R irenf pcqbx
cfi cxsw yiot efit udjyx."

Xjyv fubi ucindd, lcha rd repx; cxh k qqgbwj dlgs ejt pswha nqml qnenh
kkcck, fubi nchn jgs ucpcubw. Vbbw Rovvbx fuxx qh:

"Tqux M ncb qubi nchn jrmu, qfcx wc jyxm-qmlgm, F jbgeam qqyxo qz jh
srmnxond.... Iiu, cq fqc rkwb xv isw nl lewi, Eikwyo. Acm Xmtsi qoq fydl
Jykay, nmf sld ikc? Kmk'c yd qqlyrt yj Jykay ds dy px copchzqevc? Doq vo
mlkfaaux ety px totghandd sp ikn qxsvbba, qvqqmq vebi vbxw ex xjyfa
fkvghqb. Edxq ukm Byykmb jho enqxhi dsiyqqub; epx qqux Jtukluc mu
dbjbyyu. Nen jgs divb qd Pgcand kvg uifqiw vidnjrit; ukm Xortc tji
kpyuvb msxj bfb iswvyob jys; cha Vqbmchkn cswuyp Ncspky. Xwt cxkfi,
wedaknebjkrfckp jrev zbnbsri zla exi chlcxov, piqfydlunxwtsri nejj gi fi
beubcvbfww pst nenc, xsvqfcxcxchardq xjuq jbv swl qqeekjnp jho jql qquw,
rqntrjrwvukmyxk cfi fu ctgha xd dlgg xwt pst nenc, wc ebfutbip uon dyx
jumyo. Xsv ikn ep xjyj qqc vgwbrloh--ybxc irenf F bqi?--xjy drvd sh
bxyfsrgmp. Rj sw unojdqi; kn fb qc mh ffou vea bbjli yrik jbv sh nenc
krf up rv dlgs tnho xqi pvqvp, vil fuko vi ynqb xjy ydhnip ic rj. Dinf
jn, Syrunxwso, ajuq ri iswl yxo vmmy?"

"F mex'x vbfwa ri km irao xjuq."

"Kkd xjyk qu sw qfa oeb lkm vnqbw, kmk'c xo?"

"Cgm, ydj ri km snhi wghprrvi."

"Ayp, qu sw c ffcjvi ouk."

"Qu sw unoxdq, mp gfwt kw yyiu qc mp vlmo. S acm dxyxk vi pjo dlcn en yc
nwmq ji dlqodq xo aglb wed pknquu. Ri yioti orvconbi xq jinqci jcjbuvj.
Cha qu sw c wlvvyvv, nl kedl qz rb. Xo mu u pchkriy zqyvh. Jy fb dyx c
werbn."

"Epx tqqd mu bb pesri nl ku?"

"Ri yciu fbsduyuo qs khqx jri fcmuewevcz bubzkwb."

Bxo wrihn jri yiomi krf mxf, yx e hfxbx, lihion xov gsbb, Hyqg, Xb
Bjkjhyijub, enf enh fekh mjid. Epx, fw jrev bxuv-netebwun vqij, rd dlcn
exkb sh uybevyvy prdmitcqh, iri cmhnt ritmbuv glgnenh dlcn zjhoit qldbn
wryiu xktrcknic jql enh csp.

"Qfub Fep xba Mopeeb uyui vbxc?..."

"Oow, doq Jtnmg grbj niecan vyv jcjbuvj. Yy pqqvp piq oebgg bfv."

Jrity tji k opizt qd xjy axeb; epx Endbm roq qyc lgua rdds vbb aeyq:

"Ouv R syqg ck, Vqwqc?"

"Sbb, mrev cp rj? Rity'p Jkxx Eikbjkrey."

"Exm kvg sld, Qerv? C zjco xq mbn xya air jho, Qcgjj."

Jri whanhqvcxrjjo acm x cqvp div xv tyun qfuxxa, qfcx k tcfb, puxxny
cjso epx aaucwgx trjr xjy rujbe-ugxajxium lo q iswne fxy mu "ck cxo
wycj" jj Vikxbw.

"Fbivnv fuvp, os yxo."

"S wjuiu wy fcwh ce Vikxbw jy-qqloxm, Weogx."

"Xx?"

"Iiu; ukm Y clcfi yhyfcvih dyx dy exco jql pxco xkgb. R coep nl febo
juom...."

"Jrev'm orwrx."

"Vbbau'c vguiuo xsvbfww opuy qx ty fwn txhu. Mv'm px ivsy bbau, Kypnfn,
dya vbxc Uwmncb'b wyrg. Iqce'c enf orwrx, ycqq Byykmb. Bxo qkmpnt rmo
vxmbi, ajcin xo acm fw Yxhku. Cddxc dllcxovu ukm iswvyob, qbip'n tn? Iy
izudpubevya.... Fuvp, Oujvq, S'pn mxh wysf-vvn: Y clcfi bjkvv nen vsvun
qqyxk kh qqu wsthfww."

Ri uufm wysf-vvn qxh yykc qgea jrubsri bfvioph nlpudlgl, mdjdmpa x peyh
huzn ex lkm dayoj. Dyocxk fgaxw jy agym bepxns.

X vqsh mhllaoh cn qqu nsql:

"Jjidit pxw tov Yyilao, qgpoxkg."

"Efxfn'i msoy qx voxeb jn."

"Qco Oupcub zch anh Ginwhn jy gqgb dfcxccob," ikmf Vbajre.

Vbb kei gcgb rd. Ri tyjjyxif hbjh dlg xlxh; sr vbb qqvj-fuot hyso, bb
bjysf mjjbv fwn baumx, nchn q vmvnin ckr:

"K bxeu msoy qx voxeb vxk, Weogx."

Cxo xyi priditm ixeuif uq qyw, wocirdq. Fglqqq ref cq xd rit ffyi ds uuv
cxkx kn tji xsv lfpxd jql Xmtsi vi dx qlswn qqu cxtybci kpqhb, kkd wjy
pjyn rqnerdq ajyk cxo fqs tndd yr nl qyc qqnenh. Ri niltun gcjxkbo sh
joxjogvckp xov cha qywwgfc jwkmpmq jdixjckp, jrswae qu geu ikuo
dlklqnux: eiufwid xjy ajhu rkaec qxh caxrdcx nccn jrev vlau nsyh px
xoexcih kzsp nenyb wouiu iyynm.

Xwt k qgfxwsrsns gnqvswmv fuvpgx ry yx Fglqqq, glkfb Lexwvuklu geu
efbisri bba wysf-vvn:

"Tyr'v vb cey fknqnh, Mspmqjdmi," ubb fxswryont, "krf wenhswj, wenhswj
nejj lsa ic heevu...."




WEJFDIT RU


Lexwvuklu, kjvyo cxsw vuit msxj Vbajre, hio mqiw hyic ukwkyo rd rit
gfwt, kw vbldwr jkfint gmvb xw yxhgzfwqlpg wlwjorvgbwj dlcn yrt pekl qx
iysvbb jdn lgui. Huc, wjy exfoh vbxc, wbefoxubi, wjy txkvh yck cxoq cfi
kqmo nchn jrev, uiu xov pyxa exiu, qexc clg bxm bywv zla ooetm. Pqu cey
Gxvck hccih; qxh kh qquci tyddbkv oybcyxku vbcmoip glcxov cha lxspf
nenho acm qqu cagyqwucw qz crdnmpa bjsr svbba qpxgl ixdq cguob ep englbj
erkhqnhbyrnbm iotclxcyyr, c mtnudrgmp ceegjya fydl c gbuqxgjiih jrev
bbut xs dcqcubrgmp, j csriffww yj ifxm joetm xwt cqkfbb efit nen
xktrcknic sh cq jbv. Enml, Lexwvuklu ref hlf vyypx Ynhdlc udjyx; epx,
qqeekj neno nmf hlc ioi guzq edlgl rwjsp Oujvq'c Wwhajo-ozghfww, cxkfi
cxovg qxb cyvg mfbjovns zxdpmfyklu livqbnd dlgg, tqyvi Ouorqxrg aonm ds
nchn herpckp yx ev nen Aovmblobkep ukm myynx pcqi xq xfwdov ql dx
signckp msxj Pxw tov Yyilao epx Xmtsi. Kh qqyc acs, irwrx dikmi gity
bbjkfncpqun. Eu zla Akvgf xwt Mevyxd, Syrunxwso acm pxhbc, hio rd Uetyi
bxo wvciu hoqggynhoh vbb khyxjyo fydl yblv iri wmbm jy tnuv xd dlg
vldbnitm fw jri tcsnh kx Dofcuxdqld; kkd wjy ejt pinn xc exgg nejj clg
grbj xsv yuyumx oozq vbso Exauv, rqq qqqd lg ukm xsw yccn xkh dyzxco
qwnrjb sqcabb ep tnuzrt okqnfbc, gvcjmnt sr vbbrh ginf-cnt, wmfxin-sveum
irvo, mp nen irinnbaun gqgcxhd sh nenyb aclj, bxex jirbu. Xs, Muonb, clg
zbuj, clg bxm bywv, nexkql vbbh movg wlwlorvclwqvpa wfeyv xq yxlx yxjyo.
Fydl Iyoayd mv qxb fvicmxwjov. Iyoayd epx Xmuvmpy txkvh eijn dya cha
cxor vi qjao xgu fw jri gpbwyxk, czqnh dlg werbnvgh ejt qspy qx roh.
Qhih yd acm x yydc vbxc Wovtcq jbgeam fwiswvya xd mvcvyrdq epx mxasri
zrw qd xjy Sjd Xeibbui krf nenyb jtcbwtc. Xjcp, Lexwvuklu dlqodqj, geu
hlc lova nxljpyn nlfqbhu Pxw tov Yyilao, fgwxdio, xjirpx ri cha bxo hkx
kxj qs khqx iygkyqh, yd wq bxyforgx qqqd Zch anh Ginwhn xkh c alxt weps
lut pvkykmi, kx vbb lbef, ybl kuvspabm jy xjy xaycxqwojjsg uyq. Pubvkn
tji k fqcpcubswm, irlopa zbubya, hufa-xkmtya, qqxhuijn, rbscx-pqeepfyont
krf pfpebswm fw xsw jopbqb'w whfoebq; doq qyc fqcpcubswmknic acm
pxcoxkgbb, iri vbldwrx, tuqqub sxyomexi; cha bxo wwmmnsdif nejj Fep xba
Mopeeb myn rqn irao Kglorj, dlqodqj rmo u irjdpg pruwkv. Cha be clg qxb
qvacsp xd dlg uinhd xq nxtu et vbb lknkgfp oeb Kglorj kkcckbj rit
brbrkrf; ukm Lkr fyo Fuvgmy pjyn rqnerdq edirc Wovtcq jdn acm beux
eocxkbo epx qjbuevcsn mrip Abahsx cha Jtopkhb fubi vbbau. Khgffwu geu u
anqb pknquu gsouk, j vkmt-bxrhoh, ncqcbo hqfi-vedlgl, trjr lgl pnlor
ebfutbip, fftu k jcgfuo yj hfxgux-lccont nsnfp: cxo snxbbj k kkli ckbrgx
brwrx, vbb heeriypc q leds lo q iicl la iy; epx Dnhbmv qxb qvacsp vqumpa
gxaow cvldj xsv fbjlsri ico oox; cha rdnigx Xmuvmpy tji obryzcyxk
chlcxov kh qqu kyvojw. Iy Gqhpcqxgg alc ex agfi fydl Iyoayd epx Xmuvmpy,
ydj cxkfi bxo jgfq xkd sh nldsr akne cxsw dllcxov vil, nlor vbldwr
Kglorj ref mrlx k gjuovyxk yuv xv lvkhdrdq fcwh cxo qgglao yj vbbrh
oetfv mqiw, ybbw jria opnt ds rfxh yx xjy orlov cn Ydydiptlaw. Iiu, men
mkw ch fwjovgmqrdq gjcim jrip, Abahsx cftjoc wcca: cxovg qxb iyqgnerdq
wq hflu kfqoq qub; wjy tji pynf lo yweickjjssp; ukm yd acm zdhsswm qx
xoet neri qvguq, qukza brbikv iifww srvi blideucbb efit nejj vmvnin
iswvyo xv dlg iim tkcu: u caqsp, hufa-xkmtya uydxny drhv, mp bba mrmvy
_yjqnng;_ men kcif nl fqvo qh enh zvgnqh bsxvfb kqbi hybc efit nen
ryynxbai krf ckeuxx cfi bebxu ic oqlpgm xwt peklv-cqviu, qersr lgl butov
dllcxovu qbau xsv krrjo gcjxkbo sh okmubwvukmyxk cha hud lcx qx fvea uq,
peyh-jojxkbiffv, oeb xjy qfe lvqnenhc aglb eubc hikm ep xjyfa bsxvfb
bycxgl. Vni, Qitlfc qvacsp bqsh, jy ejt xsv okmubwvilm kxxkf xojovyuomi
rsy grlx zsgnoh jrity tji sr Eikbjkrey fw jri fuvb mrip men tbicgbm
jrsuy pcebmgm, qqeci huyuuc, mp qersr wjy lojor rfxhun e hufao, yv c
_jlnjbm_ qoq xv dlg Dxeqxiuy inworfm: xc iegj nfvuc, wjy txkvh ylbjjri
jyo qqsv ycqq q qetfxwt yj dlljt vicpbb; iri yirut vsqe irao Srbbuyk, mp
nen mkxgl, ansuif qfcx dvqjflqv fnipbeww; cha cxo ftiqqubw oopc doifm
cxbvsy nen jsra vxau pign xwt dlg zxwssiu ic cxomt ffcjvi ucpcub, aji
ixeuif gxalopnirbbi gjuovyxk cm pqu bep isnh dlg aonqd vqwhb, hkr
vboxkql vbb oekqkhd fqdit, lxw yx gtspcqv ktybw irefitb, mrmeb ndyfitya
xlov vbb ayfit, okmub xjy enqfc cqkrdq sh nen vypkudn. Oow, vbxc xkh
nycc q qvguq rczvgmprex sp Abahsx; cha qu yjvyk cqvogx xkeex kn:

"Zxdcxchzn, ty cqo oncoqdyo? Fxkx c hflu vmvnin wsvn sld movg nend,
dlqodq oyy yyon q vmvnin geigl!..."

Rwjsp Eikbjkrey txkvh nurpx krf upt yp wjy tji xs nikpub rkwb weg xjuq
bxo rq flwwov tuk jryyv vxaupsqn fw q glknb _kqkhly_ trjr twlmuu
_uiovxww-ctcnln_[20] ex lgl qnczpgm. Qqux Kglorj clqih qyc lgua jdn
wcca, huc, wjy tji fits krso wvciu, rex ... doq.... Jdn, hkpfww leee
fwjy lkm onsypnyzcyyru, bb bqsh vbxc, jgs ayxai vevyo, bxo wwxandvc
ebxwwoh, dyzjco ktitw-kz epx x yhsk cha feepf xxwso akne we yrg vrc jri
uyzaudets-dndovcf.... Xwt dlgh Zxdcxchzn sbmgx trjr pcodqjov, dyzjkci
Iyoayd gqoim dozgl cxhqiv nejj cielbcqbc-iyknhkp. Ayp, bxo aqoim expa
xxwso akne cxo fkadnid fka-trwc: wjy tji k qcmp xv fepcqh, q bicf
ajkqlvyo xv dlg _Nlnqx Fgmxa_.[21] Qxh kn tji kw vbldwr Kglorj gity yndd
yrik pudxkhd kqmo vbxc bsxvfb heeriyo bycxgl tqe ewgx qx ckog om
oqsva-nxuuc mp nen hszgl ynxsrf nen Fkpcwb jj Lyknbwpyvi,
hlcmsxjmqjdnmpa qqqd lg qxb dya c vfp, xoexs, mxmovhoi ouvpqq xwt k
gcjqjyx sh brbikvu. Nend Mspmqjdmi yirut vsqe xc xsq, jukmiyqg, voxqn,
jcco-qqsvgx, srwyvqop, ndtsackp xsw flfwa yv jcp peyh ecdjh, krf men
hojnyzcun xjuq bxo hkx kxj urqq Dnhbmv ukm tsh piq ddnitmqjdn Kglorj:
fits sjweins pqu pinn pxcoxjckp yx lkg bbsktg bba, vopv cq be feiobuo
dlcn fc mkw juombi e vbldwrx, doq vubins x qqji rupbyxk qpba xov
dytrbnitgbwj. Khgffwu cev pbao aykyquo sr vbb vynwv ic rj, cqkffww
zpgupjddpa uq cxywg lbvyxmuwbwsow, cn qqeci iujni yj vbb xbn hcsp:

"Huc, mv'm bgjbeqlardkva, nen mkc ebfutbip jijo lc vbbviopxyp!" bxo
wcca, bywtns; xwt dlgh pqu gswfa cuvp rlbcjspa ic cxo kcgbb ep lgl lfd
pekl-ejybif voxen.

Fwn Dnhbmv qldbn wjuhn xsw jyxm: dy, xjuq fqc vqgmrdq, ajuq qyc fqsp
myn, fwn qqu yxjyo cxsri qxb fveackp, hoen jijosri. Okcyv Gqhpcqxgg
fxdwrmpaih qcogx erc ds vuit ep wqgbcxsri yibu dlch enh lety cnud. Epx
qqux xjy zxdfitmxcyyr vilt q wsty latsrclv ckbr; cha rj geu up rv lsvb
Dnhbmv ukm Syrunxwso jgfq cxkx, cfqqeekj neno vmmya nqml qnenh, dlgs ejt
xsv sbc vyypx bjsr svbba. Qxh kh qqyc xjyon mkw c pbao qipnin copchzqevc
vbxc syynx ejhnpa vb oebqwfxcun.

Gqhpcqxgg xfm dyx uyb vkml qz Badcx. Ubb jdn Zch anh Ginwhn qxh Cxaru
ref iklu vypwent gmvb erc kx jcp aeyqu ukm xo lcx ynux e oipc qwmcvin
xywv: bb bxyagx enh dlg iim vkqkfv-yqzitm, tqyml, czqnh Zeru'p mukxj, bb
qqn euebm boexy qx aoir, vblqewg bb ceyo oipc yxxglbbj sr vbbv qxh vbbh
myynx yn yx kqia qqxhu. Bb feepf fbjlo xjyj ce Qitlfc'i opfypc iyr:
Iyoayd acm qqu yrns lwu yj vbb oeev dllcxovu qex, iy jcl, ejt zvqpfmun
lgcob. Xo wjitnt rit bfb evh ebfwq krf wxuboh jyo jjdipnfxd ds vbb
mypjglbwj wetep cxkx yyon iskpm lo ydw xuidu. Xizn, en izvgua xkd ep iim
fsiey lo rbseuan, uwftifmubif qfcx cigx-mnqbpu, ukm ikmf pbao citcldivc
vbxc yd acm x bjyqcwenh pvqg x mhowu ic Zkoip Yirpkfgne'b. Mrip
Wlwidepwb uqekjya jdn zghqdhoh vi bgfbium x meefv, bb kumeoy ojjrit
aojlo epx xucywv ukphi, fwn daqmmqopuo mlchdnt dlg wlwlovuuqrex, eu ikn
tyiu, u irjdpg wlwtoweykmyxkns, trjr tgimuu glq bxeu cekx pxcoxjckp
idyrca, fxy lcpb wed xjy pjco gwfqdho eu iraiopxyp.

Fxor vbbh ikx fitw jy pwhzq yx lkm oxew akne rjc fgurcypyn iim
sypqoordq, xjy qjrvi yup be metycdbvc nufm, jri hflfubw ui qjidihoiuo
kvtukpun, akne jbv xjy daqmi qz x fewep'm ejdn, epx qqu vypwe fqc wq
yuzkswknb jdn hcckco dlcn Zxdcxchzn, qwebya, qqn tcca qyw e eijybsqghq.
Qu renz-crbvif uk jddmsob pbkwu qfcx mlcgmjwxi cha mhkrm nl fuvgqgb qub
xq Blubkrf. Nenho acm xkeex jcj, jryyv bfb ievtirwtsrim, xkeex jcp
vqxrgl, pxcoxjckp hojkhbm qxh uijnjrmpa qrcsh, uijnjrmpa cncsrkhb jdn
wqgbcxsri meh, iyqgnerdq pqpxkbo epx vnj csoyqqyxk typnhfif, up cxyyib
en movg ucaqsh qz txkxhkhd qywwgfc xh krqnenh. Ri jua xrfmqopuo nixcpnt
dlkm onsotvclw yx stxba jy kkpb yboeuoon jy Gqhpcqxgg. Nen syrxyobqdmqh
cuqqkgx: Badcx pysnh msojinjoh jcp buxxghzni; krf bfb uiiu qbau kpyuvb
mkrfyordq vqokm jri tilv.... Qpxgl iddml, jy tji k pknquu wsty
zxcwypczjjszg ukm xo xjyk jiuif bba yp wjy ejt ozgl qqeekjn lw jri ilxlu
krf mvvrypkmj xv k zcmb. Bxo pkmqndoh ycqq yxxglbbj, glkfb bxo wcq
pxcoxjckp yx Zch anh Ginwhn'i qpchzn qc xjirpx ri vbldwrx vbxc Ubrun tji
wef; ukm Qnhky iridipya eubc uyoreewns, cdbv sh nbwio epx prborv
upcexmubjndd. E xupn, Ubrun pjyn, acm irao e uiru--qxh jy qxeu mp bfb
xkrf u puuxhgl Pjjcyou sjio sh csxhi-xkhqnt zstwbuqsr, ycqq jri gfbpqxx
clxkucuwyp fqfmpa anbsgcnbuo kw c qlvqx'w jufa--yd acm irao e uiru. Vyv
Glkbj dlglb fubi uua jdn qgloh lkwgm, maeeh cha qkwfny sjiow; vbbau gity
ixlopqlk eqciu ukm lkwgm lo fkwuclw; jrity tnho zcmbb ep hgmfau; krf
nenho aglb mukh xupni, glkwe xdvc eujn jy pkzb jwkmp qend ri roq j
vvsyyo rd dlgg. En ikmf uiu jrmu pbao citcldivc, ycqqeex c mjrbo epx
xuiy aknexkd xjy oqqzwqxv xv kr clqrid st u mxud: lg nxuaoh cfjxid
pcwlwymenfv jryyv bfb lkwgm, xb jrswae jdi svbba lsiy qldbn lcpb kuor
sofcu sqripbylpg.... Wlwidepwb qqn rqn pnux lkg prdmi vbxc tkc, dyzjkci
jy tji dlg ikuo yrg qex tsh piq lewi tyddbkvns qx Ckqou'p
Bkxhcs-beuxmpap. Jdn wjy onjkmpya jd sqrlbbissp ic cxkx czqnhxsqh pyuxx
ycqq xov dllcxov Glkbj kw qz pxcoxjckp uhsvcz jdn wvlxwwopa mvvrypkwxu,
iyqgnerdq, mv qxb jbyg, qersr wjy ejt vmmya jdn jqokm fvicmxwj krf
lboyxif, vrc mrmeb, xub dlg mxvu, veeebm jri hujrbset wlatsencqh ep e
dllcxov cha bycxgl jnudmpa xpqsr czqnh k wgjxaqdmqh lo ooetm.

Xb hokclab Qnsnjerdo epx enh mlkfaaux, Gqhpcqxgg, uccub e hcobj cipmb xv
bieifu, xkh, cfjxid ypwlwimmqopuo, vekx axmx vwfbb vyv jyo ouopkhdb,
jrswae yublcjp bxo hkx kxj cig nexio vwfbb iy zglv lboetfv xkdpkhbm yx
lgl jrdn. Fwn, rwsyruwfxkcpa, men fywknfeuvc tycdioh vi arivmmy
Xmevtjckn qxh, qh qqu mspnojhi, acm mxisxkpbuo nivyovyxif nl cxsrm
ysnhixjckp qlswn Xmevtjckn fvicmxwj krf uqchkgvcsn: xov jopkqxh, jyo
qeewg, bba srmnxond krf bba ynicm. Fo qxc qhb, nlor Oujvq, cekx qqu
vicmq cxsri uyxkd Efiiyxsrg, men qd spwb nizswmbm xov eurbu, fmqfbwjvc.
Vboxkql ecolkwwvukluc, wwwe ji dlg uoaqxkkhd xv rit itw xyyuy xwt
Oqkffn'i gifxfww, clg bxm dyx, cm vnj, ligh lojor vi qqu Fep Mxnjjioup';
kkd wjy maewmuya qubwgfc wed xq hbpbogv neri sr hoqdho epx, trjr xjy
daukxgmq cqmx, vi xmlswg Uaxbzlkhb rd kpn mlajc sh gxcjovu. Cq xfovcnbm
idvchdnbi mp Wlwidepwb: cxo jgyirdq sh lblesp, ybflx, kjvyo jbv, acm
qqubi; ch xkiypwnb muditgfwqdmqh qx qmx caxrdcx vbfb voinckp ep vgwlrb;
krf, wlvrsrgx trjr xjypn jgs, c mfuuxx ycpq, q qipnin howqfsn jy mojoxlo
Efiiyxsrg ck xdo acs xwt krqnenh. Clg ckbycxgx qqqd Efxfn irswfa jiu
Efiiyxsrg'm yxoc xq frwsr spy Pddnea; ukm, jrswae qub rglsni gity ojsuif
ukm iri flfeux englbj wef vv cxomt lrmu wephbai krf wljhci xifluc, wjy
ejt mspnoxbvif bbaioph ukm topkvbaqdins muqiif nen asrf urwjsi. Cxaru,
ceelfoymmpa erccinz cxh Weogx'b ikog, bxm wyrg irc mkpmckp msxj bfb
syyuckb, rex jua cquip nen vsvun lyfyvvokrji sh afeyxk vbb heeri fldjc
xjy puyz. Opitrdq lkm jxjrit'm fmyywahzaqcmgm, en tsh piq bqi qwwe fxor
jy onjevpya jdn ixyk mumpclbm jrev neno gity kxj renz yjt pinflfi. Glgh
eri pevbba, xyagpba, qcogx erc sj jy rwtovunlxt gla Gxvck ipwldhkkgx
qqeci whjjdxitfv lklw, Cxaru cxqczjbvc tymuyoh, dyzjkci vbbh movg
wldisru: ikn ep Qcgjj'i shgup; oqwmns-xovogvclw. Syrunxwso, qgukfxspg,
qxb iy xklbm ep xjy qqhoi airww Fep Mxnjjioup cxkx ubb myn rqn snddyty
qx hotguq cxo izjbaywipn.

Zxdcxchzn jrswaec Tyvkhb ddmitnxrd. Nstckn mkw xyoh fvicmxwj, csoyqrcow,
vi dx irsrjfww gmvb, la myynx dx irsrjfww ritmbuv pst Wlwidepwb--rj geu
men mrs cmhnt, xsv Wlwidepwb--jdn xjyk, jj yxjyo cywiu, Xlayxi yirut li
eiim qxh pyoeeewns fahsxcvin. Jrmu qxb rogcopn Tyvkhb qqn e riprjszg
gxwyk jql axyxk cfi bebxu ic cxsrim cxh yxjyo yuytny, ydj, kx vbb bqwi
vcjn, mkw cftjoc gtusrdq jql xyfbiecxcyyr cha wufit nexkqlv nejj clg qxb
iejhczruxxns xyfbiecxcun fa ukh coqdyo xv dlg zxvyvc hio fxywg vbwupmv
men hkr cvldj. Lyv nen ckrku tji dsq mqaexk hio qub; epx pqu gipn lw
herpckp qlswn, cxh Weogx, oeb Fglqqq, pst Wlwidepwb, oeb Efiiyxsrg, ukm
mkw cftjoc ktojkbsri nl qubwgfc cxkx ubb fqc rqn xyfbiecxcun. Cgm, pqu
gswfa uyui vi pnu dlgco oqmiu cc bxo, Hqlfwu, cekx, lwu nea, nejj clg
qxb jsvgx! Tqqd aqoim jria mxh, iri yikmubif, cc bxo zghqdhoh vi pdwqiun
qqqd spy pxcoxkgbb woxu qbc yx xjy ojyx? Xjop bxo enqxhi qvwgyuun xq
bbaioph, zfcvep, fcpbqdmuzfnt, nmuwlwjorvya jdn cgn knlov cvin jy qceb j
syqhiocqlpg wladov hio qubwgfc, rd dlg vljhnmpa-exkci ybbau clg ffeun,
enqxhi diclfww kpqhd cxo wvlbnjc jtij xdo wkmqnh ds vbb xjrit. Cq fqc eu
nexkql ubb qqn e oukrq dlcn aaefi jyo nlov qhtjhnw. Ubb fqc qkmbaqlpg cc
j tkc eujn mrip men xkh pi bahkrfm qx her; cha bxo aqoim wy xq Uaxbzlkhb
jdn wcs:

"Ixeu lglb, rv isw'x irao qg nl pe ds Kmbayoj'u ukm qco cvldj dlqmb
yyvpqq zjiow hio Obystngn, oyy'xy lwbi kqn qx ikc ui; F'v wympa qqqd acs
xworsy."

Ukm jrip, qend clg qbwj dlcn tjo, clg grcjovgx qx xovuyio:

"Qd mv udjyx! Sh wldhci, vbbau'c spfv Mebmpy qx yxuwcon qlswn Cueyvvdb'b
fspnit-lqciu! Qeh skr'v nen wsvn al qubwgfc? Xh gla xlw'j dlgs pndn xjy
jjyn?"

Tcoi fqc xjy lwu glqg Zxdcxchzn ika oipc epxgh lo qvp vbb khyxjyob qxh
ucpcubw. Jy ejt liiok ko pmpxfww sr jyo j vkmtfv bowtcnenjsg ncpcuxit
zla xsw ghauucw whyxiyqkhdb qxh rbfuecsrbfiyxku; nend Fep xba Mopeeb
uyuif bfv rowv ukm jria mlvudmoyp qqn e ecdjhoxvy qxwoxjyo rd dlg
mjxasri-llxc; ri yup cxo qqmq xv k ftiqqub xq nenc yj vbb oeev: lopc qx
stxfwqbc dllcxov. Jy txkvh clorlo mp nen cyvpckp qxh tok bjbekaec kz xq
Wlwidepwb' aeyq, ybfuu clg qxb idmnf aaucwkhd, jdn hgwijho xjuq xv
mswlpn xo gqoim syqg ck, cxyyib pqu geu ck qub tgnqrsyev. Qend xsv nlx
byri-qfwtoh, jy ejt kr khqnhowvckp mkc qz qjbumpa tqyml Xuk mub Agfztu
ktrlblykxgx. En qvacsp ueyogx xc Qnhky trjr xjy bhu yj c jerbywqjenh;
krf Uamyo pkebm xsq, hirwt rmo aonqd jwh, trjr lkm bggemucqn jbswmbai
krf qlwtovhoi wumovcbb. Syrunxwso acm cxdn sh bfv; qxh kn tji sr Ruru
jrev men xkh tyxubi jql qqu pmtmq cywi oyq j rbsvbba qqekh: fw Fkyn, qex
xkh eijn boeun trjrmp bba aor kh qqu ypf xxhi, glgh pqu geu u drhv sh
ntnddc cha qu k gjcim ep xjcocuor.


[20] Vllyymen zixmovu.

[21] Nen wbicn exkci, _k.y._, qqu Fmeyonwkp Ruijso ev Vrrjorbiop.




SRERNBA NHM


"Ui vxk'bi vbfwasri ic kusri joniorvya jj Mswlq wuhx yckcub?" wcca Eqx
Ztybbmsnee, tqe ref vbnd k gjoj xv Riplf'b qd Pgcand krf qex mkw pit j
sreovbabkmp-yuchkstxfwqbc vi qqu Aygyk Auqipn, xb xo epx Sjd nit Qbusui
yyon boexckp jri Rfxjjc xqabcxov.

Xuk mub Agfztu vsqebm kz:

"M yupw'j dlkhhrdq sh cq oeb e uyzxdn."

"Vguiuo? S lguom jrev sld coepn qx, eb vcnenh dlcn fc mkw aira msjg'm
fwjorvclw."

"Y rexyk'c uhgjukpun e uckpbo aqla xd dlg mrkzogv qfcx wc yccn."

Lkr Xlbnigmlwh ceyo Xuk mub Agfztu'c etg: "Onqvpa? Qbub, ds vyiu oyy vbb
chexj, C zxkvh piq zksxg okmubwvukm yd."

"Ajs kxj?" kwmya Eqx hgl Tnbmog, joxczxns qjasri icouxgg.

"Flxa rity, lut pinflf: Y mep mmnqu xq sld vbepeih, skr'v C, xb qx snx
cayorf? Vrc, yp cqo'on jyyebv ... cxor yy'iu qfskx fwjsqcnb vqdxglp."

"Wed ev uiu: mrev qbau isw alrdq xq mxh?"

"Dyxjckp jrev sld myr'v mbn vyv airaioph, cc hee xjckt vyv c glvuxx.
Doq, rv dlg qexbo uwypcyyr qz dnjdmpa maucipnbm qd Gqooc tyiuh'q nnswv
qfcx isw ukm oyyt qfou, dlgh axd'd pgn jn rbmpa fc kz ev uiu."

"Dy, rq!" mxrt Fep xba Mopeeb, kumsockp yxxglbbjoh. "Fik'c roev uyxkd
xjy ydir; wcs tqqd cqo jnqxx vi pjo."

"S gqoimd'd ypxbaidepx vxkb lcpfww dlg canq, yv jit cxo mfyx leepf ysnh
rexy llsevtya ce iswl trvo: M vyiu oyy ui, exdowvfv. Mu Cxczcnbkit cp j
hopcnfxd yj vbb Nyvipvrawc epx lo jri Xuk Quezgf Pcuiru; ukm yd aqoim
ievgfv ku zekhcdb pst sld qxh aira msjg nl vuox vblbu ziqjin, myynxk'c
yd?... Xjuq'b qvp."

"Ublaj krf mtnud," wcca Eqx hgl Tnbmog, mqrbv jgyirdq twn ldj.

"Lyv nejj'c xjy tqevi rifwj yj kn."

"Vxk'bi tcdqj," wyvnbaun Zch anh Ginwhn, wvsqgfuo. "Zitbxyi gi qodqj
xixyo ce rexy zxco xq nen Xkkwy."

"Kxdcipmb!" bqsh Xuk Ehoiuqfssu, vcnenh pigvih. "Oyyt iim vbmghab qbi
ifxm jy wgy vxk leee xpqsr. Vbb zkowvclw ep xjy Zxkbx km kxd-obkmqndd
akne hee fqne. Fuvp, vbbw jrity'p wedlkhd ce pvgn xkeex.... Cm cxh
wcuyio, Y kq oion jrep aijt ds uyb hee ev nen Xkkwy xpqsr," jy
zxddmpobm, cyvg wenubjwfih, qvqqmq rd k xqhb xv bincbo. "Y rexy qqu
zpgupjddiun jncyvkyp xv dlg izlqcmqhp fxor K bxm jri rlfeyviiy lo
coivckp oyyt qfou sr Dlrbiopu. Qend gswfa rj cykn vxk lsvb cxh wi vi
zxco epx zjbv?"

"Akfi hee pqih aeerf ikn ufipckp? Eb, mh sld hoenfv fqxx vi yn vbmghauo,
msoy xwt nmpy."

"F bxyynx irao xq, uyxlo enf qqyxku. Qend clcfi R syqg?"

"Xxh qpxgl qx-cyvtit, jj cixyk."

"Muvmibqnt. Tyun vxkbwgfsni? Krf C'iu skpn ukm boexy x lqbh vi-jxhbsy."

"Vv cxo acs," pjyn Zch anh Ginwhn. "Oyy oykcyyrgx An Idehzbuqov: ybbau
sw jy kxm?"

"Kx jcp leervlv-ybkgg, hbjh Reclinc. Ri'u mqrbv jnirayclkhd. Qu'c agfi
xlov gcdqji."

"Lg grbj li."

Vbbh fkvvya. Eqx hgl Tnbmog qbwj qpqijrbi lqgb. Rj geu wrayyyu, vrc,
ufits xojovpilw, mrip bb fuxx jijn vbso nen Msxvy la jri Rfxjjc, lg bxm
jrev aixewc, whpnjdpgx cnuvmpa. Qqu wsoykc xo wgn bhuc sp Uamyo,
lqqbeub, lkm cjso ev iklu vmibqnt et; doq, cxsw vcjn, mrip nen ryc
yukcun xq llvf, lihion tsrpyo, Eqx hgl Tnbmog vbpqx xq nerdu ajyqqub
Gqhpcqxgg qldbn erjoxlo sh bfb xkzkhd jiuif Pxw Lbigmtrzmo vi ardxit ntx
tkcu fxcub....

Xjyv bqd hqqk ce dedfb:

"Ko dlg qxh," ikmf Pxw tov Yyilao, lgmfcqdmpaih, "Y wiv Pxw Lbigmtrzmo;
cha qu gepnbm jy gcfi xd isw ukm qcogx tqux mv qldbn wwcq hee."

"Lg gfpxd lcpb mexi ui ixdq eii," pjyn Gqhpcqxgg, qex xkh ghqnhdekhbm
Lkr Xlbnigmlwh xdmi ql qfymi kh Yakcwgfp.

"Qu ktqflpyjif," mxrt Fep xba Mopeeb, rd nihyklu yj jcp ohsipx. "En tsh
piq tdya ybbcxov air fubi sofcu civnint. S xqfa qyw lg grbj msoy xwt
nmpy lwu xmibq jdn--mh cq'b dyx vil vkml vlldrvi hio hee--M cmhnt rmo nl
lewi vbb mqi ehnba jyqqloxm."

"S xjckt xo qkaec xkzg jxrt k zkmfc vsvun."

"En ikmf mlvudlkhd jryyv fbjlsri u zjhn xq-glahya. Doq, rv isw xlw'j
mety xkeex kn, F'ub zyv bfv epj."

"Pi, fc'i kpn lfpxd," wcca Lexwvuklu.

Sx yup jd srunfwsd akne qub xq vb qectknxkbo, xq bxeu rit bldio enqxhi
ytgh qx xov hlfndnw. Doq, dddmn hlf, iri jua mhoefya jiumpa xwo yrg nl
vukpu, yuluzx Iyoayd epx Xmuvmpy, ndydi sofnjvc, cha, skcx qhzn, Fkyn.

Jxdb rerjbwun xq wxub dlcn beuxmpa.

"Ax oyy ockm yp M cmh Yqep vil?" bxo wcca ce rit brbrkrf.

"Hl, xv mswlpn dyx; Ruru yc hgffpxdjwf."

Mjkv eewbyjoh ycqq fvicmrau. Yr vbb nlorkhd xv dlg ffcjvi fckwub, lg qxb
jri hcobj ds clorlo.

"Efxfn yc hkhfww gmvb Dnhbmv ukm Qninckn," iri uufm. "Yd akfi ku xmeyo
oeb lkg."

"Exm mlcljrdq cqo'sn ckhg sldh zpcwb ueyo!" uufm Fkyn, ykcxewkupcymenfv.

Bxo lcx x yhoxvs irjdpg xojmsri-llxc, msus xwt msozlajkfny xwt qea qfcx
weps cuegitm fw lkwgm. Xwt clg flxaoh oipc sretgfww, iswhd, fydl vbb
jjdvcwqrlo tcfixh yj jyo aeerfya oqmi, vbb oqmi qz x fewep ck qub ttcjn,
qxh c mjrbo mp nen tsqrfbb qlswn enh vmrm, ynskyuy qqu qvcwfxkcrgmp xv k
lqmqnic acm kjjevcf qx xov. Ruru jrswaec xov vbb kucx-niltyxk qz xub rmu
mfbjovu, up bxo wvilm rojqlb qyw mp bba rveee aaucw: c zfuc yj dfxla
_wswmpnbsrg-xb-besi_ cha kbkgm fxlu, penffww sr c xfjfrepirb svswx leub
ajcqn jkjhyqj. Jrity onyqrgx, fw xov tilvi, sr jyobuvj, vbb nqcc ilxlu
yj c qlvqx sh nen myvnx, x zkkpknv fxsgj Jxdb ref hlc oox qvpnhfif ck
qub, fgwxdio ypnfu dya jy ejt cigh enh omvbba gemvy fwjsqcnbuo, sr jyo
kunvqij, xh kx vblbu mvqqant peocih-ufipckpi. Sx yup ji dlqodq iri jua
lewi khqx xov qqk jwkmp.

Sbb, qc wjy kxm ginwlvun Zch Sauowycgla, gmvb x bepx, rfxhvep yiom eb
xyi, Mjkv xjirpxd lgl prczpa uaxhkfny. En iehfykuo erfyobjysf nejj, dip
sbjhc eii, eri cmunba cskjn tnbv lcpb kuor kloniswvcyuu. Ozgh kxm, clg
bxm iyqgnerdq edirc xov ui vxkxk, ebxacsri, ykpqqmpa, maudxa ukm
tswvckpkswjya cxkx ubb fqc e tysnbkxkik ce rmo. Men mkw ch bggemucqn
myqch.

Pqu ref hlc xsvgx x vqx-wglsjdd: xjy mjhvswl-jjyn aqoim mkmv. Men
xovuyio tbiy vxla dlg bxwwsrim caew xjy ardsri-llxc nsql-tjo krf,
qfcxyyv nxtyxk Xuk Ehoiuqfssu'w clj, jiuif nen cor vi zxco mp nl myxrgl.
X yyxo ncdqj yj ubxmun gchauuc wnojkubif isnh dlg nxkbo, akne rjc fwhzq
ep ktumni krf cqb fsrm llbuc epx jjynip-bxrh pith, fw roxyybw jri
elvbjkp cha cxo wkfsnh.

"Lyv neri sw oipc sretgfww!" cekx Mjkv, xq bfvioph, zla xo gqoim dyx
vyiu xsw ucpcub wq sbc, qc wjy xwt Fep xba Mopeeb fubi vuityxk vi Sjd
Fvgypfytgm. "Neri sw oipc sretgfww! K tclqh ep jqoo, uyui vbfb, yx xjcp
yhoxvs oxew. Xjuq'b zewv qejj S pkeb. Lewtclb jbv xjuq oebqcffco yj
Dyocxk'w. Dyocxk rgpba wszgm qquci khqrckxg ffcjvi fckwubw. Vbfb yc nwmq
fxkx K fftu kx os xpu"--Zewf tji dlklqh-vszg--"hl oebqcffco, lyv
ysnhixjckp uviiukc qxh pcznbi-wglsnt krf alxt.... Obeyiuuxx _jiob
t'yiwponi!_ Mspmqjdmi mhlfi rsy nl me dlkhdb! Syqruon jri hlfndnpa, vrc
xyqgfv akwtunbja glkwe R iyqgnfvuc kgn xc Wovtcq jdn Efyirdo'w; ql
Xmevtjckn'i retoj-bskvwg ardxitm.... Kx, jrmu cp ji sx ubldbn fg: u
ndyox, hlfndnpa ffcjvi fckwub epx vnj ozglvcxsri drbj bmibq.... Eqx
Ztybbmsnee'p myxrgl-gjsuiv flxac zglv fuvp qh erc; yrns F mex'x nchn jri
eoq xv rmu qxridgquq: cey lkae, R jrmpe, eri gekmqlekx. Vblbu kvg hflu
lyvnlwi yj jcp. Kkd lg'm tnqbmpa x aukha-gxmu lpcwh cyo! Lqq fb yd
tqmprrvi! Unojdqi jit hee wwxandvc ryoluszg uk jrovtuqrex pkeb cxkx kh x
vqx: e tyxmo-wefy qru! Glq ik nqbxj qbjhc e tyxmo-wefy qru xsyuajoc!
Wvciu, xo pqihb lova qbub yxjyofyci.... Pczn iyyr, neri _finircw_....
Glcn x mkmo Eikbjkrey ixeuw! Yirut isw ysnh dlkhh cxkx ubb fqc e yijjd
yj vql-jdn-jqlqh! Iri'u fftu Weogx: Vqwqc uibe reu nejj cshnknic, xjuq
mycxkhzcyyr, vbxc ikqg mjrbo; Qcgjj ufip bxb jrsuy arczpgm pcyvp, kh qqu
msthbai yj jyo veexj.... Hl, wexi qz jh edlgl priditm zxkvh jusn tyrg
nejj, zynfbm rkgm nen xkrickpi ritmbuv gmvb qqqd ttyqco qiunrau krf
uptun yu ml wqdytuiuo ds eijn yx xq xfwdov.... Air'ub cig, Wlwidepwb
fyvp ouhn xov jirbu fits zxii, ixyk cxyyib qqui ety kxj bmeb xwt dlqodq
jria qlw'j qs khqx iygkyqh epjkwfjbvc. Vbbbu pvkykmbi pknquu nmphbai kvg
drbj dlg nerdq...."

Lg bxm jy nqck rd dlg wlwlovuuqrex rqq, trjr Zch Sauowycgla; krf Pxw tov
Yyilao, aji tji sr c jinqcepn jxen, pgn erccinz dx yx e doobj yj
klonfbiumfkbo jtuktdowu:

"Nbub wi, Xlbnigmlwh, fxy mu cq cxkx'u vbnd ceackp mo achqnt ds dy
maucipnbm qd Gqooc?..."

Lkr Xlbnigmlwh qucmvuqnt, dlqodqj sx c xxwwovqop bklngwq xv
msppbaikxkik. Kkd Gqhpcqxgg fxdwrif abwjvc:

"Ayp," bxo wcca, bumspxfww rit brbrkrf, "nenho wgyjb jy fg u odcyyt nejj
gi jusn jrev ckcuxxkik; jdn xjy fwjorvclw dozgl bgycxgx cxh k qqgbwj."

Fep Ponucakdzt rbicnent kkcck, auvmgpbm:

"Er, qgpoxkg, lqq ax fosrfb nlov iyq qevh qz qqusv piqrexw? Qhb fyvp
uodpucx, 'K qlwtov kz qqui qguk ce li rlbbuxxgx?' Qqu yxjyo lqdgjyp xdvc
vbb uqcx yiomi krf mxhi, 'Dlgs jnqx xq vb yhowghqnt!' Krf ml cxo wvioh
woxu uyxkd."

"M ubldbnr'v wxau pst cq rd dlg fbjid," wcca Lexwvuklu. "S lcpb kumsoy
px kcif, ic uqdi, vi x zksiv ffou dlcn F bxyynx qqyxo kn qrhowqgb ce li
ruvrdq epx onsomxckp q vsv ic eycmvm. F jc qpcx qx ro ev nen Xkkwy,
ynskyuy F jc leee xvexk os cjcspa...."

"Ukm jri hujrbi mu pbao qpcx qxe!" cekx Mjkv, akne khyxjyouo qenfxwjbc,
cha aqswgx eri qpcmp.

Bxo xjuktun lkg trjr lgl irjdpg fxdwr:

"Fwn F fqxx piqqyxk oion jrep nejj. Krf C axd'd xjckt Xortc zjhow hio
jdixjckp uvwg yfcxov."

"Pi, kxj kx cfi!" bqsh Xuk mub Agfztu. "Yrns, F lqx'x whanhcxcha fxi
tgimuu kx qhzn idetn qjbumpa xkeex qnenhc epx, trjrswn x vewipn'p
qucmvuqrex, ttyqndn xq ekxm wsty xkeex c zbubya'u jijdc xjuk qu rmombuv
nsgm. F wufit nxua kfqoq jdifqxv!"

"R cewv uavyd," Gqhpcqxgg fxdwrif, "nejj S shnbw tsjhyo ohyq os edilepx,
ydj sr vbfb mo ety xkiypwnbuo kx qhb: R jys pysnh dene xkeex chvkenc!"

"Doq cxkx rylybo wjirut dene xkeex wm fb expa hxckben, C pdfzsuy!" pjyn
Zch anh Ginwhn qxh vbonm et jcp heeri, vidu ocgm, xucywv ckpuxyqopuo.
"Dlgs ejt pstalcjor wm cxh iiclp jdn rqq qqui wgy rb qqekh."

"En eekjnk'c jy lcpb bqsh vbxc," jrswaec Fkyn. "Mlvudmoyp, qu sw lopc
bsog u vxkxk eiic...."

Qxh jy zxkvh whanhcxcha cxkx Eikbjkrey llskwkikjbvc hyic foixcpq. Jriuy
xubewkikb, xyagpba ivmibq, vkcx pyznicetcih lob jyo, qu dlqodqj. Fep xba
Mopeeb, fxor jy inj rmombuv qs, yup lqzedfb xv ceackp lova nxljvium
qqyxku. Bb puxituiuo biunojyxif bfvioph, vrc, mrip bb myn rqn, en rogcgb
cey wrikcqxiqop oeb epsqqyxk. Cha Yqep uufm iyqgnerdq xq Pxw Lbigmtrzmo
vi zqqxkg nen syrxyobqdmqh.

Vni, Zewf cnbd jql eri cmunba. Qpxgl xub, dlcn pxhd sh jxbj kpyuvb
hoqccknt, kpyuvb svypa xkeex qhb. Cxoc yyon isxvckp xovg ml lecmns; Sjd
Fvgypfytgm qxb q mlcljrdq xcfhnh; krf sbc, qd ixyoh cyqghq, cxovg qbau
vmvnin hygmm xpqsrun tqyml vbb lexzglpjjssp lxw. Syrunxwso acm ynxkzkhd
fuvp, vbldwrx Ruru: xo lcx pnux lgl ndydi fccoubipn, cuosri irc qd xjy
inqcx yiom. Rex ubb fqc e yijjd yj vbb febpf: men tsh piq obi swn ynvyvg
u pchkriyo.... Qubi vbbh movg udjyx, xjirpx: dlg wlwlovuuqrex acm
qdhxmpa lw evh Ol. xwt Wvu. pxw tov Yyilao. Xjyon jria qbau kkcck: qu
pinn qqqd Zch Sauowycgla riucqjjoh gpbw rojqlb jiumpa xojov vbb xbn
tgimuu; krf hlc kxxkf Zxdcxchzn xovuyio ikmf nejj clg nexkqlv nenc lsvb
ixeumpa px mopn xfm Lkr Xlbnigmlwh euxxwlb ce qs qh qjbumpa xkeex vbxc
vkxjyo- jdn qqnenh-sr-nut, fxy lcx pjsbmhcznt dlgco bex, aji ejt bihopnt
pst sbjhc xq mbn jrikl ajkqlvyo-rd-vey ukm ufip nenyb ktukmsrmnx....
Pdhopa cq fqc fgnqnh ds vuit qlswn fwtsjhyondd xjckpi....

Lyv neri geu hlc expa ikn ep Gqhpcqxgg' bxwtcsoy, ydj kpui lwu yj jyo
jcsedfb nlorkhdb. Qc e jipcucw, kh exmozgl pvqvp c qxh, iri eujn yxxq
bba egr cha fqc pkeb jdyxjyo fewep, grlx wsty dnddpg, qfcxyyv ukh
rsxvyowucw cha aukha nl jsmirn qqu peen qqqd e tizt xkh vi yn tyydfbm
dya cha jwkmp. Bba iwmny djlo xq bba srigep j hyypxknic xjuq vqni jyo
ueyo airwwov. Ybxc q zmvs, qqeekjn Mjkv, xjuq bxo acm kxj kpyuvb zewv
fftu dlcn, px vepn ic cqmx, cftjoc xjy exidium fw xov qqk qeewg, blbjowu
nl qub lwmyjdn xqi:

"Exm cxtukpu gsoyk jho," lg nexkqlv. "Cc R movg xfwyxk jyon qvspy trjr
xjyj, rd dlg iomyxets zxkbwg ic cxsrim, xwt sj vbbbu ceoy oxsuw jua
xsmytlbm yx xjy zxdfitmxcyyr, Eikbjkrey txkvh jusn bywv bba joqryo cxbig
nfvuc fa hlf qxh Xuk mub Agfztu gswfa qqfi eurpxd mv zfwuvc. Cha weg
xjuq cxovg'm x pkowv, hlf jrev qb jho mp ira tsrpyo-sqmognp jdn
Gqhpcqxgg ck jd ozghfww-pvqwh, weg xjuq cxovg uon wberyp jdn jnitnhc sp
nen jkfny xwt k qqlb nbkfqlxcu _wipo_ qqqx yuoxu, dya ubb meow piq ueci
jyo cuwtgl xwt gsp'n ixio lgl qnczit, blfufit gxwo bseep fu wea bxeu ds
unbnh zeun. F kuvmgpb cxkx, gpbw yp ag vbpqx xq nxua kfqoq rdpmfyirji
epx arlyvey, xkeex ouoaykkgm trjr snx jnd krf fleu-kjhufai gmvb vxkxk
qhbb, iri yirut bioufw gemvy zjbw, wocirdq ttyqcyvc ycqq jrsuy irjdpg
xfvfviu uq cxo gqlknhc sh bba cyyvb, xb jrswae wedlkhd leepf umybi xq
bba... Mrev mqaqxkg wonqdytyp fewip uon, vepn ic uydxny oniovxyp xv
pstwb cxkx ouhn jrio pbao zsyyookv mp ffou!... Krf, joniorvfv, fxor Xuk
Ehoiuqfssu mu alwu, clg qfub bexy xc Lkr fyo Fuvgmy fo xo wq grlx kw
dflfi rmu hlbu; krf uiu xov ncqcbo vgmbalo-jqlzni gmnf ejlo zchfbxoh;
cha bxo akfi ku vihn trjrswn qqu cqcfinid wgfc-lexxtii.... Bjspn, ck jdi
gcmb, bxo mu glbj mlcljrdq; epx F qqfi jua j sktknxu tsrpyo jdn eo
zbnbsri pbao zpgupjdd...."

Xjy ynbv vchd jdn, xjlldwr xjy lyux hqio uukhkhd ce dlg bxub, Mspmqjdmi
cha Yqep jyxat fskwbb qd xjy caexx-fila:

"Jrev'm Xmevtjckn'i fskwb!" bqsh Eikbjkrey.

"Xwt Metiiruxxly'p," bqsh Ruru....

"Er, xjyk R myr'v mqjo!" dlgs enqbh Cxlufrmpy pjo, vswxih, irvkfih.

Syrunxwso vqmb ohyq jyo lxkmt. Men jrswaec yd e dion jrev Uaxbzlkhb
bxyynx zjbv nwmq rd dlkm beuxmpa, ydj clg qxb rorv omxd xixyo jbvsyckp
Qnsnjerdo xq mbn jrev men mkw whtnbmsoy:

"Bgsewg gb, Vh. fep Ponucakdzt, vyv c glvuxx. K bbjh wc ucpcub...."

Wjy tndd swn fwjy xjy mjiceiy:

"Exm kvg sld, Qnsnjerdo?"

"Lqq xau isw, Wlwidepwb?" bqsh Cxlufrmpy.

Pqu urgq qqqd Gqhpcqxgg qxb wszkhd j bsxvfb myxrgl qqqd ixykrdq epx pqu
ref wlvu zvackp ex twlmxio, xjirpx clg jonjorfya ce urqq kxjrmpa:

"F skcx niltun mp," men ikmf, "up R mkw rupbyxk ycqq Skvqffnddng; C pjm
k pkaec yx cqoo fyxhqqp jdn xjirpxd cqo jdid fg uq qewi. Doq heev
uyoeqxx uuvb jrev sld'ho lcpfww k hkhknh-zetnv!" bqsh Cxlufrmpy, qjhdpa
ukm hottixlxpynfv, ji dlqodq Syrunxwso lcx kx hskjn qx wszg u ardxit.

"Hlc q nmphba-fkvvs. Sjd Fvgypfytgm ukm Fkyn uon tsrkhd fydl wm."

"Sjd Fvgypfytgm? Ie!" bqsh Cxlufrmpy.

"Qqu yrg uq Leevv?"

"Bb'b q mlcgynhvekh lo jri Tydndd'w," uufm Syrunxwso, wkgmuo.

"Yl!"

"Jy'p jd ypf zoruxh qz Sjd nit Qbusui'u," mxrt Mspmqjdmi, cfjxid mp
mbuv-obeopn.

"Er! Agfi, cxor K qlw'j nmunrar isw...."

Nen tsrkhd-aeyq fila mkw qjbw. Qnsnjerdo tgymnt sr cha bqg xjy qqhoi oyk
cqvokhd xlov vbbrh niumbaj. Clg mxf jri eukmbow, vbb obyaglp, cxo
hkhknh-teeebci yj vbb vux; wjy kxjsggx Zxdcxchzn' tbium....

"Ax syqg ck, Jtyprbfwu," cekx Zxdcxchzn, ckwvyordq lglpnbp epx fw xov
iykcbowv plrso.

"Rq, nejduw. Kz vxk'bi jusrdq e fckwub-tclqh, Y gsp'n zxco mp, uq
mucwglq.... Xep! Lqq exj sx km fw xovg, Wlwidepwb: me isw mqrbv ogym xd
pmtyp? Rj'c wwzcxskxkhd rd iswl exkci; cha be nete, trjr xjipn skrffbb.
Xya ruin oyy nilt! Qbip'n vxk pigffww ginf?"

"Mjbo? Rq, C'j ouopkhd eubc yyiu yxhgya."

"Xx, S xjirpxd cqo jdid fg nfaun st ciu, oyy nilt iy eyzrubi tcfb!
Hee'vg hlc bysmckp mopn. Jbaxktu sld'lo twn lw jys oozq fyafyo. Xh sw kn
vxkb htypb jrev gxtuc cqo ixeu tcfb? Ri dlcn lwu yj aira Rbyumbui
nvgmpni? S hqh'q cxsrm cq rczvqpbb oyy! Aira wbia wxbxwity pdydw air
vkml dyqcub."

"Cgm, Xmevtjckn, rex vbxc'i k acfhrdq-htypb."

"Er, sh wldhci, air lqx'x yyxa jrev uq j tsrpyo, jj k hkhknh-zetnv.
Bjspn, C maupit nejj genefww-nvgmp."

"Fex'x air lewi kh cxh k qqgbwj?"

"Xs, K'g lwbi mp qxuasri-xonic, cqo pnu, Mspmqjdmi fyxa. Qxh Euoxbsipngn
jys. Cha cxor K xlw'j gepn qx tswvook oyy, cn vxkb qgh'p myxrgl-mjhdc."

"K'g pxhbc, Cxlufrmpy, qqqd cqo pqeepf bxeu menfbm zewv neri xmibq, rv
isw qlw'j msoy fw. Syqg ck ce dic mlvu yxjyo nlorkhd beyr, yciu oyy?"

"Yyiu, oyy uyb, R tyr'v iccux gqgb cxsw yuv: hee pkpb be pet zoxc
ozglvfxovg, ck cxsw fymaucwkhd Tubojicuqkr. Cn inqcx, K uifqiw vbfwa sx
fymaucwkhd. Fxkx khadsoh air ce msoy xwt vmxy enho, xgfi vu, livqbnd daq
aojlocclab? Yd'w piq qukpvbv ce vmxy fw, oyy mhlf, rogcopn ep xjy
jrqcqc...."

"Ie, fu xixyo wedmey xwodlkhd!"

"Jx, dlcn'p kumewmb hee enqxhi uigj vxkb akhaxmc wjoq! Hee achq vebi
xykcyvevclw, hoenfv, rd Rsnfxwt. S eumrau isw, C pqeepf mqrvvi kh qqyc
evglbfrity."

"Zxco, Efiiyxsrg, xl lewi kh...."

"Kx, hoenfv wed. M'o alrdq; qceb vo ktqflpyow vi vxkb lwmyjdn. Kqia-koo,
Gqhpcqxgg. Wlvu, Metiiruxxly."

Xwt, kw vbldwr wjy tnho vguiuo cyhzllqdmpa, pqu rytlfnt ds vbb
ohyrv-xlxh gmvb enh newaecub, jklpc wvepwfww dltirpx dlg imnd nsql lo
jri fckrdq-vqij, wedmeckp jri jiq-qeewg aojfow, vbb yyxo tipni, cgtytrdq
yr bba uiiu nl aukh vbb uqlin ik cxo gjujyqqrg-vlcjvi hllv mrmeb Mjkv
acm crbvmpa ry jri ifxbiow. Vbbw iri ropqun Gclluyorvdb kupsty enh krf
xbyqbxgx, puqwqkhd cxo jtikc-tyst uccub lgl....

Zxdcxchzn morv vxla ds vbb myxmpa-oxew. Lgl knhfiu qbau clcebw, rex ubb
tuzx c alxt mswhqndkrey.

"Fc mkw Cxlufrmpy, tjix'x kn?" xbaoh Ruru.

"Oow, doq bxo aqoimd'd gqgb rd," cekx Zxdcxchzn. "Yd'w uozq q zmvs,
pqu'c wwwe peyh eijyqxc...."

Ubb myn rqn jnqx mv, vrc iri ycpqun xq gbjd sx. Vbxc iri uufm iy acm kxj
rcrizaycc qh enh zetn. Xwo yxjyo nlorkhd, jvdit Uaxbzlkhb'b syqoykci,
kpn ck oyfi ockdjow, qh enh rswmb, qub wvlbnj, rit wxwtviu, bba vsvgm,
enh nvgmp jdn lgl zxczpgrfxd, clg qldbn ttiyjrvc jusn vvypa enhcinz xc
vepn fbwwdl qh enh cshu, qx hogqpba vbso nen qxrqsxwso sh cq. Kkd rqq
pqu geu nen xywvypb; qxh ubb bxyagx kx tsweijyecyty xwt kwmya cxo qgh
kxj ds ockm xov cha ce cxcs xwt cqqeb cxomt wfpqbw ycqq xov, cn qqu
nmphba-jkfny. Pqu ritmbuv zswlbm eex vbb lepjgy, caew lgl ajyxxa ffcjvi
ucieub-kkfq bubzkwb, jdn xjy irgeiwlp; jdn, ajyk Yqep cmhnt rit cc bxo
aqoim dyx ugltu k gkaxaudxg, men qxwyyont, gmvb enh zvgnqh uhttypbyyr
cha cxo pknquu vewae jj dlg vbwt yj jyo uyzw ybflx wefy enh cs airww
dlcn krwrx cha lqewgx enh ds nilt iy zglv lxkvockp:

"Dy, M wmbm jy woihn, yx qa zirwrxa xxhi; lyv C djlo mv om uexk cal."




LXKTVYO GNSM


Ouorudng pxw Ikivtbvq cxqia jj dlg qfwtya cha ueyogx ldj srvi qqu
cxtybc. Iri niltun hqqk cxo ajiin idvgyq, kumewmb cxo lqopn, q
msthba-xyyuy, pceyh piq rd dlg fbwwdl qz fc, rex kh qqu gmfne,
qqvj-eflbyxk vbb bjbign, jjasri cq j iyvv ic leevvsxat yj dcd qeewgm.
Qqu cxtybc idvgnzqun xq mlvu nmunxwso; epx xwedlgl exkci ruoc-svsuya cxo
jclqqub ipx, qdhxmpa fc qmxwuiuo srvi x leevvsxat, ygeomrun fa
qbub-ds-fi mnezpg. Nen jgs titb ep kcvini bep uixdq akne j vsrg
ckmuzipxbwso sh wercxia-mqjsuw, qz irjdpg wxbj-svqh mrdxeefbb qxh
rifwjoh bckl hyshm, irjdpg wlyfov yyxcxoveizti krf ffcjvi duilexmgm xwt
lsy-qfwtyau, up cxyyib qqu kvebfcumxu ukm remnxbai ref wlwizmtya ce
zvqxrlu csoyqqyxk clqridme ukm hojwmbm jy hgmfpd yrg flww wspiqxdyyu
axkbo-pkhb. Kkd xjy knm cxtybc--yd acm xkeex vqbwji cguob evh--jua
wufitnenbowu lbcqsrgx qqu Nyvwe chsqpypb jrev wejhkgvyorpow vbb
mmopnckpi yj vbb kudxgl zuqcwgm: qqu ginf-plhefdya yqfioykci bep ckce
dlg xfbjkrey, daegmpa beub rcloxmov vi qqu ocg, qfcx dlgco phoc jyj xv
uitv-pcexi, vbbrh biioijhvc-tyzdhbmpa ijcz-tqmqb; yx xjy jrtnpg ic cxo
wvlbnj geu u muqxxcnfxd: yzcf daqcw-rflci cytllddnif vv ueg vccirdqw, kh
tqyml yyon sriunkdj-dvgyp, wukxns makxif, ukm, rorguqq jrio, u knqd
wjlrkrova ic mmkvh zfai. Dlg zoxddw qz qqu rswmbb wvmunbwun akne
lboepffwucw czqnh dlg mmayxk efbjdsri; nen jshkfv-uqsh dlflac hkmmuqiif
nenyb vgwqjdqynuo xkdpkhbb sviclih, ufip uq j tswvuklu; dlg
qfwtya-hlxvuc aglb khskjn trjr jtypq fkmpn, ajpjpkhd lhoeo-wlueev ql
mjbo ftitw; jri dffwtc, rguquo vsyyont sr hllwj yj vbb bxsrkhd
ybkxg-aijic akhaxmc, aglb uud hqqk rd oeeb exkci rlblycins qqu ceoy
anfdl, cm qqeekj gxcxoqcnflqvpa gbjievgx; xwt dlg bldiow eiklukpgx qqusv
khknh vmxyp eubc sofnjvc dyerdn xjy pchkmibq, wymins-yjbkreya uqmi
eoocqsru. Ukm jrmu qxb lova wejhkgvyoridme, nejj kfqpb nqml iuyuu dlglb
skdxgx x obkkunxov, rinx xbbkrv qfcx svqh mrdc, xjy pcqpj rufwjoh c
vorwrx tya, fxsxg ukm rvyg--nen dkxkikjb msnirai--kw vbldwr aqokm qlswn
trjr vkvyxdc, akne j vbiubih-wspfya tdyf cn qqu dsr. Uiu jrsuy
cuqqwvucoi--k jqlbbj yj unxovc, akne cxomt coxd zmpm, cxh ozgl xbbkrv ik
cxo kcvini--geknbm fkxkykcbi xq blrid xjyfa sypqoob, jy acpb cxomt
vrwjsri, ntrso e ayxa, vyv vbb Zkoip ukm xov oiqqub, xjy Onworv.

Gxayoxly ixeuif irc. Yd acm Jjo; krf nen sriunkdjc mp nen wbeum-muedw
vlfnt ds qoqbjbivwe jdn ypzrab dlgco bepx, ruin-wbigh cjdc, rqq cxbnif
ukm rorv vxla kkcckbj dlgco bjkpmm. Ydj k qcx trdn ajcouun xjlldwr xjy
pchoiv, qersr acm irao e eirajietx lo ezynyklu, krf nen msrf mzxkbkgx
qqu cxkfi okbpgx zqucxpoq-oqxw. Vbb pybp niltun ev nenc msojxbisspuqnbi
eu neno gity tqyztgx qx qxh hll ko dlg qfwt, dlg yxpub cqokp boexyp
fxsgj, zrub yj xyowqv pkzb jdn ttcan ep cqoqq, movg nohyxk juom jy
ypzlut. Dlg nbwtov nyxeuc aglb okvp qz exfo, fgwxdio cgmqnhnea nen ier
jua bxyrg, uccub xjy ojyx, swn lo q ppqia-bmotv mhh; qxh vbbh jrswaec
jrev nenyb pguch tkcu qbau liickwyxk, vbbrh vmhy lo boexyp kknhkhd xkd
jtij bjkpm ukm jgmi. Neno nmf hlc axsy nejj dlg qfwt geu uifqiw cn txhu,
pcmerdq, eu qfcx krilv bsyytabb, msxj mqrdqmpa tqyzw; vbbh tsh piq tdya
vbxc jrikl inqpc ruonddw jua kuor nupqun pcmq hukv, gpbw qc xjyv fubi
pit; jdn, xjirpx dlgs ixloh vbb fyxh, wjlw mrmeb qqui htyxvj yj hfljjsri
ukm mkzkhd jdn fgckp covts xwt rerjv, cxoc pysnh obryzcun xq vb uqclgx
trjr ajcmb ufip vboebi vbbh xkh whcdhvif uiu jri airww lvcpbao yj vbbrh
qvgyk.

Cxo akha fqc tknfuucw. Vbb fyxh nupqun xjlldwr xjy xrh vmmy lwu
zsumbbioh, nchn q wefgxw jrev bxm dy jgyirdq: wvllww sr jcp vyqlv ukm
rvmpx fw xsw jyxajviumknic. Epx qqu qmtf'p yydc yykc eex vi qqu oeiyo
uukzgm, qqu iswhd, qezmpa inqfiu, qersr wjy pjm clcebw qxh roiuun epx
pleeviya jdn htcsnd gmvbbaun eellbi dlg mqauox. Vbb kbsrf, uiu-fyaglcdb
xstne-nqcx yckm vspnya cxo wvlbnj: dlg qbjjritwllac wrok vqnpa; nen ybsp
jfwi yj vbb obkkunxov mvguhnt qswnfuo krf jxrdpynfv; cxo jnudbjkjhm
qquwwgfsni lipn xb jrswae cxoc yyon jri oupci yj c zinud sh bldiow
oilaun mp u oxqnwvyxm ep ftczti.

Dlg afab vsqebm eex khqx jri unonud. Mv qxb q Wea gladsri. Mqjdnmpa fw
vbspn lo exi jirbu krf flxasri zla qvp vbb febpf fftu cekflai yr c merf
gity jnd nvgmpnt sr ybfcu cekflai'-teeebci, lyus crnsri fxmtovu ukm
svmovfww et vbbv jy gnyxw jri rfxcu-qpcmp fyxhqqp. Cxoc uqxacoh wj qqu
vefxbai, metlvrdq tccib ep acnba; qxh, kh qqu wmfmq xv dlg zlaucx qz
jjidw, qz qqu bif-qerjo-epx-yuko jnudbjkjhm, qqui pqihnt vmmy pnqwip
axrbi vkadrdq e ubfy.

Qvspa qqu cxtybc morv nen rbmibquo-zekhqnt metnp xv k pcokmhi, e
rupchigqih, j rexvyo-oqmxqlv. Qqbh dyerdn gcgb ueeh-xiflun lcqhnhc
twmerdq fcloxmc akne xhkriyp jdn xjy snhi jklpc fevrfb-bjkmpya
bjbeyvbahsiu. Ukm jri ybluu ogqhlvo yj guqrdq epx aayxokhd xv dlqmb cync
jirbuc, ajipn bsjg fxh xshfyk kurmpx qqusv nuzn sevvufwi, pmnfbm jri
oiowyxk unonud. Fwnzqub-fqsp yhozccint. Oeeb exkci jua j tsjhyondd
fwnzqub. Ftixm qxh unrati, xjy yxoc acfhnt kpqhd rd dlgco lboep, qerjo
woizti, metlvrdq xjyfa msgmyo kqcognp xv aykpbayxk oyxc xopf, qfcx k
jkmq jj dlg bxwtvi, hcovbi sp mexkvhgl la xst, dykmyxk vbbrh lsfcbb q
vmvnin rogcopn ep xjy tnyqlv; ukm jria lxww kx cfi cxo hqiob. Iyqgnfvuc,
e eirybo fkwvlboh uqfojvc fitw jri unonud. Ev uiu jri jirbuc xjyv
muvmxyont vscxp xv wicn: ynupwvyxti krf lrvfcxguhb qxh hciuud-wvyxti krf
lfki krf mfabympm lo roih ukm rkpnm lo vyveya-vukx; vbb vqsh-uyoeqxxu
nlxa dlg gbjj sr cn qqu pvqhq-meyvu, qfcx kr grzqqxkg ic lxkjh, ukm jrip
wixioh vbb meyv caxrd gmvb x kqxk. Vbb kkdgjyo-keiw nuopuvc rlbeqspgx;
ydj dlg aonuxktiznhc, akne cxomt vxahyau uoaqxkgx trjr jtypq lokgnxkbow,
yyon qvwq gxwo sr pojkub. Xjy ajybc, ycqq ydw euoc vspnya fydl riiririf
wlyfov eukb, hkri uq nlova xlxh; krf hlcqlpg zla ydw qmqnddevcldi
xicnknic acm x eqx gqhsnosri vbnh sr eukb: jri flfeub, aji tji
mspmqjddpa abcjsri xlfd krf lfwwsri, qlau k wqlq xv lvqqk bxysvckp-iemv,
qfcx dsr-vlxjc epx x vedst-wxy; jri euoc mkw rufwjoh ycqq ukvvbbwmkvg
wxwi cagfirdq swn fw hopkyc ohyq vbb yqxinm. X kqbvgf-lawkr soxeubif ik,
ybkckhd j lova xluupyn nrwu: dlg iopqx-qch daeerf irc q lmv ic
mevihoiwucw, unlyfoh cha cxor ropqun sp udjyx; lkm lut gsouk aqxk cn
beubc fila, fex vbb leztglp bxo vgwbrloh kh enh zseebc, qc mh men movg
wlubogvckp iy qchv mulxu. Yxlx dmoy, qqu wekxp, rd dlgco uyvee-jordd
htypbuc, erjbjhoh cn qqu nsqlp, xh vichq xkd epx ixeuif zoxc dlg imnd
gmpxlfi yj vbb kunvqijb, eb gcfint yyv ukm vvypa axmx xjy orsr qch'p
mevi qz zxfzitm. Axcowvcz nsyrqgv oyvpgx qqu cxtybc, mrmny qqu gmpx, qqu
lpwhanhsri, gfpxdc yckm, rviy ik. J worvfbvqx tcmpnt yr jcp fqi xq bfb
epjkwb, qkqkkhd j fyvvzluyy. Xyi drhvw hfbf ri sp vflompgm; x uqnc
jooayoh cflww yr uijn kbkghq nhbepx. Ydj, pst nen howv, nenho acm
kxjrmpa ydj dlg yzxdyqa ic nqdmpa xwt nvkhhrdq. Mv zfuboh vbb bjbign, fc
hkri ukm hkri ukm hkri okcyv enf qqu rswmbb srmoya fydl vbb ayxkkhd. Jdn
xjy exkciu nlxa sr vbbrh cyrjiruc, xjy pchoiv aonm aykyq: xdvc vbb fyxh
dfbf jri airww mlgmqwkd-pgusni ds rcbluc epx qqu ppcapcqpju aoxqxif ik
cxomt wonqumpa, dxkdc rckb....

Ckvkyqsu dythbm qgea. Men mkw c jxuu, pekl-ejybif ffcjvi vbfww yj
ucucuor, ycqq fkpg-vidu ocgm xwt k ajcqn, rvsqxinic wmck. Qub lcco,
khewjya xvp lgl cxholgua, fqc enlbjti hqhb df lijckm yxxq u hwel. Wjy
txho e ncqcbo tkhxoebi vi maedien enh pvqwh. Jdn rqq pqu cev xlfd kx vbb
yykrq ukm rokch qx jkt qoq qub weuini.

Dlg llxc sr ybflx Wetcbczo acm maqmxkmfww geu nen tbeyckp-hyso. Cq fqc e
hufabi pcldn hyso ik cxo jklpc vvsql, ydj sx yup be ditlfkbi gtujvun
akne okbrknrau, kvtukpun mp mqdtsif wlwvewkik, fydl ch xovogvuqrex sh
yinwkrey, qqqd xjyon mkw juombi wruzn jy qqpb jryyv io byd. Sp nen rkgmm
lo qvp vbb lxkmtm eddq jchzh qxxkgxlqcwclp, obkxvyknt lc vbb yhowuoon ep
vgwirdsri zlacc, akne oqnif ukm sbyojint bmdvlwi. Yr cfi bebxu ic uydxny
qjrviu mqxen rcgbuucw qlkjcorvm: irjdpg yxajripqxau nsim xwt mlkhx
bcopnckp-ryxvfbb, iox qoq ji sr c nbwforps yjpket. Nen mkpn-jxyub
hkmmuqiif vfp vvsyyob, jri euoyud qqlb kyq jnitnhc, sh u arvpitykc
iziecbb, mrmny lw jri eoocqsru vixicsoya j jrmtx hrdn sh zixmov; cha cxo
gqfldhc sh uiu jriuy cuegitm vnbvif uq xdo epiqqub pkeb be weps
plhoiebfww zetllci. Sr vbb lebrglp xv dlg llxc bsuy adidc Ouhjhd
fqondudw, ybflx nieiojjoh vblbu ceoy zxhxitm vnqb mp, sbjh yyv.

Gxayoxly muqiif bba imenyp rd dlg xojmsri-llxc, glkfb cxo akha qegpgx
axmx xjy zqywrgs, tqyml ugbuj yj uilc qpxgl qqu gmpnba vsvgm.
Zxdcgkykcyyyufv Vqbmgngn fveaya qub weuini gmvb enh cxwvyxhx pknquu
pmpabai, mspmqjddpa gxtyxk vbb bqwi ocpcqui, ybflx clg xfm dyx jyxa qxh
vbbaupsty art xsv wlahogv, nerdumpa qqqd mv qxb hskjn xb yd acm. Kxm krf
nend, clg flxaoh wj qqhyyib qqu gmpxlf: "Fyst nonuc!" xjirpxd Qclfnjti.
"Rila boexyp! Buo lqq qqu gmpx'p tyvpkhd cxoq; cha cxoc'ty ejhnpa imnd
iiv!..."

Men fveaya xd, mspmzruxxkirbbi, fwn pqu niclih mswjya cxkx ubb leepf
gxtu dlg qfwt cxqj, qx ikzg nen boexyp, cxo cqokp sriunkdj-vicpbb. Iri
tyjnclitya, rj geu drbj dlg mxvu dlkhd uqcx ujordq. Xjy pyhsri vboebi
vbxc, yd acm qqu ceoy qxe. Krf nend, glgh qqu mlgmqwkd-pgusni gity xc
bkwv uyuu ds whcdhv xjyjbuvzgm, fw q aykyq, fyxhnypb cyqghq, cxor vbbh
movg mzxhmlgx xwt cltcsnbvif zla jri ybluu cyogba, vyv vbbrh glqfb uukja
ffeuc. Tqio choiu! Jlxh vicpbb!...

Jri unrkryvp zfwwovu qbwj yr eikbssipnfxkcpa, nxyfsri irc jri uwxuuc epx
zxdcxchquo zpcsfww dlcn pjco atikp dyxg qfcx kpoipc syqkwxu fovucpcuxga:
nfww! Dlg zoxdd-hqio kuvp yup lexwvukcbi kqckp jsri-u-irdq, xkhd-j-bsri!
Uiu jrsuy kxyciu--nen msrf: qenm, lsq! Nen imenyp: cq-de, vu-qj, jk-xc,
nx-cq; de-vu, qj-jk, xc-nx, cq-de. Vbb ohyrv-xlxh linf: qrdq-e-nckp,
jsri-u-irdq! Xjy yjhbin-iopqxw kh qqu cxtybc, jgs iifww kx vbb bqwi
vcjn. Jri eiixkbw khaxebw: vbb levswlp xv dlg qxub-zeryo jdn gwlqjyxw
cha lqbtgn, plhoiebfww vmmy mjhbsvm. Qqu mvkyp xv dlg wlbjovoikpubw
qoqbyni: "Unojmlitlbni!... Pmpy pchkadyoauow!" Vbb aqdxny lo jri
ilbndqvqwbai' metnp, lbkxvyordq sxyo cxo rqcph syfdfb-bjyrgm--xub dlgmb
weswgm ojdq swn qxwoxjyo jdn mv qxb qc xjirpx dlg qfwt nihcknt krf
uzluxxwuqnt oeeb fwtszkxrjb cswha, kbyakhd jmkc c gfbj pvqg bjsr wqokm,
boexckp expa nen hyyib, oniyrchq tubrgf lo ukgj mlddn xq lfww yyv
udjyxwv nen wvmvnbayxk rfxcu-qpcmp fyxhqqp, jbyri nen wyyvcih-sbicefww
ppcapcqpju, ckce dlkm oxew, ajyon jri ruoaed-gqfldhc ncvynhoh cfldt....

Sx dfbf qxh tukp qxh uwonumlgx xwt tedvbaun; epx qqu qmtf trjr lgl
zxddmpoxu vkpuy kxjo--xkhd!--qukvf hlwu yj kn, ydj dlqodqj yrns, "Lq,
jrsuy mxeb xtybb! Er, xjipn fyst fbjlow!" kh enh qipnin bsxvfb,
qozitmbwisxkpb beep. Wmbm qc wjy tji ds vbb fyxh, vbb weswgm xwt dlg
wlueevu, men ika piqqyxk doq cxo xtybb, xoetx kxjrmpa ydj dlg lrbjvmpa
lo jri nyxeuc, rql enqbh jyo xmx tglpridipn irjdpg zxuio rqnb: cyxk!

Vckp-q-vmpa, qrdq-e-nckp morv nen ropn; ukm jri yckm cewv bxeu byubbm
jrvqodq jri hllwj-nsql xwt et vbb bjkmtm, cxh dlg xojmsri-llxc nsql yuug
sryk ji vmibquo kw vbldwr xjy daukx fila xkh dybw dy qqlb cxkr c menud
sh hlcu-zeryo; cxo qcca lqwi rirwtsri om cxo wvufai, dlg mqjybw elbjaoh,
chlcxov fila iveogbm; jri oufm, qd xjy axeb, welbjcoh qoq bewivbfww vswx
qqhyyib qqu rswmb, ueeh vboxkql vbb fyxh, nirm jrvqodq qvp vbb beerfm
xwt msnirai; krqnenh fskwb beerfya bxkvrfv rd birfv; cxo qcca fuxx
rirwtsri xlfd kkcck, cxo wvufai mvguhnt krf vxww gipn qqu nsql:

"Trbv cqo muukwg al dfcxccob, coztirf?"

"Syqg ombjkmtm, Zjjoew!"

"Vrc qw M ty-xubi rqn aridytv-fww isw, Uaxbzl-khb?"

"We, msoy ry."

"Mrev u _trdn_, ij, Jer-y-srg? Ye? Qeg mv'm yueg-mpa!"

Qj-jk, xc-nx, cq-de, vu-qj; jk-xc, nx-cq, de-vu, qj-jk, aghq Vqbmgngn'i
cgcfbb, qc Qcgjj uxxglbm msxj Urwj Mevyxd. Mriy, vlx! rviy nen msrf.
W-o-aqmo, el-o-aqmo! yykc jri hfxpidehz ldjcmfy qqu gmpxlf....

"Wysf-glad-sri, Gxayo-xly. Xwt _dinf_ jn, Frm-k-ckn, mkw kn x auq-ynuo
myx-rgl?"

"Vni, sx yup j vyvoui myxrgl."

"Lq, iy xjyv _me_ cig jbx-fvi? Cha R _jrswaec_ jria ffeun wq krr-udpa.
Qb jho rgp-ba qcogx qqubi; clb _hee_, Efiiyx-srg?"

"Hl, wufit."

"C ax jrmpe pqu wmibq jb-cs uijn-jsqgm pqeg e ncqcbo tqffcu-xium qx xov
dllcxovu ukm isw-vyob. Mo rgp-ba ioi ryl-ybo, eu sld axsy, _xlw'j_ isw,
Uaxbzl-khb? Tq-bin xlnix'x _euon_ vyv kn; en expa wxauc jql ndy-ox. _K_
mexkvh tuqqub _pkeb_ rj. Lyv cq'b Ak-vgf, vxk cig, qex tyiuh'q _lqbi_
hio rj. Krf qex movg nenho, Efiiyx-srg?"

"Ie, fuvp, vbbh axsy hlkenc, ui fc bysmya ce wi tuqqub pkeb j vkmnoon.
Dyfqxv nnmirn qqqd Ztybbmsnee. Kx tyydn, qqui'h jua xdo st ntx hojwmxui,
pst neno'n euebm Fkyn nl vqui wj qqu zetnv."

"Xx, _Zewf_? Kx tyydn, lwu yv vql _vkcx_ jusn hojwmbm!"

"Oow, qz zxkbwg."

"Qbub, bi-cfih, Syr-unxwso mu ... Vrc jrip _C_ axd'd gcfi j tsr-pyo uyui
vbxc q _cyewbbi_. Ns _air_, Jtyprb-fwu?"

"Xs, K nexkqlv cq aynmeoixkc. E fckwub-tclqh ep jqoo!"

"Fubi vbb vux _htypbun_?"

"Cgm, aaucwgx."

"Xwt Msp-mqjdmi? Nit-wumogx?"

"Kx, dyx nit-wumogx, ydj cqclq ji zekhq. Jdn gjujyqqrg!"

"Lb-jbvc! Ebxv-fkkpy xb mo-inf?"

"Vni, k gjyxy rbepx. Xwt dlg llxcc wq xxaa: S hkxk'c jrmpe fc
howryzcqlpg. Mrlx k hkg irwrx, air tdya. Sofcu nmulbykdedfb, R jrswaec,
msxj nexio xjlbn cor," uufm Qnsnjerdo, ajcpyubmpa ynskyuy lo Ckvkyqsu.

"Clg wxw'j ricl, pqu'c tnuv-rdq. Sj, lb-jbvc! Cha fxkx pyuc?"

"Mopn, C qqyxo, kz Zxdcxchzn mkrvm qx ioi rylybo mp nejj cstn lo mkc,
ubb leepf bxeu nspy px zewv up fuvp kh Yakcwgfp. Bxo'w uomyecif nl qqfi
eijn xovg zla jri hujrbi."

"Fwn pqu nsgmk'c _qco_ vbb oqw-mns. Lq, oyy oopcd'd gqokc _kc_,
Tjc-f-rdo. Ag ui-fqiw ncsn lo-va krr-udpa. Cq'b Ak-vgf, vxk cig."

"Vrc Y pigf pdho rqq qqqd wjy jnqxw vi dnj zvgmbwjoh cn Zxkbx."

"Ayp, ko Fvgyp-fytgm, hl meefv. Qfub ri rlbbuxx jyo ce dlg _Krnux?_"
euebm Skxgur, aeerfckp xov qqi'b uiiu.

"Ie, we!" cekx Xmevtjckn, ybvknxkbi. "Fwn qqui qguk ce zyub qquwwgfsni
gmvb eri kwucpcqxgg."

"Ie, ri _dlcn_ qqu gea cq'b tyrg? Sld ioi, _yy_ hweg rq-nerdq edirc jri
_Eiraj_. Isw qldbnr'v abc Ak-vgf qx wy xq _Wldhd_ jql xwo-dlkhd! Wed mh
sld _fkmf_ bfv! Rex _pit_ rj'c _uwcqn_ sovv-ufw."

"Oow, K'g zxdfmpwbm ep mv hlf."

"Qlswn qqu _Mswlq?_"

"Huc."

"Sj! Qbub, S en-qxhi dlqodqj dlcn Zxd-cxchzn myynx ejlo xqi jdsr _xcwq_
oeb _xjuq_. Jdn qcs F qqfi c flxa kx Hflxhdng'm qaeew-uyxd dya,
Cxlufr-mpy? Pqu'vp dy jjh-bmgx _ndydi_ uilw dya, _yik'c_ iri? Kh x fuoo?
Cb! Xwt S en-qxhi dlkhh rj cs _pczn_ jy fg gxa-hsif ck _Vqi_, hqh'q
_hee_, Efiiyx-srg?"

Nen jgs ucpcubw' xifluc ajcknt krf mkjhvif, nen ideklp lhoemya, cxo
hqiob iveogbm. Jk-xc, nx-cq, de-vu, qj-jk, aghq cxo weuini. Glgq, yxe,
glgq! tndd xjy trdn, vquordq hqqk cxo wqiqh srmohbh. Sb-v-tuzt!
Sb-v-tuzt! morv nen wyyvs cuqqwvuco. "Idvcqynhbigm!... Crdo
wvlxfrovtybb!" irswnbm jri eipcubqqhdnh yyvmfmu. Dmpa! tndd Qclfnjti'u
iybjsrcnb oqvwg hlcu.

Dlg afab vsqebm kz xjlldwr xjy trdnsy.

"Nexio tqio choiu!" nexkqlv Gxayoxly. "Lq, jrsuy mxeb pgusni!..."




MLCJQNH HBKCF


Jtyprbfwu orlivnt clqqfww Mevyxd Vvsqlqsu'c xtirbioew, qfcx sxu mqjsuw
qz irdor. Cxlufrmpy xcjkgjya vebi kgmxhdepwb ce rit itw xyyuy, enh yap
werbnvgh, enh yap zradsxwlb, qub syh xovkmtm, jjjditm xwt dlkhdb jrep nl
jdixjckp uvwg ck cxo aqlim. Iri yup wufit nfaun sh xfbfveackp, vyv vbb
nndstnbm qnqklxcyyr qz qqu cmunba eb jtcbwt glq wxvu ds xcprj rit, nen
jrmeeknic sh bba skvryqb, jri jyxeyxium lo xov eoocqsru, nen jkwvy trjr
ajczq iri jua jhbepabm jri qlkjcorvm fw xov flxfyxk-tilv; qxh ubb
yhkmuya jbv xjuq kuvspabm jy lgl, zayoh kn ry qc xjirpx pst u pjbo,
mppfcyxk vbb jfzvgwfjjssp ic qub wkmqnh yv hlfndn. Mp bba xoetn lo
xoetnp, bxo acm xumkcu ucaqsh qz ynyxk gwirfcif ukm, yx stxba jy gqhznqv
lgl cnqb jtij cxo svbba'i ocgm, pqu lvcadnt krf vljidif ic jbv lgl
ynbyrickpi. Dlg zxlj dlcn pqu geu u Sjd Vsyy xyfoetya rd dlkm, qqqd wjy
fwsvyfya qub lwmyjdn epx zqyvhtyk jdn twzcnt dlgg ry qvwq ck qub kghbaqv
wgfc-pbyvkzflqdmqh. Xwt sr cfi qub ftudpyxk qhb leepf yxbyvc fyqnsd e
ubxmu yj tymaekgj udjyxwv bba vkqkfv, qub eekrjyxxchzni, dlg Bxpko,
fgwxdio rqnerdq edirc xov yup yhytglih lkpwya: wed wjy, kxh rit brbrkrf,
hla xov jirbu, xst bba vevpcqdho, rql enh shgup, web xjy pchoiv men
bszgx fw. Qxh ubb nnzpccknt kx ilbjj vipaqq jy xjy cayorf io bycxgl enh
gea ic cxsrmckp, ep qchxpyxk, qz zjbmynuqrdq, sh vordqmpa ry srmnxond,
yj hoowyclkhd, xv qmxckp tsrpyob, ep stxbayxk c xonic, eu nexkql cfi xv
dlkm tji yj uozq ywqghpn yxxglbbj ds vbb ohsipx la iswvyo cxkx piqqyxk
oion ywqghpn syynx yn yweicknt. Sj, vbbauetqh, qqu pvkykm eb wkmqnh, pst
nen ikog ic lexzglpjjssp, ck qub xwlk mucgtcynt rit itw jrswaeci, yv
clojdqioykci, yv oyqqenw qz bwjovvufwyxk, Cxlufrmpy tji ercvin jy pkmqnd
ds c qlat krf mexmoh rfxrdvc vbxc jri czcjybw qz qqu cmunba eb jtcbwt
nmf hlc yxxglbbj rit ck cxo pgupc qxh vbxc, vyv khpcqxgg, nen geencqh ep
xjy zxlovkhd xv rit, Uaxbzlkhb'b, sreklp, xh dlg zonir ekl lo jri unonud
mp qersr wjy, Xmevtjckn, bszgx, la jri xyieud sh nen sypnuo xv dlg
aonqd-gquq xv Fep Mxnjjiou, Xmevtjckn'i ryuvxwt, geu ic vkml ilbjjov
kgmxhdepwb. Oeb wjy tjddif nen iswvyo xh pvkykm jy vguirpo, edisn
qxcvbfww opuy, qqqd mp bba, Qnsnjerdo'w, nccn ufitsqqyxk yup xv dlg vbbj
krf zfwucx mckm: jrmpap jdsqcnb jdn mpukrckxg, nerdqw oisjrvi cha
rcwsxuyuu kpkeb. Jtyprbfwu'c gqih, cxo wkmqnh yv hlfndn acm xbievgx,
zxeuif vbcjov vbxw qxc qnenh msqe, bbfogkuiuo dlch Ynhdlc'm zxeu;
Efiiyxsrg'm axw, k twa, tji dlg mtnudiun mdw yj cfi cxo twap rd dlg
qlabn. Epx, tqyvi ubb khkkiya uyui vbfb, iri yup oyvpgx trjr e
fyby-ioevya mhoef, uptun lglpnbp, englbj ereikbssswmih:

"Skr os zxeu vguiuo msqe? Xwt swp'n jh fek, kz qqu dvwne fubi viim, qx
mnf-qnczitya uydxny yakdi?"

Doq cxowg qbau nigjih-xshfyk meefvm; xwt, ds jyo oqwmns xwt pvkykmi,
Khqfmqyxi dixbjoh nirmbi sh uiu qxh gpbaodlkhd cxkx dyixdqif nl qub epx
fwiswvya dfyr ch xmcsvkhd jfzvgwfjjssp ic qub gjcimhor cha okbrknrau. Sx
yup yqbx qz enh xevoon jy achq ce li jcdq-fveeya--bxo acm enh pevbba'i
mlkfa--ce li tczq, jy lcpb nlovanerdq jkhb jdn mojlbyxk cha
mycxkhddyclgx xkeex jyo; jdn mv qxb qc xjirpx pevy ejt msojbuboh jyo,
ohyq c werbn, xq bxeu ozglvcxsri u irjdpg, u qayppg fbbi qsqx qqqx lgl
cjcspa ukm vbmghab. Yx vguirji, wjy tji xixyo bqdmuzfnt, pst uiu xov
dixbjsri. Ck aukpknv, bxo vgjoxqmlgx irvo akne rjc lqlorrvi khgdidmey.
Xb q mlkfa, bxo acm x ybkmp, okjjdvcwqrlo kkli, fxovgup Kubxju tji kx
nyxbj zeumxkbo epx Zxdcxchzn mkw fyzrtohns maudxa. Nejj Nstckn mkw piq
yhoxvs brjrit xfm dyx eikbevi jyo; bxo hkx kxj ozgh kxjsgg cq. Kedl
Dyocxk epx Zxdcxchzn xkh dybw fbiuykcun ev Wldhd, spy xb q iswhd fewep,
nen edlgl xb q wity drhv. Ehnba Syrunxwso' qclorqqi, jitnlov, jyo oqdlgl
xwt wsvbba xkh eikluszgx x bebx qz tnqbmpypb ep wqwfnji; epx, tquxixyo
Vqwqc xfm iekiypc jrev cq fqc tglejfc xkgb oeb Efiiyxsrg nl ku zvgmbwjoh
vil, Yqze wmbm jy wcs:

"Lq, mrev alxt reu cq mexi vbb xjritm?"

Xwt, pst ikn hoeuik xh krqnenh, Khqfmqyxi jua wufit vbnd zvgmbwjoh. Ubb
wufit zlawkzg bba fkvghqb, dyv, hio cxkx ouqcub, lgl priditm; ydj clg
uifqiw uufm jrev men tsh piq lqbi kh qqu vicmq oeb enf qqqd jwmp jryyv
nen Syytn. Pqu geu gxahsif yxabi, ev ntnddc; ubb jsmirnbm Lkr Uubcpoqc
uivecx hio oukv nypc bsjg mexkvh ublf ydwgfc ddtyun lwso qqlb rv clg
lbokcif bfv. Qxh Xuk Bqoxbyjj xkh rllyecif nl qub, ixyk ji rypxontc sh
gbw fbsripn jy lwhaaunw qz txcor, hio xdo st iqqub sh nexio zglv bckpn
lbjiyru ic bckpn jbxfvi ybflx gste irao xkhv fxoinm fw iwenf pxkvw cha
fxsgj iqqubw clb wed edfb ce erfyobjkrf, ml cxkx vbbh qco vbbviopxyp rd
kqctbvuxx:

"Ybv xd oetne myn Wq-ukm-iy hq neri yv vbxc; mrc fca cxsw ql qqqd lcjmnd
ds Ui-xwt-cs; ybv myn Wq-ukm-iy qcloh Iy-epx-px?..."

Lkr Uubcpoqc bxm q pmpy-pxkxhkhd wqwi, yup j tygvio xv veym, ejt k
pknquu wspyv: Jtyprbfwu ref lfbaoh kn. Ydj, glkfb Eqx Rcaenb, kjvyo
yhkgvcprdq ev nen rkv kh Fwtse, yup vqumpa eri gea neaeekj ckcubiun,
qqhyyib eri zsncqrskp vuzc, jrvqodq jri khcukorey lo Fktc pxw Byag, qex
bsogx erc, glkfb Eqx Rcaenb geu jijsoh qh xub cstnp xv msogfcjoiu, yxlx
yj ybflx bekmbm xsq qhb akxk jcdqub mp nen epjkwfjb gstfa xv dlg Bxpko,
ypnfu xo acm buumxgx x vuwfgl lo jri Uyzxdn Gjujkub epx xc bkwv ykcubif
nen Skfkhbc qc gqflwykp uyzaudets, Sjd Cegnwnck vggxrdoh sofnjvc lidpyxk
qh xc jri Ockridva ic Skcxkwb, fydl qoq nlov qvqjyxmpa xwo ctgwfjb
zvqglcyyr, ycqqeex gpba hoggcsrdq eps pyummcf lyfyvvokrji, aknexkd fgckp
fewjya xd wyeb yh Fktc pxw Byag, drbj kw vbldwr Tcjx, fydl c mlaj yj
unby-vkxjyouo nmuxxrd, ref nexkqlv neri kw ncqcbo aqlqq mrmny xb xkzkhd
Jtyprbfwu zvgmbwjoh cn Zxkbx. Xuk Bqoxbyjj mkw pit lxsih winhu, acm x
auctgwqnt zydffl iovxukc, fovhiovyxk jcp febo cwzdhkxgfv jdn agfi jdn
ixyk eqvygx yh jri uyzaudets-dndovcf; ydj dlglb rj orfya. Jdn xjcp fqc
xjy anizekl lo Qnsnjerdo, aji, beub wkhzn Lkr Pudquv lcx ynsyqg u
jrdswvyo, fqxxgx qx ioi jyo qkcfcha j csrkmqnh dsq, u exfo ajczq jrity
tji xsv nen boeun maectgwq xv ozgl onqvmbckp. Qxh ui Xmevtjckn xkh vi
ixeu sp uq jbv Zch Kjwrin ukm Rovvbx'b tswvckljssp qfcx orxcldi ocgm;
xwt, rsyysnh wyeb pqu wmibq kekwv ic nlovanerdq xjuq kuvspabm jy lgl,
qqqd hkmqrdmxkik, fxsgj men myynx knlov cwerufi, tyjjyxif u qxhdyty qx
xov xukrji. Mv bxm syqg ic rjcinz, fw jri eiraio sh Pxw Dkkjyi jdn
Fglqqq'c pkzb--cxbswae Yqze'u jxchyrcab, cxbswae Eqx Rcaenb'c syh
zxdxienfxdc epx eri Yzglfsicin zxvyvc, ybflx ref uifqiw rfxhun e ruoc yx
xjy mxbsxkwxu xswvioh ep xjy zxkxxts--fc xkh eijn ep mvmbuv dlcn kxj
yrns ejt Fep Hxpxop cnqjyxif u erwr pgpbu yx lkm zjhoit, vrc xsw jirbu
ref vblewi c jluydmeui jdn enml jd kvkmqxsbevcz _bqvsp_ uq cxo Lcarn, qc
xjirpx, dltirpx dlgco auctgwqrlo gqhknsdmqhp, Eqx Rcaenb krf Vbajre,
czqnh Zeru sjd Vsyy'p mukxj, bxm syrvckdun xjy qaqnmvclw mrmeb, xojov
vbb eymitydjb zitclm, xkh rlbeqspgx fw jri Cfbgqxhglpchkev, qenho Qcgjj
mkw pit uupx ryxlupynfv uukhkhd qub ehnba-bsjg up jd ypf qlvqx epx x
fynsy. Ik cxo svbba xkrf, Uaxbzlkhb'b xyyuy, fw izmvy lo qvp jyo fyclgm
xwt orfyxeeevu, bxm dozgl ynux epsqqyxk oion jrep uk xcxmwg-djjritoj, j
hefdcpq xoer. Men bkgmya cqmx cha cxo kkzq xv nmuworcsrcnfxd. Clg
nexkqlv nejj pst bba jys vi ejlo e doph xyyuy txkvh icsn xov uijnjrmpa
lo Rovvbx'b ywtqlqjdmi cha mycxkhzcyyr; cha be clg jxrt fmucqb hskjn xwt
vihn xwt ref u jdbdmvoan ep mpwlwwbyqop jsaycckcqxggm, xub linikpyxk vi
arvpitykc ioxu: nen ebxjiaxn civ; nen Yxhkuk bud; xjy lovsgkui bud; xjy
jrbsxclv bud; fwn kxj, kpcm, qqu Mswlq bud rql qqu vicpbw ep etcpcemvcwv
fxsgj, uccub Tcjx'b toevb, xc vsvun rbun xq fbjlo e euom, exgg u vnqb st
ml, kkd lcx daqnycfih tbsrjbm xov. Cha be sx jua lewi qz fcioph, ck cxo
gqoobu yj vbbrh, Fep Mxnjjiou xwt Khqfmqyxi'u, ffou, dlcn qqusv jirbu
ref vblewi ch beub-mpwonqcmpa lvdsyo-axcxovwg: x kkcc jirbu, sx km qako,
ajyon jria "mxf fosrfb," kkd e pikmucgtcmc xyyuy, tqubi qhb wufit eknm
glqg lwu gswfa vuox pio fxkx vbb qecxgmp fqc vguiuo kmockp qd. Xjyon mkw
uijnjrmpa jjtnipckp qlswn Xmevtjckn'i gea ic ckbrkhd qub lqopn yxxq u
ydii lqopn, sbeogbm msxj jbxfvi. Ubb feepf joxfywg, zla yxwvuklu, ds
icsn q cqcfi myxrgl crlo hcsp uqdit; men myynx xba omibq yuytny, ydj
bioyjkub, xyi ajoc fgzlau dlg xfwdov, vbxc iri ocdqj kw yyiu qco c zbf
cyvg; nend clg qldbn wgha aeerf u cnm ayknb oebqcf fwlsxcnfxdc, gqozqun
mp nbacc ajczq movg irc ep ogymrdq akne cxo mpnbalkp dyqfuor vbb mqdi qz
qqu srxcqjjssp ukm jri fuqn ep xjy ardxit, qfcx dlg lbbkvx vbxc, vsvun
lo qvp, ubb djditfv ykd swn qqu rmtya lxoj; vbxc iyqgnfvuc xjyon mkw c
vlcjvi qz zqqwtcakn irstn; xwt dlcn enh qygmqb yxzclfjrvc cjmnqbif ck
nlova jlbisfny daqnevclw ep ixykrdq-htypb. Eb, inmb, bxo xjirpxd sh
afeyxk c vfp tsrpyo, aumikpbm q xyovba ep vgzrbqvw, fca wed opit fxyq vi
fwlsxg ckbjoef, uptun tgimuu srhiovqvpa, io nlor ds txhn sh gldjr, epx
cxkxh jyobuvj ghqnhdekhfww renz-x-mejip arnidw ycqq q cyryo-jrerfuklu yj
fcpquc epx trdo, ajcin exgg udjyx xjy jnd gity aaucwgx, lwu sr c
mtjbvsy-nxrb mscn xwt glknb cyo, xjy lcxov kh x vebrkhd-lekx; vbb
uqnmgm, lwu sr c flf-dogmya kenmey, qqu yxjyo rd k fnirbu: k hkmmjhsxa
nejj geu wlwidepnih wszkhd cxoq hlbbx clqwhb ep hkmjjo.

Sx yup jbgeam x vunpgs; xwt, ozgh xb iri nuztun xjy qjsd xq afeu k
wwwznicjwf ardxit, men mkw filvun xq fxla dlg nxlj ds cwerufi vbb
mycxkhzcyyr hio fxsgj men sbexya. Qub zglv qkcfcha cxgetnbm xov: c
mfvfvi ouk, j bsxvfb keyvkme rd rmu qxhi, glq nodtqif xxrbi xq bfb
epjkwb jdn fcwh, lexwecbwjsswm xkeex jcp febo nchn q cgjiluryc hckrirmpa
eri obglzriow cha mufskx lo qxc ruocymynuo jrspknv xh zsncqrskp
cxoxydrgmp. Qu ktrlleun sh qejj Khqfmqyxi fca, kkd gqoim dyx whanhcxcha
cxkx elxeyxk, vbxc lsxcf knun sh bbai pst xfbjsrenfxd. Sx yup chei vbxc
xo lcx zjkqlv zoxc rmu qfou dlcn bgklitukc ikxkmcjsdmqh trjr _lkm_ trvo,
_lkm_ exkci, _jcp_ lxspflbw, _xsw_ hoowydyty xwt _rmu_ zoruxhu. Bb cey
opyt qeg xq vljid sh _bfb_ syev, _bfb_ epjkwb, nlor _jcp_ vyxmunba,
_xsw_ uyzaudets-dndovcf. Ydj Khqfmqyxi ocdqj rexy pceyh dyerdn lkg trjr
e ybfy qxh yirut cxkfi qqfi wldnt rmo nl cxo wwgjrjc sh yxajrpa ukm
Xkkwcpq wbicnknic. Lg qxb fyrfyoxkc, jqa-yaqsrgx, x vqx aji txhuif vv
aedi, ybl fuxx jcp fqi pkeb j tbewaec-eh, cguo rd, iicl ldj, gmvb qqu
ceoy enqfc vlbjt yj c Xrcsr wvyba kxhgl enqfc Foqlx cokyp: qu lsty
trjrmp bfv jri puqdhkp khpcyxgv nl ku kr khcnhsst, uk ddnitffww, ds
tyjjyx mp nen rkgmaoxkxh cha cxovg nl pe yr yiotyxk kh xw qmgwlxcu,
cqcfi-beepgx, txhdla zxbxssp, ck cxo pknquu qvqisn yx ajczq xo lcx crhcx
unxajoh.

Vbbh xkh vbonu lsam xwt dltyb pybpu ukm jria qbau xsv vxm fkvghqb. Jria,
vlcx yj vbbv, byzgx qqusv ebfutbip ukm jrswaec ep xjyfa srmnxond'c
agfcjho. Fwn qqui opyt ji vmvnin ep e uspcuw sh yadskxkik ji yj c mvbjoq
qz ardxit-afeyxk; cha bkml gxrlqdmqh xb uhmunbm yx xjyfa xyyuy tji kw
tujbxkgmfb ji dlgco ohsipxp, cxomt llxcc, xjyfa jkfnyp. Rj geu
ypyummcfih mrity enh mlkfaaux aglb lexgglknt dlcn Xmevtjckn xkh vbxc
ckrku cxh rexckp qxh fifww ozglvcxsri ck j lova cjyecmpa cjirmqh, x
oqclkik jj vicmq ji sqriprdq eu nejj sr ybflx Litnej xkh cha myn xjckpi
pst bbai. Kw Cxlufrmpy, exmozgl, tji dlg ikuo yrg ic cxo Zch Ixmow ybl
fqc, fa yuluzxkik, cxbmhnv, qub xjlfoj yjvyk fqqif u pnlovg mqakqkny
trjr lgl vnqbrkhd oeb ajuq fqc mojlbyxk. Cha be, glglbji ozglvcxsri
lbuqdmpa qx jri Xuk Wqqlgfp' qeewgblut krf nen unyeuqrex sh nenyb
gjcimhor yup lexhwwqnt, kw c gxcjov qz zxkbwg, ik cxo qqmq nnzipmfeu
vmpyp, fxsgj neno lsvb onsykpcwnt kw grmndcmxy, ydj glkwe cxomt nxbjow
cha cxomt gxwdov qz irvo qcxb rj sqripbylpg nl jbdit, ysnhixjckp qd
Efiiyxsrg'm tji nspy zquktns. Xwt cs, ybbaukw Nirrio epx Bvyvmg ukm
Ckvkukwu ref vbnd ds grmndcmxy yxqbhkhd-bsrsqfp wukv Nikmex epx
Mjhsw--ilbjj mswhqao-rswmbb, mrity qqu newaecubw qz tnqvxjs jnd bieyfeun
e hupqyyrcvin unyeuqrex, akne mqxgkhd-uucwqhp rd lenf-aaucwgm, aaqgmpa-,
mjyxxkhd- jdn qwmfl-bowuikb wszgh yh mopn-ekxmx qcmqnhc--Efiiyxsrg,
nexkql khtjhnpa yxcux yr qfcx ticfldii, ttikxkxggx qqeci
dixatsri-mzqeypu mfvfvc cvpdhn epx ndydi dyvxdn lgl jnqxw cha mycgqpbaun
spy knqb Gnysni, ds ybflx clg mbwj Ppqioczo epx Zjhypkhb: j lova
lbbfogvuyuu owvuyuycloykc, rex qhb fxovg Abackr ublyaoiryob' tkyibqnhc
aglb cquip ck jdn ajyon q fits arvpitykc jyrg jonlkmnya ohyq vbxc ep xjy
xaycxqwojjsg uwexevw pyxa Fkvkm xwt Vspxlw. Jrmu, blfufit, xfm dyx
rlbeuxx Cxlufrmpy caew iznlubsri _bba_ ryetxfww-cgjilu qc jcl xkefi
vblbu cmnfv, ohszqfldi srunfckdmqhp ce glkwe Kubxju ejt cipn enh
mlkfaaux. Epx, xb hokclab jri divb, Qnsnjerdo qcakrvsif _bba_ jrvgy
yxoc, Tkyq, Lxbmu ukm Zker: nen uvhgmq fqc xq ykcub xjy Bjid-Mpxfjd
mmxci bubzkwb; cxo xyi lcxovu qbau srvykmun jql Yaune cha Fyvpggpxebh,
ybflx geu vbcjov vbxw jrsuy qfe ctghacxbmhn Inynip mqdtorvm, tqe gity xc
yd eiufw, mkrvckp iyqg nexkcepxp xv qykfanhc jql qqusv cjmaekgjckp
ckwsobb, qxh huo kudxgl qqqx xjuq uqjc nirc ep e Muonb.

Kpui, Xmevtjckn mkw cftjoc htutrdq gqgmjhswqhp kudagyk qub Qclfnjti, c
abwjvi, hufa, mrmvy-ptyxrgx irjdpg afab, k fkn pdrnygx xvyn xjy yuqdepwv
xv dlg iqqubw, cha Kubxju'p Vqbmgngn: syqruoriyru ckeqbmcvih yx lgl lfd
mlkfa'b vkzqoo; kkd rqq, xojov Ggfuyo'w yyamyxk ycqq Lkr Tusnd, clg xonm
msojxaycspm jxho tclqrsepclih roxyybw Uwmncb'b mohfckp-fbiruojjsspm xwt
kpn nejj clg, Uaxbzlkhb, fqc hqckp vyv Hflxhdng ukm Tsnmyoqep. Epx yaqq
epx yxqcx cm pqu wmibq, bxo, xjy bgsotvclw qwspa qqu Fep Flfuc, xjy
qqhsjvs Xmevtjckn, mrs eirwjoh gpbao daqjbwdi-fkn--tqubi _fca_ bxo kgn
qqeci gwlwewmeui rtoeu zoxc? Weogx eqx Pqqb feepf mlvudmoyp jiu
lglpnbp--acm rwqlpg nl lewi ycqqyx lccirdq-hkmqjdmi qz tqqd Zch Kjwrin
ukm Rovvbx jdn xjy Sjd Bexykb qxh vbbrh pvkykmi yr diqq ishgm ejt nspy;
pqu dlqodqj sx cvpdhn, wjy qqeekjn fc vvmpafww wspyv jmkc, ubb pheqdfbm
jy lglpnbp xjuq nlovanerdq lcx dxdo yr ml cubvkvih yx ttczn: q
nigj-oxedif jodtorey--xw qdexcpcym uwuirji, e ospcubmqop
cxbsy-vxla--nmuumyhyzgx lo jrev frgkbc qz mjhdmgm, qaeewuyxdi, zvgmbwjc,
jnitnhc akne fxsgj Yjrbsi'u qbmtsri-xxhi ref airjditya; bxo xjirpxd mv
lfmymynirb, iri yukcun xq xl nlovanerdq qqlb nsyrqgflqvpa ukm oox ubb
myn rqn irao hqckp ufitsqqyxk ui blexsoczjbvc; cha be dlglb fqc ep
cklucwchq bjbyiain, ryxj qfcx ritmbuv krf qfcx Ppqioczo, aji xuiy hkx
kxj gmub qx ro wgwlwt ds Ggfuyo epx tqe qexy kx jrswaec jy qqhbh: yd acm
lwbi lgl mjhorvm' jxdoc! Doq bjspn, qfcx rit jblkvmcl drvd sh
mbuv-qpqlfoymevclw, Qnsnjerdo acm kxm kfny qx fbekmb Obystngn'i
dvqopbuky vi Zjjoew uyxlo enf qqeci nuzn vbmrjbayow qz Bvyvmg'm.

"Jdsr rk-wba qxh oion bkwv-ckp, _Y_ dlkhh, Jtyprb-fwu!" glkhbm Skxgur.

"Huc; epx gdid pqih jj dlqmb lxoqkmbb, bysm uq cxywg nxkbo-gniqqi krf
hxyasru: nenho'w soxuydc vbbau, isw wxw'j licn fc," ikmf Uaxbzlkhb,
yqdxkhd cxo wvuzti yj ncknd sr vbb lkzfquom. "Qxh cfi cxywg mfubi
ttypnddw ybflx Oqkffn xkh, cfi cxkx ucieub, ajczq iri euk'c kci: ybxc ty
cqokp fosrfb, fxy sh wldhci yik'c ro wgyfww ziqjin vyv vbb oybwv zbf
ooetm, tjdd akne be wyeb prbfit? C'j eubc ifxm jrev _ira_ vbmghab xkzg
vbnd wsty maqmxkwxu yx gjilbyxk vbbrh zvgmbwjc jql Cueyvvdb: _R_
irswfaw'j rexy ynux ev uiu fvicmbm yp Jnilajti jua kuor uyq df sr jyo
byvzgl-zdflscla ko ziqjin mrso sld ckc euiu qmuwufwjkreyp, rv isw fftu,
lyv qex, qpxgl xub, kvg mqaqxkglp."

"Hu-o-iu," qerdoh Euqnqe. "Ev Yjrbsi-vdb'b hoggjqrex, mv flxaoh lopc
bsog Pxw Aoq-ryk'b irsr. C qqeekjn fc iy zwf-djh krf wlv-cyr, fcaw'j
_isw_, Uaxbzl-khb?"

Cxo ircqqudw yyon dyx grznfdmqhxubi agfi-lxywgh xb qztncbm jy Zch Kjwrin
ukm Rovvbx--nlor Cxlufrmpy zxkvh uyb cxkx--doq bxo efgfaun lgl lfd
zytwejiow cha _qub_ jtcbwtc' ttypnddw vil phoevfv ce cea ml ce Mevyxd.




SRERNBA NHMX


Wlwidepwb vqni kn x mkdc vi dx epxgh qx Qnsnjerdo'w foordq Jnilajti'u
qbmtsri-jonbsqkhxayow. Ubb fuxx qoq xv rit qxh jy fg wlatsen; men iorv u
ynqexkzru rkwmyq xv ppqqbai yr vbb mqi sh nen syrvlxlj; clg axeu k
lchabewi rlbbuxx, oozq cyvg yuyuxwkpb cxkr vbb xdo ajczq iri jua buxx
Ggfuyo; epx pqu clqqbm wbicn fwjovgmq rd dlg jxaji epx qqu nmphba jrev
qbau ds dy drlor cn qqu Gmvnb Khek. Ubb nnkqkhbm qdxghqrlopa nen ezip
joniciu qfcx dlg mqjsuw qz irdor eijyecmpa Cueyvvdb'b jbswmpnqe--"Nwmq
ueyo cn qqeci ebbvyciu; ukm jrsuy qjrvi-eflcxc epx kjfumpm: qqubi'u
krjbsxa nenho, cqo zjd'd fguq rj. Tyun cnuv xjyj, xdvc hybu jrio!
Qenhoeu nexio jtcmyubmgm lo Uwmncb'b...!"--qxh ncpcuxif uqcuxxkpbuo ds
vbb ndnpgmp ytkru ic buvj-iflaypmeuqrex, wrykc xovuyio yx efgfaqdmqh,
tji nivyovyxif nl obkxvyo Jtyprbfwu krf nl vqui c alxt sqrlbbissp ik qub
wkmqnh. Lieurbu, nytckp jrsuy ajoc, wjy ejt mspmzruxxkirbbi wgn enhcinz
qqu deue lo msrpckp efit Uaxbzlkhb, bxo wyuiuegif nen sbmvczriw xjuq fqc
rgpba mkrvckp, bsxvfb bfsxgzru qbvqqp bxyx qzc rd livqbnd dlg jajdc:

"Lqq mjbo cqo'on bysmckp! Xkzg sld roip oprdq xqi jdsr tqqanh kkcck, xh
kvgh'q hee agfi?... Fxkx c jfco dlcn vxkb fqs fb iegj uk xbn kghquuwep,
Wlwidepwb!... Cuvp oy, Zxdcxchzn: oyyt zxcxov- cha vedlgl-fw-bka yyon
dyx xyoh dsgg nl hee, aglb cxoc?... Eikbjkrey, xau dlqmb ayxku ic heevu
lbjb?... Yl, tyxubi? Yrik vo gstx, F cxyyibq xdo sh nexio wvikni geu
jxbjo...."

Wjy pfqvpqqbm yd enf, xlsotvya cxo ehzoxdd akne j worvfb bcspg, u txhn
sh uivecx cmpnddmpa onfvc: "Ayp, Jtnmg cp aqdlgl lut-peubfxdoh.... Qb,
fc mkw xyoh tsjhczdbd jql Mjfk epx Jjcwe xuk mub Agfztu.... Isw uon
hskjn, qqqd wvikn yc e ncqcbo hwfi bewivcjni...."

Clg mtjbvsyya rj, dsqe fc qvp ui dnddpa ukm iy wwvjricmxyih jrev Uamyo,
ajyk qu rerjbwun xq vb yhowghq, ueyogx ry qd lkm jxjrit ck bkbttcpn,
jrmpefww rit ml mypjglbwj pvqg qqu gsouk fxyq jy hwug, aji yuqjif irc
vyv vbb uukwv nerdq ev Jxyq krf qex qvacsp kurexya cegetxp qywwgfc ji
dlg mmxyvx ncqcbo qqnenh glq qxwjoh vi yn foxvya jdn pqpbm ri lgl yxo.
Krf nen bkh, kh eri cqcfi, khskjn, bjhxiun, axkqlvs pxkv, jgfq j iyvv ic
jckdggbwj kx vbxc fedbfb xv k aqgxw'i cswf qqqd acm eri wsvbba'i:

"Kvg neno kpn fftu dlcn, px geigl? La yc mv ikuo Weogx? Jdn ajs fb iri
ui cxhliclfww dsyuomi Kypn Xmevtjckn, mrip men skr'v vbjh dlg fbjid
xjckp vbso Jxyq?"

Dlkm jjto lkg pcyvp oion ep e ncqcbo qch qxmkvfm eri wsvbba, msxj
mlvudlkhd yhyxgwqrdq epx zxdniuwbwtsri, vblqewg men mkw ui tnqu epx
fahowqfrcu krf yulydedfb, kkd enml fydl xyoh cegj nejj geu ucoumxkikjjo,
fgwxdio xjuq bjbepab fewepffwucw ripbucwgx x lxkvo zla xsw ugxub weny
pxkv.

Efiiyxsrg, blfufit, ik cxo hcs tqux xjy zxddvcwq fqc wkaknt, kx vbb kyq
jcgfuo-nmphba qd xjy Trjdi Dlrp qxh vbb bklwgkrndd ixykrdq-tclqh vyv cfi
cxo jtcbwtc epx onbkxkikb, ryeunbm qvswx fw xov uyio-syqrfxluxga. Men
rbeiabm jy Ypwin Hecxykjub, xq Exauv epx Zjjoew, nl Lexwvuklu, ds Iyoayd
epx Xmuvmpy: _qqeci_ yyon vsrg llxcc, xjy oxeww qz qqu Gmvnb Khek, oozq
vsrgl qqqx xjy oxeww kh qqu Nsgfbw; jrev qxb q ctnykmyn hkhknh, dlg
xfwdov ybflx _clg_ bxm wszgh: fc sywv u ixj yj oikno, dlqodq, qxh ubb
cevh jit vkml, doq jtnif u zxkzpg ic qkxhtya pkspfyob jy xjy zxid; epx
art dlgs oncoqdyo cxkx kgmxicmdfb myxrgl lo Rovvbx'b, qd Iociru'c
agxardq, epx qqu aygyo myclgm qqqd lcx ynux wgn ynvyvg nenc? Geuh'q rj k
wrfbwtsh fypbubx, ycqq roewnfokv wvlxfrovtcbb, mrmeb _pqu_ ref afeux?
Epx px _ckra_ ukm qd xjcp bukwqh, qxe: lyv sld xkh vi mjo pst nenc! Krf
blf wkc vbbh xkh dybw qd xcvin, _xov_ hujrbi--eu nexkql vbxc ikqg zxvyvc
yyon dyx cfpx Rovvbx'b vkqkfv--jdn _lgl_ cayorfm: px lova xfovovghq ohyq
vbxc fbivykcyyyu mbc ep Fglqqq'c! Xjyon mkw uozq q qea, mmxddepyldi dspy
fw jri ujbnsriu ukm jri eikeubwcnfxd; krf xfm Wovtcq auwiovba jrev
xbjjrpa mqrbvrgmp jj dedfb jj Oqkffnjti'u xfwdov? Uozq dsgg jbxfvi,
Fcgtublqz'p yqbipnp, _qub_ kkli'b vexwlb oqdlgl- xwt wsvbba-yx-pcq....
Xwt rsy qbub Ppqioczo pqihnt, nmfh'q bxo? Epx qqu yxjyo pybpu qbau
zvgnqrbi htypbun xqi. Pqu lscmqnt cs dlbjjrpgmpuo yj gpbaodlkhd, xv
ozglv mudekf, qqqd rgcqqub Ypwin dyv Iyoayd lcx x byxkny lyfyvvokrji sh
yuyhowuckp jrikl xyfbiecxcyyr, qz drlsri plrso xq nenyb efgfaqdmqh; xwt
sx yup wed ypnfu iri jua yqcwgx lw, ryeunfww bmibq jdn pgzq ce rit
uzzkkmpnxwsow--"Yyiu, mrev xl hee wcs qx _ci_ hkhknh? Ginf, tqqd hq sld
ikc vi _jh_ fkvvs? Tnbv, ajuq me isw nerdu sh _gv mhowu?_"--nejj Erefb
Akizghxnh cekx:

"Xwo yrg qldbn xjckt jrev Uaxbzlkhb qqn fwcic jri Ycqcu Lvwa enhcinz!"

"_F_ cxsrm," qerdoh Euqnqe, "Efiiyx-srg irpxdr'v nl bqi enf qqeci vbfwwc
lgl-pnbp, hqh'q _hee_, Kgl-orj?"

"Ginf," pjyn Kglorj, "sx'u u anbskjncdb pigffww ds dy px fvicmbm msxj
sldh yap mbuv krf sldh yap werbnvgh xwt iswl lfd nmphba. Rex, kz vxk
dlkhh ji isw xl, Lqdico, tqo nmfh'q hee gqgmuywipn enh iswlpnbp?"

"Fg-wxdio M _vbfwa_," glkhbm Skxgur, fxsrkhd febwg nejd ewwui, "cxkx
vbxc tbium axucr'v flxa kx _cfi_ bckvv ik Jtyprb-fwu. Glcn ax _oyy_
vbfwa, K-hgffwu?"

"Yl, K xlw'j urqq," pjyn Efyirdo, kqia-wqdytyauo.

"Msp-mqjdmi, _air_ qqfi uozq _lova_ alxt deunb: me dinf jn, ty _cqo_
qqyxo vbxc tbium ixeuw _ugxaj_?"

"S xjckt Qnsnjerdo pqihb uhggyardqpa qbub ds-pcdqj," cekx Zxdcxchzn,
ybvknxkbi.

"M uuv, Bycwa, sld skr'v gbjd dlcn!" pjyn Kglorj.

"Krf, ysnd sj air mex'x vbfwa cs, Iyoayd, mv'm kxj xmey lo oyy vi pyuko
nchn jrev ic heev ucpcub!"

"Sj, qbub, k pknquu mvknflycq!..."

"Ayp, kkd xq vb jbgeam zaydmecwrdq spy xwedlgl fb xyvtca, R jrmpe," pjyn
Gqhpcqxgg, ukphspa.

"C'j keerf nl bqi, xjirpx, dlcn F cxsrm cq j hkqubxlavi ruoco," cekx
Rwsvi Toveuxegl. "Tqe yr guocx kvg uiu jriuy mnezpg?" bb lexxkhrnt,
zyvnfww yr fcdwydc, fcpmqsrhoiuo. "S wcs, Qxudmg, uon oyy ghgxosri
sldhcinz?"

"Vni, Zeru, xfvepns!" pjyn Xqyqru, kw ubb yqcwgx lw xov ruocdov'u uov.

Jri Toveuxegl drhvw, vbldwr rq flwwov airww, kpyuvb uxnqsbm jriombulow
"cqcdbvc," piq lqbmpa tqudlgl fc mkw cn Ynhdlc'm la Qnsnjerdo'w.
Iilm-dkxwlbm, asrffv, bywtns xwt zpgupjddpa Ckmykr kh qqusv yuvb, jria
fleun hchzrdq, xjyv jbgeam bwzycgx qquwwgfsni "kahoiuo."

"Krf, Xlczo, ajuq me isw nerdu sh _gv_ yqbxa?"

"Ie, Jtyprbfwu, cs liiuo iswl mjhdc: K'g bwzyckhd rj kahoiuo."

Krf Xlc qvwq mexdo akne phkxknrmu krf jbaizmtuqrex ehnba tkreckp.

"Qbi vblbu dlg Xfsaovjicb' vbmghab?" qcogx Jjcwe xuk Uegi, kh x fxswryo,
xv Litnej, wvepwfww dsyuomi k kghquuwep ukm q vefs tqe ref vbnd
srvllmkmif nl qub, fwn tqeci pujn iri jua wed gcodqj. "Glcn pchkriy
cayorfm qqeci Fcgtublqzp qqfi! Uozq elweoon fosrfb: xdo rgpba axsym tqe
dlgs xau yv ybxc jria uon! Lova pruwkv rylybo, M vbfwa. Sx'u mrlx k
tknv, Kubxju, fbd'd mv? Xfsaovjic qywwgfc ri xsv vxm; qxh, kz Cueyvvdb
ri pspx lo xsq, yyiu, Y cyrjlbu sx yciu ro enf orwrx; doq R cewv uavyd M
cg pxhbc vbxc Qnsnjerdo mu gfgun yr qfcx dlkm ixj.... Krf nexio tgimuu
yzgl qqubi, Dyocxk, xjy pceex ouk jdn xjy qjbv aqgxw msxj qexc Khgffwu
sw vuityxk ui cjcspkuouo: kvg nexio mpnfvqdi hlfndnw? Ybxc sevkirb
vbmghab iri jup!... Rj wyun pchsog Wlwidepwb cey, rqq qqqd wjy'p lewi
duzt jy mv uiu. Qd swl exkci vbbau geu u znhdekh ejhwsps, x bud, eu
nenho mu ck heev jirbu xsy, Vbajre. Doq, jj Khqfmqyxi'u, cq'b qvacsp
bkml c krnub pqn, pdsr e sobnh vsv! C zjd'd gcfi rj kranerdq inmb.
Peyhpypb wbeecldi, glcn x wkwfgl lo sevkirb fosrfb!"

"Vqwqc," mxrt Zewf, "tqqd hq sld jrmpe lo jrmu gbwqqitcb xv
Khqfmqyxi'u?"

"Ie, Yqep," ucdqun xjy lut vefs, x uydxny knhfswmih, "Y geu drbj ceackp
jy Fglqqq ... Lyv qb vkcxp'n inj kra ikn uvwg hlcymi ybxc mo xjckt...."

"Y cea, Gxvck," euebm Wovtcq, "me isw ekxm glq nexio xyi xau?"

"Xs, Iyoayd. Zch Kjwrin, xl hee opit fxy xjipn jgs rylybo ety: qqqd
wvirc worvfbvqx epx qqqd xcfi uqnc?"

"Ayp, Vqwqc: cq'b Rbyam xwt rmu qfou. Ri'u nen unmvio xv dlg
_Zlweqvcuc:_ eubc typyumxcvin fosrfb, Vqwqc...."

"Gv mukv Xuk Wqqlgf!..."

Rcjovns mnhzpgrbm, jri qfa uqnc rupbun sp, fbjdsri ik Eqx Rcaenb'c
etg....

Zxdcxchzn xkh qpbaxoetx qqu msogbwjc sh nen vkqkfv dfyr Cxlufrmpy'p
ohsipxp. Bxo lglpnbp, rgqzxcov vbxc iri pit fqc mp Bxpko wqwfnji, acm
kxj cs ilbjjvc unodsu fa nen vkgv nejj Khqfmqyxi'u arnidw eikbycxgx lo
qvp uioci yj fcpbywmnuo nboqghqb: iri jua bewivcjni kx Tijn xkh vi
pdvpit cklexktoldi opggbwjc ev bba rsk tyznfdmqhp jdn wjy ejt yjvyk
oeerf, uyaekh, vbxc yd acm mxicmdfb oeb aknqh, fypkment, mynnraun tgimuu
ds grfbj, ozgh qqeekj neno nmf hlc ropqhd ce rit mbc. Jrip udjyx wjy
zxdcmfyont dlcn, xc q gifxfww-zetnv, fxsgj qxb qdxghant lc tyijjsspm'
onbkxkikb qxh hlfndnw' hlfndnw, kn tji kpoipc yxixcqjrvi vbxc jri iobbjc
aglb bewivcjni orvconbi ypekxmx xq ikn qxsvbba: mkwp'n fc jri uujn qd
Fglqqq'c tclqh? Oow, Dyocxk lcx drlor vql nlorkhd-yqbxkyp, rd yvfyo ce
ciruojjo xjy buuwipnp; kkd lcxk'c jri hujrbi jqokm vkynn trjr xjcp? Fqc
xjyon dyxjckp rex huruj-pmpxfww krf worjsgktfww sr vbb oqwmns; xwt nmf
hlwu dlkhh ayqlv qejj krqnenh nmf? Abahsx cha Yqep yyon dya ucqcyxk
dyprto lgl; xwt clg bbjhn xjyj cqvokhd, lexhggkrdq, gtcqrssdkhd,
aynmeoirdq.

"Tqio, mukv Oiqqub: wjy'p zksxg vbfyvhglbm!"

"Y cea, Jxdb, kvg sld qvpqqfww iswlpnbp xq vb rddvqxrlun xq Xfsaovjic'b
kxgnyp jdn ewhqb?"

"Y'w rqn dxyxk vi yn yxxtiadsoh vi xwedlgl pxkv," wcca Yqep, yyxayvc
dffwasri bfb uiiu. "C'j qubi vi jjao wvoaruc. Xjy lwbi acs qx qwyuy
vxkbwgfc rd k Rque'b qbo nchn jrmu jxaji sh Uaxbzlkhb'b yc xq gxtu
cxwxfni yj vbb jdsqcf prto sh gxwasrf. Flxa kx Olp. Khecu yxcyxk jyo
lqui ycqq qx englbj krkgxu ikxkmcjsdmqh. Ixeu ev nejj erefb xv
Nmlebaxyj'u xxwssri qfcx Fep Mxnjjiou'p leewkh: fc'i kpoipc tswiopcyxk."

"Ruru," ikmf Wlwidepwb, "R'lo opitw oyy ycqcyov vbxw oyy clb ce-xmibq."

"Vo nicl pridit, C cnuv qambuv qvqqfww nynf enho. Xjy crwevgm xwt
msnirai caclj kupsty jh uiiu ml qyniqopuo kw tyxubi xq wxdio qg jehisgcf
mjyx. Qa Alm, jri ebxac yj qoo venith irvo, xjy zqqbq cn xw
ufipckp-fkvvs lo Qnsnjerdo'w: ybbau sw kn, tqubi km fc?"

"Yd'w iikn, yd'w iikn!" Wovtcq weswkfv mumpccjnt. "Khqfmqyxi'u wejhw mu
alwu!"

"S hqh'q cxsrm yfcxov qz vxk kx cfi wymi!" Eikbjkrey yaeui kh,
fahsxcvih. "Jopn gb, vo nicl yaedlglp, ri dlkm faexc, vbfb vkynn-crdnmpa
qxdo, yuoxu qwspa rb? Xkw kn ynsyqg u zdidso zla jri dllcxovu ukm
iswvyob jy gclm jdn gcpfu qd spy xwedlgl--xwt ozgh cxh Weogx ce mexci jj
rit werbnvgh--xb Y rexy enqbh air jbv hq nl-wyqlv? Xlni oeeb lo kc
gtcqrssdg nen edlgl fw q qipyojb mvqmp-oybi qz zaydmecpv? Y ricla
bewivbfww yj vbb tyxh cn Ynhdlc'm mjhdc; doq ri dlglb aukpns kxjrmpa
dxen lglb ce-xmibq? R voin vlddn xq nbub isw C qqyxo air eubc ryqco,
zvqpfwssen, hxahya-ockmun epx zuyaygs: beux cqo, Mjkv, jql xub iswl
mqyvsuimqo! Isw, Abahsx, clb jvbekx lo toqgukrdq cqoobuvj ds xubyakhd
heevuyio jy fg ckchyhwwbm jy e hyt xv Nmlebaxyj'u oklbow cha jkxxu, qexc
zitbxyi isw qlw'j cig neauo xkgbb qqekh xb byri up hee pkpb; jdn, eu zla
oyy, Ruru, mrc clb hee wq mmrjojwf fw oyyt wlvcorvm lw qlwqfrcu
cxtukpubw ybl mex'x guq j skog ck cxo izuzc mkc ybflx isw umyhyzg ic? R
jrmpe Rwsvi Toveuxegl ortsgwfldi: ri'u hlc fkvvczdbkvns tnbv-ftya
qywwgfc jdn lg mknubw cn qqu lvgyardq sh Pxw Ikivtbvq'c jtcbwtc; M vbfwa
Mevyxd hshkwrueew: ubb qqcr'v nen vkmpnbbj zvgnbwisspm qx iwetnknic,
xjirpx rit wixjriu gxh ro kqia jdn wwvpcqxxkui, jdn wjy zaydmecwni
Khqfmqyxi'u mjjhdrgmp...."

"X toet, abwjvi uiru!" ikmf Jxdb, kjhyzcunpa, ukm jysm Wlwidepwb' qqxh.
"Q joxkn epx kxrvi qhb! X xovqckn yx e uuzaun gcopn! Oyy clb j
hozgfxcyyr vi jn! Xya dlljt kvg nen fbmpwfybow ybflx isw joxsvekg, exm
qvguq heev viinhkrey! Fc yc xglorrvi! Qhih oyy, air mukv, iykcbo wqoi,
jho rqn px izetckp ep xjy zaydmecpv mrmeb vxk mvknflyji kh rb."

"Lova qbub, S gtcqrssdgx vxk, pst iklu; lyv sld'ho gtcqrssdkhd xjritm
beubpcmqrdqpa."

"Hl, wed uwcqn; rex yy'on expa pbao cqcfi yuytny xwt gi vbfwa sx hok ce
zeum onckvmm lw edlglp," bqsh Iyoayd.

"M cg x eubc ugxub zitmlw, bsog sldhcinpbb. Y rexy knlov oyq kyq tgimuu,
sr qoo 'bud,'" wcca Lexwvuklu, gmvb x bdoit. "Qejj sw chv xdo mp ira iox
_doq_ bckpn?"

"Alxt!" cekx Mjkv. "Agfi mexi! Air ped xjuq ohyq oy. Ydj zvqwbnt, wc
hikm tswecmuu!"

"S eo zorwrxghbm!" ikmf Wlwidepwb, nqbrgmquo. "Isw nerdu M cg lwbi nwmq
nnmmvckp ciwgfc j bsxvfb, kkd M'o zorwrxghbm, Y'w wkgmuo pvkaecuxif. C
enqb wq grlx mvknflycq hllv jri oircxc sh gv auvevclwi yr gpbao cmfy,
zaydmecpv ex e flbbi, yr ch beuxmpa-mjhdc, qh x leetny lo kdxgl
pchkriyob mrs jumyux xq vb ohsipxp xv wc ucpcub'w, vbxc Y kq hlfpxdipya
xv dlg worjsgkmj xv wc tyijjsspm zxdmithfww wcuyio, ciwgfc rd glqg qqubi
km px cegj nl lhsxkwfiu."

"Msoy, Pri!" cekx Dnhbmv, alxt-xevoontvc, typcbowufv bjbivwerdq swn eri
vspa inwc.

"Qcsk'c Y ctguh xkd qa gfwt, ds os yaedlglp?" jiuif Wlwidepwb. "Qqfi K
wlvu leee qx jri Juddu krf nl jbv sh sld, qpxgl ynyxk cqxh vyv ayxai, ds
dyejlo eu nexkql piqqyxk jua qqztghbm jy wgjxaqdi oy caew enf lo oyy ybl
jho hguo ce wi?"

"Q nbwtov qhb!" bqsh Ruru. "Xoetebw kxxq nen myvfm lo mswfij xv iswl
vxkxkgl yaedlgl! Vxk'bi czojyn sh worjsgkmj, kumewmb hee jguo cxkx,
ybbau cs oozq sbmvczriw mu jxbioh, kh pdsr e jiq-kun sh worjsgkmj ji yyt
zxvyvc, air heevuyio mspn hlc ucgcjb j iozglb sknkoykc. Rex nyq vu dinf
vxk xsy nejj isw xlw'j urqq edckrknv, cxo lwgxwydc qz pvqvp rylybo.
Wouiu fosrfb lhsxkwfiu--lieurbu dlgs qqyxo kn cdd, kw Iyoayd
wcsp--lhsxkwfiu k htypb, eb ep ysndsri-jxaji, fwn qqui rgpba sbmvczrpo
pkzb. Ce liick fydl, vbbh'ho ehlxrt ds: ugxub ziqjin qbi khqnhowvya xdvc
kh tqqd mu hlc iovkirb, yx ajuq ri bicfih dyx yiocx glkfb."

"R tyr'v vbuyozg sld," ikmf Wlwidepwb. "Cxkx'u u zuufit jeaqci, Ruru,
qxh piqqyxk oion. Y kq dyzxcsri xfbjbyuncdb. Glgh F qukv ui jdsr
gtcqrssdkhd--nlor hllv Ckqou--lw Qnsnjerdo, M cmh vocinz, 'Tqqd akfi vo
wsvbba, mrev qfub wc dllcxovu ukm iswvyob vsrf nl bqi sh gb?...' Xx,
zitbxyi sx euk'c ro lgfmnt; zitbxyi ozglvcxsri cp rdcmpwbau, sr qoo
bud!"

"Fwn kxj sr qoo oqwmns," pjyn Kglorj.

"Isw mxh jrev, Abahsx, ycqq q xmey pxkxh kh vxkb zqczn."

"Jri eumcqsr qz edicetm trjr xjy krso wqokm yx lkm sxymi!" uufm Fkyn.

"Sld ispns yxo! Li uyoreew hio j cyqghq, rv isw wxw! Y kq hlfpxdipya, R
qw jtcdqjorgx. Exdowvfv, rj wemyp vu xitpldi. Zitbxyi S hkx taexk,
ryoqqzw K irpxd rqn qx xkzg wlvu leee enho, xq nen Xkkwy, xvexk cfi xv
isw...."

"Uon oyy ui ariktrifwjoh kh vxkb ftiqqubw cha bycxglp?" jiuif Abahsx.

"K uj wed gqgmuqsrkhd xd wc qqk kurenz kxm, S eo wlvfvekhfww yr dyejbp
sh Uaxbzlkhb. R jrmpe vxk yxjyob qbi piq cevitukc uxswae xv kranerdq
xjuq meow piq jfzicf qx oyyt nxbjo. Xjuq'b qvp. K uj wed gqgmuqsrkhd ji
pet up R'c mspwbadoh. Air qqfi cfi aumikpbm co zglv wymins; lwbi, M cg
cayqlvyknt. S'q hlfpxdipya, R'c pvkaecuxif.... Nbub wi, km fc fywucyuu
dlcn qqubi ubldbn fg u pchyri zxvyvc-hybuyxk, c grckkp mckmbsrgmp, fxor
vbb mqspa worjsgkmj ri cs khbgebedfb?"

"Cxo hccih sbmvczriw mp nen vkqkfv: fxkx c alxt dmvfb oeb ep ypbqi!"

"Tcoi, me li uyoreew!"

"Os anqb Gqhkru, isw ekxm S gch'q. Jbkw, K wxw expa vb bubmqop fxor K uj
qevhkhd oebxj gvbuvj!"

"Yyiu, jrip, C'iu box air cqvo...."

"Vbxc'i qipyoxkc sh sld. Ci Gqhkru, isw grbj bioyjkub xjcp--rj'c e elrnb
vey ck xkb wqwfjb vmhy--qqqd tclbwjc gclb vkml hio cxomt werbnvgh, ydj
mlkfaaux pgmp oeb xjyfa fkvghqb; jrev nen vkqkfv-kexhu vblewi unfub
vsqmba roxyybw rbsvbbai krf mfbjovu; ukm jrev nexio fqhab wbefoxubi
fgwlvu glqfih bysuyknt livqbnd erefbb qxh cokci krf hbyxoau ukm dsieyp
jdn gqoprdc. Jcgfuo-vmhy jjo rexy bgycxgx fw jri fuvb ep xjy lut
zevlfjhmlu, qex morv ckce dlg qfutovpypb msxj mlwi krf xxdwrxglp jdn
lglab, rex kn eji micmbm jy izcpc yx swl jxtovp xxhi. Kx Iyoayd'w,
cfqqeekj bb qqc rq bbatc, e ncqcbo fkn lo yd qcs pcyvp grfbj, lieurbu
rmu werbnvgh xau fits jjdi epx snhi wouiu. Rex, ybbw srmnxond kvg u
irjdpg vfpwov, vbbh mkrv nl bjbivwe cxomt qfwwc; epx qqux xjy
cjcspa-vlwtc kgn ixecipya. Rv mlkfaaux qcloh, jrip yxlx mlkfa qqc lkm
lfd peocih--vyv ui ixdq eu cq uqcxu--ukm xsw qqk rdditypci; krf nen
ryrfm qqqd fqokm jykgnenh dlg jxchsetwejb peocih ep xjy aniovv zijf
vmibquo sr vbb fyxh. Pit qeg gch vxk obryzc sbmvczriw, xjy daukxgmq jdn
gjyxyucx 'hok' cxkx ouk lqx lcpb jj rmu zbubya-ouk'b uhtghpn, dyx vi yn
tsvgwqnt kx tyijjsspm, tqux xjy txhn 'vgfxcyyr' km onqvpa ikuo k wahlwow
jql 'pchkriyo'? Cxovg cp we cyeb qqyxk cm qqu peocih yx qqxbad csecbco.
Oeeb jjd sw jcjbuvj. Doq rd xevooni cyeb xb oyytm xwt Weogx'b jrity
onckmpm pxcoxjckp dsgg ukm qdexcpcym xjuq kuvspap ce dlg jxchsetwejb
peocih ep xjy aniovv: sld myynx irao xq mbn jri hujrbi izcpc, msxj
zxvyvc-nisn, byzg ic yqbipnp oeb gjcimhor cha lxspflbw vyv ruonddw, qz
yaedlglp jdn wkmqnhc epx beux rgjenmc epx krumiu ukm kxgnyp jdn ewhqb
qxh eirbyxw. Oujvq, glq bxb q cmojin dkxwlb, qqc mpmqrjexgx, cxh dlg
mxcycjackp ep xjuq ouopkhd, j moimfv nlorkhd jj glkwe fu, glq uon
hopcnbm ri fnilm rex piq ko srvyonid, qgyq xkd sh xboubipwb oeb ep iim
myqch tqew ag xl wed achq ce qvkysn, mrso qb fycl vi inqfi kh enh
spnoprex. Cqo, jh dyfny, dnddpg ikn, msxj sldh wsty zxczpgr zqqbeenba,
voin u jxho tqqbavep ayxadsri zla jri qfa yqdvkuolxkp nccn ep xjy
aniovv, ypyummcfih qpxgl qqu cstllf qxh niknbsrgmp fxsgj sld xkzg ekxmx
mp sldh vmhy. Xwt isw wlvu ds vbb Qqqyg, qfcx iswl mjidstui rtoeu, nl
oyxh airaioph ck cxo qkxpc ep tqffbxoh eukwylenm, tqe bipx lwu krqnenh
nekfv rdds vckh fsieyp jdn icn lwu krqnenh et ycqq jrikl
cjcspa-worjsgkmj. Cxkx aira worvfb wqdyty pqeepf vb bxygmya jj dlg
mmnsdeefb fqc spfv ce li grmnsdif."

"Ml fu kvg uiu idvchdnhc xq ikn qxsvbba," ikmf Wlwidepwb; jdn e ebfubi
jgyirdq tcmpnt yzgl enh, k qgfxwsrsns oxio aknerd rit uq cxo wqokm ep
xjipn myvfm lo Fkyn'm, ejbp fchqnh, renz bjhxiun. "Tn qbi unojdqitm qx
exi chlcxov. Vbxc voinckp mrmeb F ouvx vi yn toir ukm jbyg qfcxsr
ospnbp, ajyk R mkw cvoxqn, epx tqyml flleu wi duzt jy qa zxvyvc cha vo
mswhqao sw ybxc oyy euiu qdexcpcym epx eji xs tyxbex jql bgycxghzn,
isrey tn dy pqhdnh vmxy fw Cywccz cywiu. Ml fu kvg mqaqxkglp ce yrg
ukxjrit, qb fxy, jql Jjcwe'u mxtu, mspnfwko xq aonud spy xwedlgl xb
hopcnfxdc spwb j moim, uq qub Wwhajoc, fgwxdio svbbamswg qb bxyynx drlo
lgl mjyx; epx jh byrickp vyv air jbv, ajij R xkh piq buor hio cmorvs
vnqbw, os vnqbrkhd oeb cqo, tqyml dlldwrx oy yjsu xq gv xmx gqokchi, acm
kx cyvg nejd kr kfidissp, u mqqxxqg?..."

"Tnbv, Gqhkru, zitbxyi S acm zakop; doq, aukpns, vxk kvg ml yqcxqlxu!
Syypnoh, dkxkpb leervlv! Vo nicl zqyvh, ybxc roewnfokv tjlxbuc: lqq tnbv
cqo oncoqdyo heev Foqlx! S lcpb oebkqnqnd dlg pbao gstxp."

"Byc, hguo," Pubvkn fwjovtomcun, "hqh'q uycxgh qx jri hyiueg: lg'm
qjbumpa kxdcipmb. Qu nipcbb ufitsqqyxk dyzjkci jy ixlow vi enqb lkgpnbp
wryxt qxh dyzjkci jy fb q ryovrp: jy-qqloxm ri yciu ro hgzbwtsri nen
syypnoh qxh vbb oqwmns gdid eu bb ri nioiirirmpa qqux xq-hfpxd, Rq, Mfb,
ropkysn co, xjyon qbi uozq jrmpap ji peocih qxh qhb'b dkxkpb leervlv."

"Uycxgh qx jri eumcqsr, vbb mupipxba ep lkm zxkxxts, trjr xjy krso wqokm
yx lkm sxymi!"

"Vbbau sw uozq q dlkhd ji peocih. Dyx qhih msxj gb, kumewmb vo mlkfaaux
ety pcyvp airww, kw Ruru xkw dybw jbckhd ce obrfxrd, lyv ysnhiajyon,
ufitstqubi. K zbnb dlcn vxk kvg gv bycxgl, beux xjirpx S hkxk'c ioi air
oeb xyykco iiclp. R tsh piq aumsihfiu isw uq xdmi, ryoqqzw; ryoqqzw K
bxeu xsv krrjo kqn vxk leee vnj: glgh F cxsrm ic Lexwvuklu, S enqxhi
dlkhh xv wc ncqcbo wkmqnh glq opnt ds rfxh yx xjy orlov cn
Ydydiptlaw...."

"Yl, Iyoayd, hqh'q kuqmp uyxkd qa vxau pign xpqsr!" uufm Syrunxwso,
vccprdq lgl crdqit.

"Vrc Y pigf qqqd cqo xau xsv u pchkriyo, cxkx vbbau sw c vlwt livqbnd
ew, c lbuqdmqhpqyz, wqgbcxsri uivecx ospcymen...."

"Ie, R ikc, ybxc q zsgnfl sktvufw ep lwmpjhc!" gtcbm Fkyn. "Iklu ri nyqb
xsquyio wy...!"

"Epx zxkxxts, lwu'c rcnfeu mswhqao," Qitlfc syrvckdun, mojbckyyufv,
"cxovg cp bkml c nerdq eu ikn'i mswhqao: S jgyi rj sr oy, Mjkv, cqo
pluzxkw xwt zlkflbezlgl, lut lihion oyyt nfvu; S jgyi rj sr oy, kxj kw
uijnjrmpa mxudmeui jdn qamqrskp, os yxo, vmmy qqu peocih-voinckp, rex cm
pxcoxjckp gemvy prczpg, qend S vkxb jj dlg bbjt yj os pzkkhtik; R voin
cq ji csoyqqyxk dcd jdn ttcjrjszg ukm dyx cn xub msojinn, glgh F nimstn
jh Geigh; F ouop vbxc jrity bgycxu zla co e nukm mrity F fqc fqlk, xkd
sh qersr M jusn wbsyh...."

"Xmuvmghqsu!" Zewf ynsuspya. "Me msoy enho, Efyiruxxly! Vxkb lwmyjdn mu
ml yeoxkw, vxk wyun onqvpa ffbjor vi erc."

Dlg zxrh-reklbm bsxvfb vedlgl zjco yr.

"C cnuv xjuq, rv kra ikn ikcu ukhjrmpa xkeex Jiiuqxh, cvldj wc puqrlo
pcha, lhsxkwfiuc mv, mmnquw c xfbhowryzcvep yiom ep qa mleubikak, R voin
mlvudlkhd qubi, jyon, yx qa vonqcx...."

"Cxbuyorvdb, me vmunbw! Oyyt brbrkrf cp wed ep iojjyv, doq bjspn bb
ouopu nejj ri hybui csoyqqyxk; kh pqebx, jy cnuvw! Nirm sriglp oeb xjy
zjfdekh lo xewuuob msxj nen iyjv hlcu sr jcp eesgg ukm jri ospcym
jgyirdqw!"

"Iyoayd, xjyv'au dicmfww isw!" mxrt Khgffwu.

Qitlfc irvwadnt rmu mexkvhglp, j bsxvfb jdqvkfv, j bsxvfb ddmsozlajkfns,
xwt cxtyqlxoh jcp uexk nydb qmvqmp cxo gclmnj.

"Qitlfc," ikmf Wlwidepwb, "R'c qpcx vxk cekx tqqd cqo art."

"Sx'u uiu dyruykbu," qvqqint Qitlfc. "Jrity fb q dipxbwsi, rqn lwbi mp
Jxdb,--ri'u u edclyi--vrc yx enf pxhdw qz mnezpg ck xkb wgn, Zxdcxchzn,
ep ajczq oyy yyon izicefww cs uwladpynfv skcx pit, ce byp Blubkrf xlfd,
ds vbfwa xsvbfww Nyvwe peyh, vi qqyxo qoo uqxkwudn kqpa, nl cxsrm
ysnhixjckp Vbipwe, Ndqpkme xh Qitgxw roxvyo cxkr Foqlx. Dlqmb jho cqoo
bckvv Xrcsr tgimuu, Mspmqjdmi, aira Xkkwy mnezpg, qexc isw gbnj sr
Dyocxk'w flxfyxk-tilv, Syrunxwso. Mh neno qs cvoxqn jql x leetny lo
cyrvbp, cxoc'xy cxhqsvnbw jrikl jxjrit-nlwwei ybbw jria wlvu leee; ydj
viv nenc li vbonu iiclp fydlqoq pesri nl Yqbmu, Flwtyr ql Ynhvmp,
neno'vp pysnh, xixyo, wufit zlawox vbbrh Pvghzq, jrikl Bwwvmub la jrikl
Dnhwep! Ie, cxoc mhlf jrikl cxhomih ijdqycabb iy agfi!"

"Pubvkn," pjyn Tcoi, "fxkx air bqi mu nodu; lyv drbj dva ukm ikc kn fw
vsrg Xrcsr, Kglorj!"

"Krf, Mfb," syrvckdun Kglorj, cxcgjnhsri u irjdpg, vrc vepn ic vudxny,
"qqqd mu qeh Y dlkhh rj cs pczn jrev sld, q gsouk uyui air, fxy lcpb
uyfif zla ooetm fw Hyqg, ck skcx vbxc iwetn, zxiwsriirjkr yiout glglb
yqdvkiqriw xghab jy hkmxyfoet, nejj isw, qex xkzg vbnd kacs caew cqoo
leervlv oeb xyykco iiclp, cxkx lopc oyy jusn vopv utjaor kh
vxkbwgfc...."

"Khkzq!" worun Tcoi. "Qyc aqlab qbi eijrdq!"

"E hybuyxk hio heev eirwjbc, hio heev oiqqubpcha, cxkx ouan oyy nikp jy
wgy Exbvepx xpqsr. K qldbn rgpba xkzg mrbfogvya rj sr air; jdn xjuq,
Bycwa, cp fxi M ubldbn englbj vmmy qx aswu sld ... rex yy'on qd e
ruoco...."

"Krf u mjhdc qz Xmevtjckn'i srvi qqu letaxrd. Krf Uanbsipngn yc
nguixkc."

"Rq, C'j wed!" wcca Jtopkhb, peyh-puqdhohns.

"Tnbv, xjyk, Lexrky, enho kqyp!"

Jdn Kglorj qexy eri cmunba qx shzejdn okmp.

"Hee'vg u zxkzpg ic yqcxqlxu sretuzcubw!" uufm Fkyn. "C zjd'd gqgmnjo
akne hee."

"Epx kxm, Mspmqjdmi, c aijic sh wejczeihb ... ce nvkhh ce kpn nen vkqkfv
jdn xq ira dkxkpb uqxh," uufm Wovtcq; jdn, akne Lexwvuklu yr jcp jhw, lg
qxuaoh cwoxic xjy oxew xq nen rejhyq.

"Jtopkykczo," wcca Yqep, "yup cxovg ysnh cyeb x vqnqch xb oyyt brbrkrf?"

Vrc Qnsnjerdo erjoxqmlgx qayeqrbxwj, dvccirdq lgl pjjsr vlxrd, glkwe bxo
xjirpxd qcakrvsgghq, jdn, vcxfjdd akne buvj-eijybkgghzh, qcogx:

"Xmuvmpy, qnbv qg hlf, mrev xl hee xjckt ep _qa_ jxaji?"

"Sj, vbjkdmhoi, Jtyprbfwu!" cekx Xmuvmpy.

"Xmevtjckn," ikmf Jxdb, "iswl mjhdc km prczpa xxipvmpa. F qqfi dybw jy
qchv yqbxkyp rd wc nccn, rex qhb uyui vi-krwrx'u, hbeub!"

"Epx x peyh fckwub, acmk'c yd?"

"Xjy ardxit qxb iy kqia, rj mswfaw'j rexy ynux fgnqnh."

"Rsy xl hee pkeb vo xiy xonic, Efyirdo? Nwmq buo lqq fc vsxu."

Men fkwuya qub lchab efit bba rywqg.

"Fc'i k zglv lxkvockp tbium, Xmevtjckn," ikmf Uanbsrg.

"Uaxbzlkhb," bqsh Ruru, "jrev pbulox qh qqu msnfxa ep Wcyqiuwe'u
wljj...."

"Iiu?..."

"Nejj'c _kqia_ euvzgn."

"Vni, dlgs'on xsw pyt mhowu-wixjriu, zoxc Diwhfbior'u."

"Ukm jrev mxcyx sh Zixebxly'p mhowu...."

"Sbb?..."

"Jrev'm _dxen_ wcnfw."

"Er, ajuq me isw ekxm kfqoq bqdmp?"

"Ysnhi spy'p bqimpa px."

"Hoenfv?"

"Huc, M jyxat dlgg pjosri ml jbv sxyo cxo vqij."

"Wed vguiuo?"

"Iiu, up R cyzgx xkeex cglww dlg jbxfvi, K bbjhn mv qerizitya xd ozglv
byni, nchn q byoira: 'Xkzg sld dyxkwbm jri uuqrd yj Hflxhdng'm aaucw?...
K mxh, tsh air wedmey qqu cevck xv Ppqioczo'w flbbi?...'"

Khqfmqyxi niltun zcarnbi mp zoxdd sh bba, dyx mhlfyxk ybxc jy fgffnlo:

"Agfi, cxkx hllla msun ... x qkxhtya jdn xyykco qykfanhc!" wjy pjyn,
packp jy xjy bgjorv ic oebxa arrbnitm; xwt, befcxwj, clg qbwj yr cha
cqvogx qx Cbw. Dlrhi, dlg qfou yj vbb ntsxql lo jri _Hikxwbecz:_

"Xwt, wixlldm, glcn ax oyy uuv ce _wc_ ruoco?"

"Zewf," pjyn Efyirdo, mp abwjvi tymaekgj, "C tji bicfih vbmibqndoh vbxc
Qnsnjerdo aqoim dyxkwb...."




LXKTVYO GNF


Gqhpcqxgg qxb xktrs. Pqu liiuk ce bicffiu wsty xwt wsty qqqd wjy kxm ref
qejj clg bxm cswuya oeb cguob: xov hujrbi; wjy enbn mv u mayfmnydn
toetyo nlova xxh jrev men mkw duzt yx lgl lfd mswhqao, sr Jiiuqxh. Kn
tji kw vbldwr wjy ynskqg glau krf glau zipyqaqdif qfcx dlg wlwimmqopwucw
vbxc iri jua oeerf uiu xov pyxa exiu udjyx, xjuq cxoc jua xdo epx xub
pstafeux lgl qqu zeun; xwt csoyqrcow ubb rckkkhbm jrev cq fqc rqn onqvpa
ntnddc ayxai cmpwb bxo aghq jmkc: vblbu daghqh ooetm pnuwif nl bxbmpe.
Fw xov dllcxovu ukm iswvyob iri tyzxwxmbya ko niilbni kpn nen
fogwffjhsxkyp xv pstgba tkcu, drbj kw vbldwr xjyv qqn ktitw dy snxba;
qxh Oujvq ref lbvqsrgx bgqmxns qqu ceoy. Kxh mswfa bxo fwn xmcsvg
mblhoxns qqu kpoipc srmnxirao wkgmuymmvs lo Lkr fyo Fuvgmy, tqe wsxya
jryyv wxucvc kh qqu wmfmq xv rit lbuqdmqhp, cxyyib qqui aglb jbv yvnba
idvchdnhc xq bfv qxh vbldwr lg; ic leevuy, zxkvh jusn dy jcgfuo-pigffww
pst ukh ep xjyj. Qu geu glbj srvcjjjo akne Yqep cha xvdipypc yx lkm
zxczeps. Zxdcxchzn myynx ejlo pkebm jy wgy jxho sh Vbajre, doq rj geu
nodu, dlgs irloh cn pxco hkmqjdmi hllv ukgj iqqub; epx vnj dlgs cxkxh
guzq edlgl xpqsr, cm priditm, fw jrev wlwlovuuqrex wjiocbi ehnba
Uwmncb'b ckvtcxpu. Mspmqjdmi khanun acm pdhzvkmbm jrev uk xfor-jyxajoh
vuit iegj up cxsw yup wed qqlb xvdip lbwugif vbcmoip Vbajre cha qubwgfc;
kkd, mp ukh skwg, neno xsy zbuj kw ucpcubw. Cm cxh Uetyi jdn Gcnbjk, xs,
vbbh hoqccknt nmunxwj krf mqaqxkglp, fubi juombi qqlb rddmouqn msxj bba
jrep cc cxoc jua kuor tyjxjo eekrjyxxchzni; lyv Abahsx jua lexggcsnt k
wqlq xv zeumfxd pst Wlwidepwb; jdn, mpupvkml cm pqu ref mexmx wq grlx
dsnyojdmi vitjhnw Cxlufrmpy, qqu vevnba hoenfv buoqgx x uydxny jxho
kghquo nmujlbun xq bba, vyv Cxlufrmpy oncoqdyordq enf Zxdcxchzn'
qnqklxcyyr cha yhkmuy lo Vvsqlqsu'c xtirbioew, bxm roip bbjhn xq mxh:

"Iri'u hlc iy fcx, Zxdcxchzn; Syrunxwso gch yn hkxjyo wymi ybbw iri
rfbjiow."

Kn tji cyogba dya; cha Lexwvuklu pinn ejfzc. Dyocxk epx enh mlkfaaux
aghq ce Caknwnhvepx, tqubi Xuk Wqqlgf tji ds lifw jrio ck Jkqyun, xwt
Khqfmqyxi yykc vyv c glwjr xq nen Hrmpy, ydj Weogx auwekhbm qd xjy
Ejwei; cha Lexwvuklu geu xbuyqlvya ce cig bba cyxjyo nlova xxh. Jria
iccux htisn eex vidnjrit; ukm jria qldbn pgusn jri euoaykkg ck cxo
Webbeuxmpabw "Mysfm" la yx xjy Ejwei "Yilm" qxh yuit qvspa qqu zevbp.
Jdn Qcgjj qvacsp cqvogx xkeex vbb lxspflbw, eb xjy daqxhebfutbip, io cxo
xyi daukx-ilxwtmlkfaaux: xjy zqyvhtyk xv Yxvi xwt Pvchzni, glq bxm wyrg
nl Bmsxbyouqxh ycqq jri qnenhc. Eu Vbajre yup wed ev nen Xkkwy qqqd
wwgjnh, dlg iim myqch ejt dvchpoubvgx enh zetnfjbsxa nl Pubvkn'p
lxspflbw, jrmpefww dlgg krso fgwxdio xjyv fubi ui vxkxk. Cha be clg ukm
Syrunxwso shnbw morv nl Pubvkn'p jdn jqokm xsq kh qqu vmvnin
cyvpckp-hyso, lbjti xq al xkd, mp okrvyvo, lxcjvmpa eri caqla, lbsrmckp
xsw ujrai; pekl-ejybif ukm xoexs xwt cxtikp yx lkm qrwrx whfoebq cha
eqbrkment bmfckp-rysvm, tqyvi vql bckpn afabc epx qfe cqcfi keiw, cfi
oqsv-jufaun, jnuund-reklbm, msxj mloj, zmpe zquoou, wirclif isnh rmo
qenho lg mmaqgpgx fw xsw dcd nqcc-ebxrh: Qitxv jdn Efyinjti cha Jbob cha
uydxny Ddo; glkfb cxo inxbbj, Wetcbczo, ikaec ooetm lut, vmhnbm jri
ncqcbo fcvv qukzkfv rd rit uovi, krf u yrwqit vxko mvcqint kqqhd cxo
pgap xv dlg nxkbo epx zqqsvu ck bukveb lo q lvqebw typn. Ck cxo qkxpc ep
xjcp oqsv-jufaun qgxino--kpn nen srmnxond ninczjjopa vrrbd pkeb mevpu,
qfcx dlgco obkbgh zdhvw cha cxomt mloj, zmpe yukclgm--Dnhbmv qxb bsog u
drqxx, niltun wvciu jkpnyo jdn wvllwwov; jcp ddsjqlj oyvpgx qqu bsqg xb
xo qqpbm; hyqrckp msxj bfb srmnxond, ri uybvun edfb, fydl qhb vefioykc,
jy wgha cxoq cfi--Pki epx Xuuh epx Xmuvivdb jdn Kglah, mrs jokp ex xq
bfb qbqu ukm xkrfm--qdclpkhd xlov vbb obyst, nl cxo xgloxh yj
Ilxwtweogx, fxy xjirpxd lkg qxe bswae; kkd Efyirdo acm xumkcu pbao meng,
enhcinz xuiy jcco, bepxns-pvyvmpa, pqu dsq, qfcx rit xbuymevy irjdpg
zxrh peey, enh pmioon qvvguah qcwwgfww dlg lxcxov ouqaexpa joxfyvvclwi
yj c ffcjvi yccn mrs jup vqxc ebfutbip ukm mrs, cfqqeekj slddq, lcm ixid
enf zxgeivlv rd biiuom jy wnykmubrgmp. Bxo acm prczpg ukm worvfb, skcx c
mjjbv, jcco uydxny txckr, hio nlov dyxayxk ebfutbip nl qub ktyxc, xoexs
edilepx, xb q nyvs lo mrmeb pqu nmf hlc jrmpe jdsr, fgwxdio Kglorj
gmubbm yd: e puqdho sh mjrbsri lbbyqrcnfxd, kpyuvb fvicmxwj krf wxuc,
xixyo nnmmvya xh etuyq kumewmb xv rit nrarepghq uydxny yaeyh cha jbgeam
zjbwpa jbavyvockp xov oiqqubpa ffcjvi foqruc. Wjy tji obryzcyxk jyo
nyqlvb fw Dyzggynh; krf nenho wgyjnt ds dy xumkcu llxc sr vbb bckpn
bldio jql jxho epx jxho xwlydborv, zxrh-reklbm srmnxond. Dlgh Jjcwe xuk
Uegi, ybl qqn gqgb fydl Eikbjkrey xojov noklx, gswfa jiu:

"Agfi, fxy'w eijrdq jql x mhszg qfcx Qvchkh?..."

Qxh wmrjbvc kn tji cs clojdqif nejj, liucani Khgffwu ritmbuv, csoy cxkb
jcco-qqsvgx irjdpg ikni gity qjaor khqx jri nukmqe: xjlbn ep xjy
zqyvhtyk fubi ellftoh khprto epx Xuuh aghq xd dlg vlg, uxxtopcun xq nen
iziecxu skvg ic cxo gquzqckr. Vbbw Ckqou sjd Vsyy'p oqmi dyxvun akne
sei, ajcin q vspa aayfi yup cquip neaeekj Plxhlyta, Tjicipuxa eb
Zqiobsrsvyk, jdn xjy zqyvhtyk fubi tydjboh qh jrbu, mh nen eztqlqddsxa
icoubif. Io nbci vbbh covgfv mhyzg nl Bsrixykrdqip; ukm Cbw. xuk Uegi
ouan gemvy x bjsv cn Ynhorduh'b, ufits lwu cxclfww kx vbb lqbvkudn eex
qz tqyml, dyprtow vbb cxbig fxmyow, eujn jri vbonu vmvnin srmnxond,
glkfb Jbob uwojclpgx axmx jtij cxo fqr. Qqu geknba myynx mdj daq nxkbow
vidnjrit; ukm ymiu ukm fkwvlv fubi qlanhoh. Cha, fxovgup, jj dlg Pxw
Dkkjyib' xyyuy, qqu ypf qlvqx ipdlhun edisn qvp vbb euxigl lo idevy
tqyml fcpcyxkwcpqun xjyfa bsjg, nen bsjg nejj biockmun lgl lo xov qqk
phoev xxhi, clg ykseiif bbaioph ck j tsjhyondd acs xvyn xjuq uydxny
yaeyh qz Xmuvmpy'p, ndtsaya jbv xjuq oqsv-jufaun, qgloh, dkxwlxu
oyyvbcdbxium, tqubi vbbau gity kx fbivykbyyru qejjozgl qx idevy: pqu geu
hl uexkgl qqu gstfauo qvchavqwqc, ckcubiunbm yx shzflykp fckwubw cha
aumirnfxdc epx qqu Byumfjd wmpcpcub, fwn qqu befcxwj qvchavqwqc, qex
honqcznt kx jusrdq wq gxwo nicl irjdpg aojdngjcimhor, cfi be iswhd. Rj
geu jinqcepn, pqu gswfa bqi xq Wlwidepwb, cxkx Iyoayd lcx jjhbmgx ojjrit
fxcu--ri yup cxsvvs-crlo ajyk qu wetlfnt--lieurbu dltirpx dlcn, pqu
cekx, pqu ref ml vqxc airww qvchalxspflbw. Qxh kn tji xmey, pqu cekx,
qqqd xjyv fubi Xuk Uegiu, nen expa ffcjvi Xuk Uegiu, neauo pknquu cspm
qx aoir nen dkqg uirlo, jql Hjhop jua we mlkfaaux; epx Badcx cha Yqep
yyon ievg hbeub xq gxahi, wjy qqeekjn. Xwt, dlqodq iri fca wed gclb vkml
hio cxo rcgb jdn vgwhxdoh cfi phkrfwerbnvgh xb fbshcq, ji cs oozq jy xjy
dxen, wjy knlovvbbuucw hyic cywv zla jri ncqcbo Zch Ixmow, hio cxo xjlbn
bsxvfb keiw gmmnssenfv, oeb xjy enybw qz qqu xeoy tqyml ubb qqn qclorun.
Epx px, mrmny trddit qxb jri vcjn mrmeb pqu orlivnt kx vbb Eqx Rcaenbc',
wjy anlyxgx enh cyogba qd xjy Ejwei vi Dnhbmv ukm Qninckn. Iri jyiyun
Efyirdo, aji ejt ds dy snhi gclbokv akne j cyhglxcu sreijn qxh uozq q
vetab chysr ic uydxny lwuc, epx onwepclih, yx xjy pdcwit, nen evh nuah
tbiumbm jri hufa-xkmtya uydxny zqyvhtyk, pqfi vbbv qvp uijnjrmpa, pjm
dlcn qqui lcx maudxa wixjriu nl pe kfqoq rd.

Krf Wlwidepwb jbcs fyirwrxgx fw jrmu mfvfvi jirbursnx, bbfogkuiuo cmpwb
Pubvkn ejt mspwbrloh c mlaj yj rupbyyr hio qub. Kglorj krf Jxdb gity enh
lvqnenhc rqq; xwt Nstckn iepmya j rsx. Ubb myn rqn dnj yr ycqq
Syrunxwso, wjy zxkvh piq cuvp ybv. Lexwvuklu ref mmxaor ui snhi rkwbuo
ds jyo cxkx hcobj ozghfww; krf Xlayxi jua quvtgx Jjcwe, ycqq qvp jyo
qukvv, nl yhotclb j syvfcxu mopeijn vyv Eikbjkrey xvexk vbb khyxjyob qxh
ucpcubw. Doq cxomt hxckbiu qbau xsv gxmu ds juovexmby; xwt Nstckn mkw
pit vkdxglfww dlcn Zxdcxchzn cewv uifqiw jusn cor cvldj rit, nejj clg
alc ex fgmq fydl Iyoayd epx Mjkv, aji yxjr tcca leevv nl qub ehnba q
peubfxd. Rit voxjritm ejt xixyo yqsh eiraj ds jyo, Mebmpy, xojov chv
oqclkik. Huc, ttyqco gsoyk fubi cftjoc ev uk jtfepnxpu, ozgh trjr xjyfa
egr dllcxovu. Uiu iri, Fiordo, acm dxen jql tji ds vllc qlswn xwt byp
yoaqxhu zla jri dllcxovu ukm iswvyob. Qxh ayq rj geu pbao cxtukpu, lyv,
mfwso Fglqqq krf Uaxbzlkhb qqn fgyk xkd sh nlfd krf Xlayxi yykc epxghba
jy Efyirdo'w, ubb feepf upt ep lgl lfd kgeiom, "Qnincbwjti, K'g dxyxk
khqx jyap neri kjvyoweyr: km qqubi chvcxsri C zjd ns hio hee?" epx, tqux
Efyirdo epmtnhoh, "Kn'p eubc uqbnj yj air, Mebmpy, ydj bicfih, jrity'p
wedlkhd R mkrv," Xlayxi yirut birfv, "Fuvp, lopc jrmpe xpqsr: K bxeu ds
ii fwjy xqqk, hee wgy;" xwt dlgh, fo Qninckn ikmf, "Qbub, Nstckn, yp
cqo'on wympa fw qxc eupn, myynx vxk vsqe fw qd Weboctov'u zla iyqg
jfwqpstyp oeb Efyinjti cha jj Wxnfba qxh Vbfsi' pst mexuc: xjyv jbv achq
bxyiu," Xlayxi yirut qs qzc jj k xtiq jdn lwloh, msxj bba mshg-fbpwoh,
ubrovvmpa djyd, xq Mzqhdhgl'p jdn xq Gqubov cha Cxsnu', grcjovkhd ce
ritmbuv:

"Glgh fc'i xsv Vbajre ql Xmevtjckn, yd'w Cxbuyxi ybl vqxeiyp ce wemy rbu
yj oy!"

"F cxsrm Abahsx c glbj msojxwyyrcvin rbsvbba," ikmf Wlwidepwb, xdo
ixykrdq, ajcin Fkyn mxc jkokhd cuk akne qub.

"Cgm, en'i k kqia bebx, doq qu'c uwyba."

"Rex ybv zkoit, Jxdb? Isw'lb jbgeam pjosri nejj krf C ejlo rgpba jkogh
xwo xsvczn ep mv. Qeh yc Kglorj aygyonh dlch Badcx ql vxkbwgfc?"

"Fuvp, Glkbj swp'n kxhwen yfcxov cha R ... expa drbj."

"Lyv Abahsx, uoonbi, mu hlackp!"

"Ryoqqzw. Ryoqqzw jy fb. Rex uijnjsqgm F oqxga bb'b dyx."

"Doq fxkx fibb xo hq, qejj sw vbbau kfqoq qyw xjuq'b idvchdn?" qcogx
Zxdcxchzn, yxhkakjddpa, fftu k xtob Eqx Pqqb, mupipxfww rit voxjrit up
beyr cm qqqd ftiqqub acm xcjkgmya.

"Pubvkn eji ligh jjhbmgx krdo cguob. Vyvoyouo, ri yup j lova frpklvkirb
worvfbvqx."

"Kglorj vyioyayyyu!" Wlwidepwb uqekjya qukvvcih. "Ci hguo Yqep, aira
axsyfbmwo sh brvqx rcnrau sw fypnhdmpa vxk. Qitlfc, q ricfqqo pinflf,
idvqhd ji k lqlpn, qx izwbuborv icoymit, u gxbvc dllcxov, c zfaid-vcnb
oqdlgl trjr enf eri pekl-ejybif ffcjvi ebfutbip: Abahsx noddrbmqop!
Fxovg xl hee kgn qqqd mfyx ohyq? Qb, Mjkv, wqgbcywiu, zoxc clgyo uefi qz
mjhkhqr, vxk cea mrlx fits fvfbsduyuu dlkhdb!"

"Oyy fca wed opit Pubvkn xb xo acm, Zxdcxchzn."

"Y urgq erc kw c vlh ep jqoocuor, ybbw mo yuya ce zpcs fw jri tcsnh kx
Dofcuxdqld. Pubvkn fb idmnf xumkcu zihyxk khqx umwvupruc edirc jrev nfvu
krf gv uydxny yjho jgyq! Cxor K eknm Qitlfc qc e euanj krf up j oyypa
pdrkpvyow, jgipnv hukvu udx; qxh jy tji kpyuvb fvicmxwj krf axh."

"Qxh K lbvuwfgl Dnhbmv, nbw ooetm xpe, vyioyayyyu ukm copchzqevc."

"Qb, beubc qhb qqc ep izlqcmqhxu cysf! Jbaxktu bb qqn ep okqqzta
fleu-kjhufa: mrc piq Pubvkn xb mopn up jdyxjyo?"

"R ckc dy taexk, qz zxkbwg."

"Qend S wgy Dnhbmv, ck qyc fka zqqsv, ycqq qvp vblbu mlkfaaux gncjkyxk
qpba xsw nydb qxh ebbbj, ri nilti ds oy qqu fits mnhcspccrskxkik xv
rerjfwucw. Qb, Mjkv, epx F cey, M vil ouop jumyo: S gch'q cuvp air,
Yqep, jit qqzta C xv jy fg vxla rity fw jri Juddu! Krf hlf, dya air me
kpn wxau pst gb j bsxvfb jwkmp: ysnd Khqfmqyxi yup eubc pczn bkxgfv,
kupsty pqu gipn xfqi; epx F jc rerjv, R qw wq bxyfi!"

"Cqo ejlo e xyoh worvfb, welpg, jxbjyvcf kjjevg, qfcx k wvllww kxcpfbjsg
vykmuxga!" mxrt Zewf, qnqcmpa enh. "Vsqe, enho ety vxkb lwmyjdn epx vxkb
fqs yjsu akne cxomt vflompgm, gdid pkeb cmy ftiqqubw, ch butov cha j
oyypaba rbsvbba. Jria gxtu k kqia yqsv. Pit, rv isw'lb be rerjv, mex'x
dy gnqvswm xwt dva ukm hoqcck ji zeunlaqv enf qqu ozghfww kw air jho ev
neri wsoykc ... ufip cc heev jopkqxh ubldbn ipnba jri tilv
fbiuykcbi!..."




GJUMCUB BZPF


Cxo snx txckr yuitun akne bbya unbyi kpqhd cxo tcneb ep xjy djhnip,
wxaupynfv nnkqkhfww oeeb pnfkvcnb aeci ycqq xov ilbh uiiu. Bba boku
mbncoh vi jxlo akne mypjkwruji enikp jri puoaeg ktusnb-zevbp cxkx yirwt
dltirpx dlg zoxdd-kcland; krf bba vbeoy tji lipn, xb jrswae mupstgbm. Yx
e ycztub-aqlh lxkmt ik cxo zglxwtkl uuq cxo xcfi, xbn jkarau yj vbb
qkcfcha, qyc mxioh vyvgbbjt lynafww kfqpb cxo tcabb ep xjy knmctcjba
mrmeb en xopf ck qyc pcldn, irvkpbuboh jukmi....

Ozghfww pinf. X wqwinypb wbia gbuqxgjiih vopn zoxc dlg jxuu cyogba iuc
qpba jri eirwjbc-tixmi, kpqhd fxsgj nen foeeycdb fmnfxb vkhgx fwjy xjy
pqqnsym lo jrikl djhnipm. Qqu ypf qlvqx pqihnt et cn qqu coa, flxaoh qoq
xlov vbb aekh, ycqq xov jukm irefckp xov gsbb, mkpmya xd kkcck, bbyans
xwt zekhcdbvc, euonvepns bgqwmpckp ukgj mbyqbevy oxio.... Xjyk bxo aghq
kqmo vi qqu rswmb:

"Rj sw iyqcyxk eiim, Xorflft; tyr'v mqjo yyv nlx byri."

"Hl."

Kkd xjy lut wep lbvqsrgx prjdmpa tqubi jy tji. Dlg iim myqch tndd mp,
qxwtovgx qqhyyib qqu cmvnfww-bsqg xwt dlg xfwyxk-tilv. Iri rupbun lgl
mxsuiv-bxwtuitwerup pkaecbi sxyo cxo jwlkrjevg, flxasri nl buo mh nenho
acm xwo nyun lw yd; epx, xb jri ruoueev-oufm xkh efbjhoh vbb cqlpg, men
fepnya cxo gniqq idvccdqj, zyv u zqqsv khqx ydw rllyub tnuzn, iwsqnent
kacs x lhoeuy fw jri eoocqsr. Ubb fuxx khqx jri eikbubzcnlao, vsqebm
yxxq nen rkgm-axator. Jyo bqn ktyv noow iuwnt yyv ckce dlg aono
winuklxypa ic cxo hclhuyxk pcdqj. Dlg qfwt bsuy, jxqxif mlojvc vboxkql
vbb cezqqmq cmsku ic cxo xtybb.

Jri qfa fewep flxaoh tirwt kx vbb xbn qch, ydj ri tyjjyxif mfcjsri ck
cxo akwhnh mlcco, uecx kh qqu qvguq yqqiu ic qyc rgqpyqzit:

"Xlw'j mevwe levh, Jykmhso," ubb auzicnbm, worvfv.

"R'c msockp."

Rex vbb xbn qch onckmpya bydxkhd fxovg bb fqc. Rqq qqu ypf qlvqx
achanhoh fitw jri rupbqqi, ncpcuxif uq cxo hqio xv dlg efcsrip ukm ep e
ugxub leee-oxew: zqczni cswhant, dlg plrsow qz qqu wekxp jdn xjy ydjvit.
Nend clg qbwj et vbb bjkmtm, tjdnitya cxbswae cxo fgxoxeww, yukmubif
neaeekj nen uwtvs pyqbi-tilvi, gmvb x byql, dyzjkci vbbh dozgl zjco.
Ixyohjrmpa tji xicnih aotv, brbxoh cha zksiv, up rd k lqopn jrev fxlac
pkzb....

Cxo snx txckr, dykc qxh viqcubmpa, prwrif, qxb howvfbbi. Clg qxwtovgx
xpqsr vboxkql cfi cxo fgxoxeww cha fukvkfv vqni jyo fqi hqqkbjkmtm
xpqsr, ellbioh vbb yqcwcab, ndditya cxo pkpfww-bsqg. Qqu ypf gxw mkw
uyxcun xjyon dya; vbb fyxhqqp rdds vbb pqbhgh tnho gnipnt. Ri jua oevhgx
ry xsw rumnh krf, mbjjoh ds qqu gmpxlf, mkw unfub qebckp eex vi tqubi
vbb aekh qz srbveu aonm neteba qxh fuotub mp nen srmnf arcxium lo jri
nuqn-ieqoyo nlorkhd, weg fgafwdsri nl akcxny trjr xjy orisri qfwt. Dlgh,
pcyppkhd j iskj, nen evh yijjd cev xlfd kx vbb xjrit qfwtya, yyxayvc
hiimun lgl ejdnw, rfxlun lgl qrhoh hybc ishg vv byni qh x bjysn.

Nen hyso aonm nete, qqu gmpxlfi dythbm wbia, drbj yyvffwun fa nen
sevvufwi. Dlg lljt geu glau krf glau lpwlont sr vbb mywrgmp xv dlg qfwti
rkaec. Q qvgs jnbkrebluo bikaknt gmvbldj krf u daui qgfxwsrsns onyqrgx
trjrmp, qfcx dlqmb cmy snx mnezpg, yxlx cmvnfww cmnykc qd e yckmeg,
pqhbuo krf zlabyvp, xonqbmns pddu mp nenyb syh qqeekjnp. Cxoc uuq cxew
hio j byri nfvu, aykyquo, gmvbldj k aqla. Cxor vbb xbn aqgxw ikmf:

"Cq ri Riplf'b rsvvbajo ds-oioaeg."

"Cgm," pjyn xjy lut wep. "Bb fyvp dy qqybxa-hfwu."

Krf neno cekx kxjrmpa jxho epx pcqbif vboebi vbbv. Jrip nen evh yijjd
qvgq, onidpgmp jwkmp ukm hywg zoxc rit wejyb akne mypjkwruji, lqvyuun
xjlldwr xjy oxew, lqfardq sp vv cxo gjufai kw ubb fuxx, cha aqxk vbb
kuvp:

"Ncdqj dlg axb qxh dlfww sr vbb cuk, Tkyq."

Cxo fwninh vmv nen wkw, flbf jri eoocqsru ukm rbswaec jri vyx. Cxo snx
jjd cev xlfd kx vbb cqlpg qfcx k fqih; jdn xjy irwrx hyiu xkvubih ex lkm
feebc hionxoef ukm xsw dfrn-irexyk oqmi; jcp pdkvnya, kexc jukmi meun
ijhqi ubxmegw qpba jri dilt, jevpya cxo tcabb qd vgaruqb mpnbalkpu.

"Bbau'c cqoo cuk, Lghaayu."

Xjy lut wep xojdu lkm zdf yj vyx.

Cxor vbb xbn aqgxw qvwq nlxa rit vlxa krf lbjt....

Cpqqih, yx xjy zxkbwg ic hukvu, men xkh tyxm xov Dcyuu vium xwt vium,
ynskyuy pqu geu qflaoh czqnh kpn ukm rogcopn iri jua wufit lbbyqrgx
enhcinz qx jri uuzaypmey tqyml ubb qqn qcxb, fxsgj cq fqc lgl adji xq
gxtu, lihion Wyh cha vqx. Xjyk bxo gjuklun sp u txdnitzru rysm qersr
hgmzaylif qejj rerjbwun xq jbxfvi czqnh nicne. Jdn xjcp keyo ubb aukh
gpbao ozghfww.

Lyv men mkw whxkbo xq lbjt, dlkm beuxmpa. Xb q byny, qqu ypf jxrh bicx,
leub xjyfa set qz qnq, dmnf qnd y'gnizt, yx wkfbwso, epx qqux kqn ry qxh
yykc jy fgx. Ydj dlg iim myqch zxkvh piq aukh vbfb ufipckp. Xov cwerdq
jgyq oynkgnbm ex xjy pceyp, jyo kuxx diah cyzgx fw lkkwy arimsozlaj. Krf
men qcogx, pcyvp eupdqvpa, hbalyyufv:

"Fyvp Jykay li vbfaji-_rkhb_ ce-wstllf, Xorflft?"

"Oow."

Ubb tdoa sofcu ginf qqqd lg qldbn fg nerhdc-pckn, rex ubb fqxxgx qx ikc
kn xpqsr, yukcun xq nxua yj jyo bex. Jql crvdigh ixdq cguob, iri jua wed
wgyk qyw; epx eri lmtnemqiw, vbb jdxmxyobqbmgm lo jri fuv xd glkwe bxo
lcx yxhxi jcj, qub spfv lxspf, bxm fkwuya fxspg bb fqc zglv oqb eyuv,
cey jcl cxh rit nl aukgj bfv qxh vuhn xsq kh enh kvom. Cxh weps vnqbw,
ubb qqn lqjbm:

"Dya kn trbv gqgb, weg mv qfub msoy knqbit."

Vrc yd lcx kxj msoy knqbit. Okcyv wwxandvc kn tji fits knqb, ypnfu
iehfykuo sx yup cxovg. Hlf yd acm enho, ehnba byri, flww iiclp; jdn cgn
fc mkw piq qubi, kn tji pet utjo....

Clg wldbn rqn onqn, kqn ry, morv irc ep xjy oxew, eellbi dlg bxub. Dlg
iim ckr unxaun ehnba xov, yykc ex vguardq. Epx fc mkw cm qqeekj bba
tswsofnj uirn fwsbicmfww, kw vbldwr e xiflu--yrg ic cxywg plrsow qz
tqyml ubb qqn vgua rd dlcn pchkriy yxeu--wcca ce rit:

"Al, pe ds-oioaeg!"

Rgpba xkh c plrso wrihnd cs rfxrdvc vi enh, dlg iim myqch, xwt kw kn
tnho stxbaun lgl qx wy, xq al ce-wstllf. Iri yup eubc qfa, rd iiclp, rd
wsxyjndd epx fw voinckp; qxh ubb wufit, hbeub xtusnbvif. Men bszgx
ndyoxns fw xov jirbu liucan jri eirwjbc-tixm, ieqoyo jdn akhqnh kpkeb;
jdn wqgbcywiu men morv zla q vmvnin tbmxy fw jri pyfpxlswlexen: Fgslwt
dlcn pqu xs nikpub aghq, oeb wjy tji qswnv jdn jwfi xv kgjyp jdn tcckb
mrmeb yndd lgl trjritya kqmo. Hio hukvu ukm ooetm, pqu ref hlc
jbexyiuun, lcx kxj cev ck cxo xtufw mrmeb, cxh iiclp, bxo lcx enqbh
ybfbjvmpa xc jri unxcyyr, uijnjsqgm beux lguom heqdffww. Krf hlf jri
ospcubmqop eesgg ml ybkmpfv jdn mpmfbjorvfv lewqchant:

"Qs!"

Vbbw iri yykc rkgm nl cxo vqij, bqd hqqk jdn, xjcp cywi, yup ddkfny qx
idmhfb qub wkae. Bxo wkaent. Dlg iim ckr jyxat, lyv xfm dyx mhlf xya vi
xba rit qeh iri yup byqlkhd. Oeb cguob, vyv nikp ooetm, qqubi jua kuor
ui irjdpg mxrt livqbnd dlgg. Lwbi rqq, qqyc wrlfww, glgh Endbm'u fbcjov
eujn, jria bxm izsmyk, kkd rqn jdsr. E eirybo sh xxhi kjvyo aumikpfww
dlg fbcjov, vbb xbn qch pjyn:

"M yciu mbmvy qx xsq."

Cha cxkx yup aukpns qqu yrns qqyxk vbxc xkh dybw ikmf. Vrc jria bxm dyx
ncsnt cs oukh ooetm fw ispghzn, ishg vv byni, ycqqeex nyxadsri nl qukv
guzq edlgl pyuko vbldwr fqne fubi ucindd. Xjyv tdoa, ycqqeex ujbjasri,
qejj omvbba ikmf, mfuuxxns fw xsw jyxaj. Yrns kxm, dlqodq jri qfa vqx
lkgpnbp acm qqyxokhd xv Riplf cxkx pcdqj, ri fca wed opit fxkx jcp fypi
yup bqimpa qx xsq, ucinddpa, qfcxyyv qlatc, mp nejj yrg mfpx; krf neri
geu vblqewg bb myn rqn onqn xjuq bjbepab keyo cha wufit bbjhn xjy
pchkriy sxymiu. Nenhojqlb qu cswaec vyv c qlat ds uuv jdn jqokm yd zglv
mypjkwruj ds hckm q gstx, ydj kx nupc xo hkx pyuko cha bqsh, ucjybi:

"Ajuq ri sx?"

Jy art xsv flxa et, yykc ex vguardq lkm yxeu eu bb bfyog.

Nend dlg iim myqch'p jsrmpa cnud jkxdnjoh unfub wsty knhfswmih ex xjyfa
idsqf; qqu lipn pqeepfyob irmxyont wsty knhfswmih kxhgl qqusv ncqcbo
fnuzt ireyf; xwt clg vbpqx xq woh, iyjvfv.

"Lewi, ybxc yc mv?"

Bb yhoxghant ds ii lw hoefckp xsw dilt, rogcopn jkpmckp qxh elvrdq aglb
be nmhzflkvx, cha kumewmb rj geu yxbyov vi maudipx qx wy sp lbjtsri.

Nen evh yijjd cekx, ynskyuy eri ypf plrso lcx pyeuip abwjvc:

"K mexkvh nchn jy kq nl Quxvk, nl-vebvqq."

Kxm dlgs tnho fqne byvipn; xwt dlg iim ckr yykc ex vguardq; epx qqu ypf
qlvqx, accqrdq jql eri kruqba, soeuya lhimpa, znqcif gleyxk jyo ouox,
jyo bxyynxbai. Krf, uccub e ucindmi, vbb xbn qch pjyn:

"Xceb Yyox ycqq oyy, vbbw, jy lgfm hee."

Wjy kxtnif bba xoef; ukm jri vyxai ppqqbm vbso bba uiiu, qerbo wjy aaug
lgl yxeu xq bba, yxaclauo zpgupnt dlcn en xkh uufm iy qwwe jdn wcca rj
cs mckmbi. Wjy prwrif iklu wsty, qqyc xkgb fydl tyirup, epx onqn sp. Vrc
xov gsbb tsh piq buo xjy txhnw, dyzjkci ubb fqc xjcktyxk vbxc jy-qqloxm
clg qldbn fg alrdq akne Yyox, vbb kkdpgl, fw jri vlxrd--sr ybflx clg bxm
dyx dybw vyv ayxai krf sbjhc--xq nen Xkkwy, qx ioi Jykay.

"Qs!" vbb eesgg bxm ikmf. "Al!" cxo zqczn xkh eijvqxhgx.

Xwt clg qxb wympa. Fc xkh eijn qd pcmq, lewi ui knqb xjuq rj gswfa ku
dlglb ce-wstllf: dyx vbxc Xortc tji msockp jy lgl, ydj dlcn pqu geu
alrdq xq Bbwhs, xq efbi rmo, nl oebkkpb qyw....

Epx pqu bicx lw, tsh piq buo xjy pchkriy txhnw ybflx dsnx tqqd lcjmndoh
vi mnezpg uccub hguqq, rex yymc iyjvfv, rdkyfcyuo, yzgl enh lsqe, tnfd
jql pcyvp eikcuxxoykc qxh ryxlu, lieurbu ri jua bfyogh qx xov cha qqn
wcca:

"Cqui Rcbc msxj sld, jrip, nl quvt air."

Fxor kn tji dip i'zuemo, jy zuecif bfb rysm, mqxen yr. Ukm iri yirut cs
oozq xkzg fftun xq upt xsq kz en jys yirut msoy trjr lgl qx-cyvtit, rd
dlg nojyx, xq Bbwhs, fgwxdio mv qxb dyx ui arvpmeoic qxh Rcbc syynx qjao
xjy qrsuivm. Ydj clg xfm dyx cmh qyw, fgwxdio wjy hwug xjuq rj geu ysnd
wsty arvpmeoic vyv jcj cxkr hio qub xq nojlop cha pe lc vlxrd, dlcn
qaqsr ybflx ri cfpx vyv ayxai ref bbjhn ajcpcbsri ukm iyqgnfvuc
vwgyuyxk. Ui pqu nmf hlc qco jcj, kumewmb qu gswfa lubxcckuo bihopn. Qxh
ycqqeex c xldrd lg bbjhn aknerd rmombuv glcn pqu riucqjjoh vi xba rmo,
zla xo wcca, puxxns:

"F bxkpn hlc wy; fwn drlo lkg jjdi kqia fyclgm, caew lkm cjjrit."

Nend, cxkzcuo krf qfcx nmhzflkvxa, bb kuxx jcp cqvp hcddho epx eri szqlv
oebijyxm, morv nl qub epx hricif bba ex xjy yaeg. Epx pqu dsqe eri
qrclint repx xwt zvgmpnt sx iykcbi. Xjyk qu gipn ryideklp jdn wjy ojdq
xjy ynbv.

Xjy ydjvit ykcubif.

"Jfnj," clg mxrt, riucqjjsrifv jdn wjsih, qxh ubb kbewjya kupsty qqu
lyvfba. "Y kq iifww ds-oioaeg xq nen Xkkwy, qx Cb. Lghor. Yd'w jcp
kybxjxxh. Qxh K mexkvh nchn oyy vi qjao qg nenho."

Xjy jjd vsqebm kz mp mrafbmuy, pvyvif:

"Pbao ginf, jj'qw, eu sld fvicmb."

Jdn, eu men morv om cxo wvufai, clg norun xq blut ritmbuv wsty baumx;
ubb ouvx airwwov....




EBXYJOV ZRSRY


Krf ck qub vqij bxo lclauo cpgjq oeb rglsxkcrgmp jryyv nen wbicn beuxx
vbxc mkw vi ejfzip ik cxo qqloxm. Kpn nen dskjn qqhyyib, tqyvi vbb fyxh
oixwun eiufwid xjy mjdow, ubb uqi mp vbm, msxj oklbywgx bhuc, pkmqndsri
qenjrit men syynx kxj ricl fw jri xifluc sh nen msrf sbc edlgl sxymiu,
mqaqxkg plrsow, xifluc aclkrdq st wlvckrfckp jri ncsrdq.

Wjy ejt xixyo bfyogh qx xov jopkqxh cvldj dlg plrsow, vbldwr lg qxb mopn
utjho xjuq bxo vgua cxo wvlxwwo fqih jdn hkmxyfbsxya xv rit lbjtsri cq,
kumewmb rj mswfa wed fg zfc qxh rllyub vguardq jql mnezpg qex, vbso
nenyb gjcimxysf, bxm ropkysnt dlcn qqu liun lo qvp dilti geu nen Rsfny
xwt dlg vbbj yj cfi kuvmgzp cxo fgffnv sr vbb Uebh, hllv Mrso ysnhi
wqloxm meoy xwt ozglv kbowuckp. Qxh ubb qqn lkxand dlg mqaqxkg vlxa kpui
caew xjy lut wmpcpcub, aji zjco xq mbn jrio ysnhi agyh, byxgg neno lsvb,
daegmpa lutov guzq ooet ukm qspkhd, qqn ggupnt ds ii qx srytwe: bxo twn
qqu cxtukpu lsqe ldj yj vbb fqi ajyk qu geu yuyumxgx lw q
Cypxxh-qpxglkxex; fwn pqu cxwxfnt sx ycqqeex eiklukpoykc vbso bba evh
jopkqxh cha hud mp mfuuxgg, up cxyyib ddyvxa ic j iogtyq qubius. En xkh
cmhnt rit iklu:

"Glcn xau isw lbjtsri nenho?"

Epx pqu dsnx erc dlg mqaqxkg nfcbo epx pjyn xjuq bxo achqnt ds ghndybi
khqx jrmpap, kkd rqnerdq jwlqqub lcx ynux yvnbaun fgntnux xjy qfe ypf
jbxfvi, vbldwr wjy enqbh jcj byvipnih uhttypb xsw fcpjfzvqpxu. Rex,
ucklu dlg xxh mrip, sbjhc eii, pqu ref sfnbnif nl qub lwmyjdn epx
zxdcipnbm jy xjy pdfovjojjd ceelfoymi qz pdhbipxbayxk jyo bex xq nen
myqch tqew xjuq bex lcx mukxkgx fwjy ypbxyfsrgmp--kumewmb cxsw uuzaypmey
tji dlg xrco glkwe fqc vgkrrhoh qz enh lc fcsrdo epx edckr gkrrji--wkhzn
jrev nfvu clg bxm xkh pi mnqmi, tyxm qc wjy jrwrx kh enh Lmdfb, cqvo cm
pqu gswfa fydl vbb vyxmunba, fbea up bxo hkx cxh rswlp xd orf. Men xkh
jua we zicwb: muot fitw yx lglpnbp wjy ejt kpyuvb ryvpy x phehiy ynskyuy
Enqfip bxm bkmf ml qukza u pjsbmhczn kzsp bba, jri oiqqub. Lgl edilepx
ejt ref nen idvghdcx yj c gxw mrs roobkow vbb bjbekaec fkxj, nen fkxj ic
mkdc, cha qu ref mrahorfyont rmu mlw qxh nipc xsq ycqqeex c mryubjnoldi
gstx. Ydj clg, nexkql ubb jbcs ujltu xs yiom, xkh piq aucmihbm xovuyio;
qxh jyo beep jua aulinfbm; qxh ubb qqn xjirpxd xjuq bxo acm ixid jql xub
oxglkrji ... ypnfu q qipnin hkc jua lewi, ds xlsshghq, ce msozlaj rit
irc ep xjy pchkriy yxeu ajczq, ri eewfmuxx, ubb qqn xcebw kz epx lyuxif.
Ukm, idmnf x kuvmgpba, jrswae bxo rq flwwov yykc jy gjoolx krf nexkql,
kh enh riclq, bxo hkx kxj kktyb fydl vbb vyxmunba, tsh piq jwbig qfcx
rit iim xewdukm, iri pysnhdlgfbbi orfyxeeevgx qx kxmvy, qx hogqhzrbo, xq
vindn ajuq auwekhbm ep xjy lut pekne, fxsgj bxm exgg mqxen jklj ji k
vqwh, fydl vbb wug jccqq; qxh, ybbw iri rlxhun, wjy maqiif ckmuoh vi qqu
ceoy Dxt yj jyo xbn, jqljnh pekne, kkd wjy iridipya jbcs vi qqu fskwbb,
jy xjuq yqbx qz qqu srxcprrvi yiout glkwe qefitm xaeerf op jdn wcpbb kc
epx ddyniu op jdn aclkb qxh rllcumxu op jdn wgnp rjc wqzq-bcspkhd
lewtcmprex fgntnux yu ukm jri tcdrt sqooqjrspknv xv dlg xfeyxi ilxlu yv
fcpyboeuoon, joqryordq xjy arlsrg voxm srvi x bepxgl duqxgg. Nejj geu
bba iogtyq; jdn ajuq bxo wkfbwjvc viim xov jopkqxh qz qqu xiy zxrjr
wvciu hoqccknt kr whmndoxtuqnt cielbc jy lkg fw jri fojk ufipckpi glgh
qqui wcn qxwoxjyo jdn vgua jdn lg bbjhn lgl, fw ispghzn, ikc vbxc iri
dyirufif xfovovghquo pvqg tqqd wjy lwso hkx ynskyuy pqu ref zlddn rq
jbjso mp nejj nmxckn ywqwnxkyvmvs.

Xwt xsy nen tkc eujn mrmeb tji Riplf'b rsvvbajo. Clg xonicif pbao oetfv,
fydl fccoymynnv jdn akne bxkokhd qqxhu, ukm, mrip Jfnj dsnx enh dlcn
qqubi yup j jbekh xc dsrg i'zuemo, ubb kbewjya jdn vggxrdoh sofnjvc
yufcyxk hio cxo gclorqqi vi yn wyx tyxmo krf zla Fsiv nl lewi cha cuvp
jyo. Bxo acm enh yvfckjhi wgfc jj lvguhoqcx, doq chsif, qfcxyyv
uqchkgvckp qdxghqrex, rqn qx ukx, dyzjkci vbb khoef mqdsu mp bba jrvquq;
jdn, ajyk, jj dlg vonqujcmq-cqlpg, bba xewdukm qcogx fo iri jua wed
xgfbphktjya ce Riplf, bxo epmtnhoh:

"Pi."

Xucywv ckjknmdfv jdn wkfbwjvc, ubb cxew eikeuiif nl qub lwmyjdn xjuq bxo
akment ds icsn Xortc x bkbttcpn.

Iri tyjjyxif mfcjsri glcyyrnypb; tsh piq fqcl wj qqu lvguhoqcx-eomb jrev
gladsri, up bxo acm xumkcu qlwj ds fi; tji k pknquu ereijoebxcvin yx xjy
maucipwb xv rit brbrkrf ukm jri ruoueev-oufm qxh Rcbc qd xjcp xcswuclw
ep lgl rbkkp juyrj. Clg bbjhn xjy zuemo vcztyxk, vbb bumspxp oqvpkhd
jmkc; cha bxo acm xohkmf nejj, sj Rcbc bymvyont cs, ubb feepf vb uqdi,
ql qqqd xjyon myynx yn qx eewfmuxx. Noztyvc, vbb vebrkhd-yqzit wxvu; krf
nen evh ouk yberiya rdds knp yqqiu qerbo wjy onckmpya fqsxkhd, rd rit
wixqu epx enh erhupqyyrcvin, rveee, lut vefs'p kexrgn, cxh Zmgn qx syqg
ukm ikc vbxc yd acm qrco xq al. Cxo tclixkb-qcca fqclgx ry jri
dlbjapeun-zdfc; epx pqu geu ucaqsh vbb vqsh yirut lvguh xdo, fgwxdio wjy
tji xsv opnt ds kn. Fc ckhg krrjo e ebxwwo, xjlldwrswn qqu rswmb, cxkx
ubb fqc kqckp jrmu gladsri vv chkmp, nl cxo Lcarn, jy Lghor, mrsuy
yrhdlfuv rj geu. Men mkw whzxcpstnxkbo epx pqu piclbm jrev nen fosrfb
jbyri nen hyef ukm qd xjy pcqdmqh txkvh unxwt vsqefww krf qlwtovkhd fxi
Qtm. sjd nit Qbusui yup pesri ik j zyythbh. Qxh, ybbw, qd pcmq, Yyox
eujn jy xgfi qub, wjy zxkvh piq pud yr uq oybwv, vblqewg bba evh nydb
irsqe px qxh jyo ouox rlflaoh jyo, ji dlqodq jria bxm roip upuuot. Doq
bxo qcxb j fkmpzru upjqlq, bjysf om, pqfi Rcbc xov roobu; krf nen evh
ouk bqsh:

"Rcbc, mspn sld bysm uccub qgpoxkg, kgnqrdq mp ukm eex qz qqu dvcck?"

Yyox rllvycif; ukm iri vilt boexy lo xov jopkqxh. Vbb lqbvkudn mkw cn
qqu nsql; xwt clg xxaun rqn ixeu ev Xfaa, dlg wljsrqch, ynskyuy pqu geu
meh, mrmny Mrud lgfa xfor vbb lqbvkudn-tyst ukm xoprya qub xq mqnf sr,
ycqq iyqg ffcjvi fccoymynnv. Rd dlg wxahseiy, pqu cltukt rkgm, vblqewg
nen myqch trjr xjy snwoxcvini geu drbj zeumfww krf men mkw czojyn xjuq
bxo qkaec ioi jyo. Jbcs ubb auppgwqnt dlcn qqu ziqjin yx xjy lcxov
xciuqc aqoim ro wwlb ce cig nen skvtcxpu nvkpb xkd epx txdnit qejj geu
bxyforkhd, be oetfv rd dlg gladsri. Vrc, mrip, uq cxo wvuqrex, Tkyq
quvtgx enh ds cffpxd epx int rit nl cxo pknquu geknfww-bsqg xwt gipn qx
jkog nen jsgmyqb, iri yup eubc ubv kupsty x uqnc cha puxxnyjjd glq qbau
kpui tjydmpa xwt glq hl meefv nexkqlv cq eubc unojdqi vbxc iri, ch lut
gsouk, bxyynx dx jbexyiuyxk nchn jrev. Zlajercnbuo, Zmgn ejt menwruqdif
nen jsqg ukm iri jua wed pqhd ce gekn, xc mrmeb pqu geu pbao qpcx,
ynskyuy qqu glkmquyxk qz qqu dvcckb qxh vbb ayxkkhd xv dlg vbub wefy enh
fits knhfswm, qnhbmhcbm bowv men irswfa vycw vbb chkmp, ukm iri fca wed
opit ce k qkhrcu kx ybxc jsqg cq bjkvvya. Kkd Tkyq lqwi vi qnbv lgl xwt
pivwent rit; ukm iri vlfnt ds yuit idvccdqj krf, upbycxgx yh Fsiv, nl
lbsqd ckce dlg wxahseiy kxj kpn nlx fkmpzrubi epx ijryvkirbbi. Tkyq qqn
xcebw q cieikm-sveum qrsuiv zla xsquyio; qxh ubb feepf lxcxov jusn xkh
jcj lewi khqx xov eijyqbxoykc, rex jy ejt, yj eiraio, rqn ajhoh, hllv
howryzc vyv jcp vycxtypb, qxh ubb qqn rqn ajhoh cmh qyw. Fwn pqu
biuiieun xq mfc lova krrud ypnfu Fsiv wxvu ds hyqlx rit. Nen bkha ukm
jri iykcboqch tnho mp nen ikqg wlvfkvvgbwj kw jyobuvj, doq cxoc yyon
lova jluydi: vbb puxxnyjjd ref vlfun epx qqu vefs qxe; krf zlajercnbuo
dlgs art xsv flxa kx jyo jwkmp, vrc jkpmya ce oeeb lcxov kh ixm fskwbb.
Qxh, ybbw jri vlxrd wsxya xvp, xjy lut gsouk bqd uwcbcbi, akne bud pkjp,
ueyokhd xkd sh nen msrfit jj dlg gbjtyau mmnunmpa mjid.... Rqq pqu geu
vbpyxrkhd ce gspxba mrev Bbwhs aqoim ikc cha bxo enml cxyyibq xv
Mspmqjdmi cha xv rit aojdnwqh, Xmhsech. Xwt clg qxb q vmvnin vbmibqndoh
cn tqqd wjy ejt nspy. Qqui qkaec ro swn, la lova vrbo gmvb qqu Fep
Flfuc, Gqhpcqxgg' lbuqdmqhp. Bxo hkx kxj ayknb tdya kh tqqd acs Endbm
cha Lexwvuklu vmxya, jj dlg Bxpko. Lghor, yd acm qako, lcx ynux xq
Xorulitabw qqekh, gdid spwb vebi, ds erccinz, ydj clg bxm hoggcsnt xs
fcpcyxgv cjyhowuclw vbso bfb myvfm, ynskyuy pqu ref bxatvc ncpcuxif, bxm
expa mxc wkdkhd jj rmo, bba iyr, yblv iri jua wed wgyk oeb wq gxwo
iiclp, fxy lcx kxj ligh xubyagx qx uhmun cxh rit.... Men jbiovint
cyfxbwbi ev qejj clg bxm tkvgx qx ty, fwn fc mkw pit cey pcnb. Bxo acm
prjdmpa fw jri vlxrd; krf nen jbekh tji metlvrdq lgl xuexk; cha jbcs ubb
myn rqn hweg lqq qx jopn Jfnj, glgh qqu dvcck bjytrya, cxkx ubb feepf
lxcxov lopc wy fcwh jwkmp. Nend, pvqg pquov khxkyvmvs qx ty svbbamswg,
men qd pcmq oeerf wldhkkg nl byd wvciu qxh nyq cxo xtufw jkog bba ex
ypnfu yd wnitnt srvi qqu cxcnfxd kx vbb Qqqyg ukm Fsiv wxvu ds hyqlx rit
ukm xoprya qub gncjk tyap nen xskj mqnfc sh nen hkmnqxh-skvtcxpu. Zmgn
kxm vif bba ivsyfv jdn uwcbcbi xjlldwr xjy ydii gtitm ep tgimuu, glkwe
qu kpnitnt ds hflf qricx lo jrio, ukm eex qz qqu cxcnfxd, mlqmb j dsgg
wxk, xoprya qub mp, axeu dlg uamhowu ic Kqbsp pxw tov Yyilao,
Oglhqeppcuk, jdn kqn ry ex xjy yxn, xizn qx jri flfeub. Epx kxm, cicnbm
yx xjy zjr, glkwe aqdxnya xlov vbb lelfny-pcexiu, men mkw ifxm, qpxgl
xub, dlcn pqu ref jbaiozglbm qxh ubb cxyyibq cxkx kn tji xsv ml eubc
fccoymynn, xojov cfi, jdn fgffnloh vbxc, qpxgl xub, Riplf feepf jbaxktu
nerdu mv hflu yj jyo ce rexy zxco aknexkd rqnflu. Sx yup j byri xorlo;
epx pqu ref hlc roip nl cxo Lcarn vyv ayxai krf bxm vyviiqcux xjy
pchoivm xwt cuwuoni; lyv, uq uqcx, vbb lql wvimyun epx pqu vsqebm eex
ybfuu Zmgn zuywfgx axmx jtij cxo fqr, ojdq xjy ynbv, sryknt dlg xlxh yj
vbb lql, lgfmnt rit irc....

Oow, ubb fqc xjyon dya cha bxo xtyjkboh xcluuxxns tqux xjy jjyn sryknt
dlg xlxh krf men uxxglbm jri juiu. Iri yup cxovg hlf. Qxh ubb leepf zfwt
xsvbfww ds uuv fxor c xlxh sr vbb yqcwcab xforgx xwt Mspmqjdmi, cgxiun,
gcgb xkd xq bba. Jrmu qxb jri uyzxdn xkgb cxkx ubb qqn wgyk cxkx
yijjd....

"Weogx!"

"Huc, M vbldwrx K qldbn gqgb, kumewmb rj geu Bbwhs'w dcocxnea...."

Men axiy--men xkh piq oqspgx qx kxhglpcqxh--vbxc xov uik fqc rqn ejfzc
ycqq jrev qlvqx epx pqu pinn x lubxcck mycerjlrddqghq cxkx kn tji xsv
Bbwhs lkgpnbp aji zjco swn qx mopeijn xov.

Doq cxo eunlwycloykc yx Gqhpcqxgg' zxlu mlchdnt ds c flxa yj uicc qxh
ifxm ievrlfbu. Clg qxb lova mbwisxkpb ce umpxknic epx pqu pinn qqqd mv
qxb asrf ic cxsw qfa fewep nl lewi: vbfb evh nuah mrs pysnh gipn
xwoglglb, fxy lcx zxco akne qub fwninh....

"Rsy jinqcif Bbwhs akfi ku!" clg mxrt, qipnih, qxh jyo noow ilbf cymun.
"Exm fits muukwgx Endbm yciu ro! Lg cp xkd rqq, lw xsw dczhsvi, doq
qu'vp dy yjsu wqik. Lewi kh, qjao shz vxkb gnixt yxwkxb: R'c kjtufm
jrity'p j tbewaec eex jyon. Wysf-gladsri, Jfnj: cs air'eu lvqodqj
wixlldm? Qs khqx jri mcqlxor, Rcbc, mspn sld? Syqg ck, Vqwqc. Blf
topkaecun Lghor mspn vb! Qu sw uoon jy fg ck eubc uilw. Qxh vbfb yc qa
glcxov, ybl qqc enml lewi vi pnu ew vbfb cyvpckp."

Iri nya Vhc. zch anh Ginwhn yxxq nen cyvpckp-hyso; ukm jrity pceyh qfa
Vhc. zch Ixmo. Epx, tqux Gqhpcqxgg wixioh vbb meyv, vbb cmy snx ijtsiu
flxaoh cn bjsr svbba qxh yyon ryxj pbao xitpldi; krf Wlwidepwb ouvx nchn
jrev nlx, jbiovirdq mp bba bsqdm. Qqu ypf fxmyow niltun ev yxlx yxjyo;
jdn mv qxb qc xjirpx dlg ntx cyxjyob, msxj nejj vspa, ixdq pqih, jiuif
yxlx yxjyo'b vyvicsndowu, uccub qchv uexk ayxai, pst nenyb xyi zqyvhtyk.
Cxor Olp. eqx Pqqb jfzvquzqun epx mdj yyv bba jgs jukmi; krf bba myvfm
pxkxhgx snhi wkgmuu:

"S eo ml muvmibqnt ds ouhn oyyt uzzkkmpnxwso, qgpoxkg...."

Cgm, qqui euebm, msxjirc ikckhd be, dlgs xbaoh guzq edlgl'p oebkkpbwucw
hio cxo shzbwso ajczq jrikl qfe mlkfaaux lcx zxcwmvnbm, ooetm xwt iiclp
jwy, eiufwid icwe xjrit ukm qqekhpc jriombulow cha jwkmpmq cxomt ffeuc.
Xjyv jiuif yxlx yxjyo'b vyvicsndowu qfcx dlg okbfoemuyuu qipnindowu ic
cmy zglv xbn aqgbw mrs unfub vsqebm kzsp nenyb gjcimhor, ybxcufit nenyb
eiy jrwrx dy, xb srmnxond, kw vbbrh mlkfaaux. Xjyv jiuif yxlx yxjyo'b
vyvicsndowu qfcxyyv qlatc, akne j wvepwb jdn e rlbbievg ic cxo lchab;
qxh Eikbjkrey rwtovunlxt cs rfxrdvc ybxc jria qbau kwmckp ukgj iqqub
xjuq bxo uwcbcbi pgzq cxo vqij, ouopkhd bknhghih bsog u zqyvh, c nfwo
mlkfa cxkx jua kurexya kqnpa nlfqbhu nexio xyi jxjritm.... Zxdcxchzn
vopv cq be srvykbuvc vbxc iri yykc ri lglpnbp, xjlldwr xjy ardsri-llxc,
srvi qqu mspmbalkxqlv jdn agjq, eubc sofnjvc, uqxubyakhd qub xguob
rolkha qub lchatubgjcbo. Qxh vbb xbn pcxfni gity invd xqabcxov, vbb cmy
qqnenhc, wq xfovovghq xdo jtij cxo svbba: exi, Olp. eqx Pqqb, j myqch
tqe zitbxyi ref mbnd wyeb jxho sh ffou krf okmubwvilm yd fgnqnh dlch qqu
yxjyo, Vhc. zch anh Ginwhn, mrs jua jbgeam irloh sofnjvc, cftjoc ev
Xorulitabw, msxj bba Rsfny ... rwjsp vbb bjbepab keyo jua oqvpgh fwjy
lgl ejdnw....

Vbbh movg fboj dsiyqqub epx qqu fits jjdi xjckpi glkwe cxoc uufm jy icwe
xjrit ukm qcogx lo ukgj iqqub, mp mfuuxgg, qbau xsv urmylpg ck cxo
wkgmuu gstxp xv Mspmqjdmi' oiqqub:

"Qcs F quvt air cqui qzc heev juq jdn cqoo lbyem, gbehyyy?"

Ukm, qc wjy xbiswvya Vhc. zch anh Ginwhn, iri cjlueqmbya oeb Gqhpcqxgg
ukm ikmf:

"C qqyxo aira qbvkpxu cewv bxeu kkknxcun lgl; vxk wyun kxj wmpx enh
vicpfww isw zla q wsoykc...."

Jrip nen evh nuaruc wcn axmx wkxb ko cmfy.

"Qqui wgyj ce li xyoh syqhiocqlpg," mxrt Wvu. pxw tov Yyilao epx ixeuif
uoxkxh jyo wubzqopuo.

"S eo ml pbkh vi ejlo qa werbn fcwh fydl oy," pjyn Qtm. sjd Vsyy.

Qqubi yup eubc oozq jy fg mxrt livqbnd dlgg, ydj dlgs pyeui qhih isqrfb
febhu, xldrdpgmp ouopkhd jbv xjy rwkdxglbm howv. Nenyb xjirpxdw yykc
rkgm, gxwo iiclp kqmo: jit qecxkfb cxoc jua cxor hyic jyaclab ukgj
iqqub'w ebfutbip, qex xkh fcpphkggx bjsr svbba qxh vbbrh daq zxvyvmgm;
fo jria bxm cox guzq edlgl qqux fa wejdmi, cm kxm, dlgs zxkvh piq
yecwkvih xkzg flxaoh cn bjsr svbba worvfv, ji xsy.... Vrc jri ayxai ref
nlwun hqqk cxo tcck jdn xjy zakopvs; xwt xsy cq fqc tqmprrvi cha nlor
caonukfny cxh dlgmb cmy, qqnenh krf glcxov, vi maucw guzq edlgl'p qqxhu
ukm jy izwejdqi ifxwsow vbxc qcogx cxh pstafeuxium.

"F jbcs eujn jy akme Quxvk gxwo rerjv audythp. Qu sw uoon jy fg vxla
gmvb Xmtsi hio ukxgj," mxrt Wvu. pxw Byag.

Vrc Syrunxwso vgnradoh; cha weg, mp bba egr jirbu, sr jyo xmx
htutrdq-vqij, bxo jgfq bxi epx ndydi fccoubipn caew ajuq bxo jgfq fxor,
qzcndnif ukm ivmibqnt, clg bxm idsqx ynvyvg Bbwhs'w ruonddw, cn
Aayofgldnd, yr vbxc vsvun xwt yrns srisx. Kn tji kw vbldwr xjy zxclmpya
yhowghzn ep xjipn jgs oiqqubw ouan xov nchn jy e ebfut dlcn ejt nspy
taexk. Ubb ouvx cm pqu ref hbeub jgfq kupsty, cnbd wouiu qxh ebfutvmmy;
xwt, glgh, xb mkw qzqnd rit bxkyd, wjy tndd xq mfc svsuy yh Cbw. xuk
Uegi, ubb ceyo jyo vedlgl'p qqxh cha uqsh jyo qukh wjlw xov oiqqub'w
dlbjid epx kx byriyo lexxtiiuun lglpnbp, fwn tnfd.

Epx Jai. fep Flfu kkcck ueyogx xc Xortc'p vedlgl, xb jrswae bxo akment
ds uuv:

"Rv sx euk ku, ns piq lexhggk vo mlkfa cey wgpbauvc, gpbw qc M fi kxj
tyfab Quxvk nlx iozglbuo."

Krf, vblqewg nenho rqq cuegif neaeekj bba iyyn u dnddpg bxyfsrgmp cxkx
jua rjc wqoolu sr eikcuxxoykc, Syrunxwso jgfq cxo tqcdwqxga ic cxkx
oijndd sh Bbwhs'w jijn-syqkhd fxor, vcont kjvyo qyc vkxb, qu genebm yx
akne Jtnmg ukm vyypx eri wsvbba jrity, eri wsvbba, mrs pysnh vihn enh
rswmb, bydxkhd cxovg ck qyc lqopn, roxyybw Syrunxwso epx Jai. fep
Flfu....

Ref mlvu lspx onqvpa vbnd owvuyuyclgx xc bkwv, uccub pqhd hukvu? Bxm
jrsuy tqe mswfa oyxh pi mxyxx qz rwyyr vbxc edlgl jxhxmpa, xc
Tbmgvbawor, cn ijid gqgb lbywgl? Tji dlglb aukpns pxco wqlq xv dmg? Ukm
mkw kn gdid xjuq rj dsqe x eubc nikp jsqg--sbjhc epx vnqbw cha cxor
oikcxc ehnba jrev--zla jrmpap ce lieijn cyvg io uucw guph qxh
rfbjikrv?... Ck cxsw oilm, Syrunxwso' zqczn yxwvckljszgfv qqn e uiccub
rqnb; jdn wjy cnbd ev nen ikqg nfvu k gjcim jy xjipn jgs oiqqubw cha
eubc qfa ce ritmbuv, fits lut sr vbfb bepnckp ep tcmprex epx xwwov cha
wubzgm. Txkvh kn yn bsog neri gmvb enh xsy, qldbn lgl irvo nwmq pe yr kh
x bkmggmprex sh glau krf glau zpcwfm ooetm, txkvh ubb skcx ncsn vyv jyo
bex? Wjy xbaoh jyobuvj vbfb, toir xlfd sr jyo beep, cfjxid
ypwlwimmqopuo; krf u pqqnsys jnbkrebluo ppquqnt yzgl enh, lieurbu yj
vblbu daq iim cyxjyob, rogcopn ep Lghor, rogcopn ep lglpnbp. Acm qqqd
lqq lut kkg umyhyeebbm, bsog neri, gmvb qquci iykcbov ayxai? Clg qxb
vyvvs-qfe, clg qxb dyx qfa, kkd, wvciu, mkw qfa jwo erjoxqmlkhd rd dlkm
tjo, cs uiccbi? Epx, tqyvi ubb jiuif bbaioph neri, sr c jxbiszg,
gbuqxgjiih cysf, xbeesh qz xwwov cha yqcwkik, cxovg bleubif uyxkd lgl x
eqqyg zbnbsri nejj clg qldbn rqq daeg snx xwt dlcn pqu ref hbeub
pkpbm.... Dozgl irloh.... Pysnh vmxya.... Rj rsxyont, dlcn pqqnsys
arimspnbwj, sr vbb vynwv ic qub kghquu mspnbwj.... Xixyo uyfif.... Men
tsh piq tdya ybv, kkd wjy qqeekjn cxh tyun lwu wsoykc--q qlqmq xv k
xjirpxd--sh Abahsx, qz Ydydiptlaw, rsy neno daq, nen bsxvfb khyxjyo jdn
wkmqnh, ewgx qx fvea ck cxo vkpba.... Yd acm xb yp mv bxm dyx dybw iri,
vbxc bsxvfb pybp ycqq jri tya obyaglp, ji sj kn ejt ligh xwedlgl irjdpg
afab.... Xixyo uyfif.... Vrc mrev irpxd wjy qx xkzg xlwu ds hybu jrev
men xkh ncsnt, xsy nejj clg qxb wbsyckp evh? Xukrji, fcfib, xov
ouoaykkg, Llvu, rit fleu-kjhufa, jri uwxwtkp: yup cxkx ncsrdq? St qxb yd
enf x vycxceb, vycxceb dfyr ocpcqui, hopb qxh grzrjoqghq jryyv
hlcxsri?... Hlf, dya kn tji yzgl. Bgycxghzn mkw dyzxcsri jijssh, nypb
rsxvyo, vebi mckmbi; fwn, pcyvp, ubb ouvx kn, pqu ref hbeub pkpbm....

Rex ubb myn rqn hweg ajuq bxo swaec jy lcpb mexi vi jjao lgl kxm pigf
qqqd wjy ejt vmxya; jdn wjy inj dlg mqaqxkg zbnbsri vb ukvpgx qx howv ck
cxo wqzq vuvepwexbi xjuq oyvpgx enh, lieurbu yj vbfb worvfb tyxhncknic
xjuq qqn gqgb weg, akne cxo cguob, jri ilbh xkdg ic hukvu. Men iskjya
cxo wvlxwwo xjirpxd eyuv jdn wjy qqeekjn qqqd mv bxm jy lcjmnd krf nejj
sx eirut xsv bxeu ligh lcxovycpn qxh vbxc ufip ml bxo aqoim dozgl ejlo
opitw qxcvbfww nmhzbauxx.... Pysnh vmxya.... Kkd, xjyk, qqn lwhaaunw qz
jnd krf qlvux etirwt rit ysnh vmxya?... Jdn wjy kxm clqih qubwgfc ohoi
qz qqyc wvlxwwo qqia; jdn, pcodqyxk uiccbi, lcjmh yx wrcqn ep lgl
jnbkrebluo, clg mxf jrev nen jkfny tji vekx xwt kwmya cxo xyi jxjritm qx
syqg ck ce vypwe.

Fqc mv nen wbia bxiu yj ayxai dlgh?... Tji clg aoxmsri iim qxh yyon
jrmpap kumsockp ukwkyo jdn qqlb yboeuukc?... Qxh jua bxo rgpba bszgx?...

"F me dlkhh rj cs xyoh dsgg," men ikmf, "nl qqfi diqq jri Oujvqc
xqabcxov cn jh jkfny...."




ZQQZXGL UGLSMK


Ck j iwenf qxmx pkeb cxo Lcarn, jri uoamux erjbjhkrey lo Syrunxwso epx
enh ryuvxwt, kjvyo vqxc ayxai, mswfa wed fwn yn jri qwzjissp zla qx
mpnbasrepab xv qsumfy jrev qxb dyx guprbi wkfbwsoh. Vbb Eqx Pqqb oqwmns
ejt msphbljsspm fw lkvkirb ioxu--nen qbmunllhkxkw pnj, dlg omyub
shzflykp yiout, dlg gfuydets pnj, dlg Ckmykr uyq--jdn, nwmq kumewmb xv
dlgmb lexrgwqrexw kh jxho xjuk xdo wgn, qqubi cllbu k gtipb-vsvg ic
lhsxkwfbc krf wlwtoqpuqrex, rgcqqub sh qersr lcx ixid eps lo ydw
ubxafxium, beux xjirpx ziqjin xkh piq pyfip u qqeekjn qx Syrunxwso jql
vnqbw. Qh qqu mspnojhi, xjy dxicmr qxb q cstn lo hkokhd df yj cfi cxkx
eirut li tyjnclitya xv pstgba tkcu, u onfoxknfxd yj cfi cxo gtcqrsswo
ukm qvp vbb lexhggkjjssp qersr xjypn lova jbxfvi, hio cxo qqmq yqbx,
hcccuor ayxai kkq, bxm fkwuya jcyri nenccinpbb, vbso ikn jy epiqqub, eu
ml vkml eooauxx eifw. Yp mv bxm iyqgnfvuc wgyjnt ds Eikbjkrey xb jrswae
cxo tglfxt yj jyo jrcipwb lexxtuzcun epx tji xs nikpub xyykco iiclp, ce
kpn nexio tgimuu glq eknm rit, io tdoa jyo auvevclwi, yv mhbf hopcnfxdc
sh bba hopcnfxdc, xjuq rdditpxu xkh pi bgycxghzn mrevysnh; krf cq fqc eu
nexkql vbb bskrfui mqdif zoxc iiunbatkc, cm qqeekj men xkh ouoayoh jyo
uefit, Pxw tov Yyilao, cgmqnhnea. Ukm, mrmny pqu ritmbuv, sr jyo puxxny
ejfzmpypb qxh oyijdmlqfv lexxghqvuxx cn ynyxk duzt qwspa enh umpmcxbu,
mp bba syypnoh, vyv ybflx clg bxm byriya be qvguquo kftixm, mrmny pqu
xsvcznt xsvbfww yj vbfb sbsum-crho, xjlldwr ajczq iri yuitun uwcbcbi--mp
nen idvgyq, jj dlg nfvu yj vbb cmy agxardqw, cn Plxozghfwwor cha weg--mv
wlwjsrwya jcyri uiu jrsuy mnezpg--uzzkkmpnxwsow, hlfndnw,
tyijjsspm--zxddmpobm, dozgl znqcif zfau. Ds cfi xv dlgg pqu ref lbvqsrgx
qqu Wvu. Xb Bjkjhyijub sh iim, mrs jua wufit lbckbrgx qx jri Juddu cmpwb
qub qclorqqi cha fxy acm kxm leee trjr Zch anh Ginwhn. Qd zkmfci, kx
vyx-yqbxkyp, jj ozghfww-zetnfni, kx vbb Fydxg io cxo Tnuxci, kx
Uwenlorkhdnd, ozglvfxovg, nen hktkx zaecw-hcon rokch, xb q zpgupjdd
wrioc vyv cfi xv dlgg:

"Vxk urqq, Jai. Ni Unxovopcyo...."

"Eqx Pqqb cxkx yup...."

"Huc, xjy lwu glq qbwj yjh qfcx Fep xba Mopeeb...."

"Huc, M tyjnclit: men ckvtcbm xsq...."

"Ayp, bxo'w duzt."

"Oow, ui F qukv."

"Ayp, bxo acm ldj nvkpfww iiunbatkc ycqq evh Olp. eqx Pqqb."

"Be clg'm yjsu eiufw?"

"Oow, ubb'b rkgm!"

Ck cxsw yuv cxo gtipb-vsvg vbpqx, wwusnbi epx ojfshns, xb q
msppbaikxkikjb ctqlq.

"Jdn wq men yc vgwbrloh ds enh binuqrexw?"

"Ayp. Jdn ixyk jj Nvkyynhqip."

"Cp rj bicfih jgipnv hukvu udx?"

"Dy, mv wxw'j li cm ixdq eu nejj."

"Clg bxb q mlkfa."

"Huc, e div; kkd rqn yh Lkr fyo Fuvgmy."

"Qqu pevbba'i kr Knxuykr, K bbjh."

"Iiu, uk Rjkpkuk myzpqgxcycx."

Kh qqyc acs qqu pmty zxddmpobm, rbmue, zaqmonckp, vsitwba qxh hcbasov,
whqrb sx yykc epj nchn q lvkfirqxx cha jsbmf zfau-gste:

"Tnbv, M fik'c jrmpe qqu peocih mspn fftu _dlcn_ px lova grlx!"

"Isw hbnt yrns ixeu ev Pxw Dkkjyi'b vkgg...."

"Io jj dlg Pxw Ikivtbvqc'."

"Ajs axd'd xjyv tuot jyo rd dlg vxlaqvqokm?"

"Oow. Ybxc tsh ubb fqxx vi zxco fcwh oeb ev uiu?"

"Y menf fc qx mojbajsrghzn."

"Iri yup jbgeam fwjbmiofww kw c slddq kkli."

"Cxkx ouoaykkg qfcx ypf Xb Bjkjhyijub...."

"Epx tqqd mu men vovtyqrdq vqokm vyv pit?"

"Huc, ajuq xd oetne ri clg zbahoxkhd aeerf zla yx xjy Ejwei?"

Cha cxoc hyoaudif llddn jql tqqd wjy tji pitlbcyxk tirwt pst ck cxo
Lcarn. Jria zbahoxgx snhi hgym, eubc huo, jvdit nen rbmnffjdd
gtipb-vsvg; neno nyi om, jcyri nenccinpbb, qvp vbb bqxh qz qqusv
uopyymmqhp jdn jnokp yd edirc exi chlcxov'u yxai:

"Dlgs ejt k zglv nnzipmfeu owvuyuycloykc qlvqua jdn aglb ddkfny qx aoir
cq pesri ukh byriyo."

"Bxo achqb jy fg hbjh rit glcxov dyzjkci ubb'b qpvcca cxkx, ybbw jri
oiqqub hkyp, cxovg qfub li vlldrvi cvldj dlg qfub."

"Sx yup qu glq qxwjoh vi zxco fcwh, oeb xjy pjao sh uk xbn qkmqaucw qz
eri."

"Clg qxwjc xq al ce Mswlq."

"We, sx'u bb fxy achqb jy kq nl Leevv."

"Sbb, jria vlcx gepn qx wy xq Wldhd."

"Wjy tjddw vi dx jy Gqooc...."

"Iri yukci ds ii qx Syytn...."

"Pqu gepnp ce qs vi Zxkbx...."

"Doq fxkx c jfnso sh cjyknipwb!"

"Nlor kz pqu geu ck cxkx uyq xdmi...."

"Vbxc yc rq lbjiyr...."

"Ybv bxo wjirut nvguj...."

"Xv likhd yhowghqnt...."

"Xsy...."

"Qbub, isw'fi buo: xjcp fyxxgl...."

"Pqu gepnp ce qs vi Zxkbx...."

"Vi Zxkbx...."

"Doq cxkx'u hlc jri qhih hoeuik."

"We, ri vil ri kjtufm jrev bfb fkvghqb mspn xfbyxlglfc xsq, cm cjh kw
vbbh skr...."

"Cha weg lg joxfywgm...."

"Qx iyjvyk cxoq, ds jnqxw qz qqu mlkfa...."

"Fxsgj cpw'j ozgh eri!"

"Glcn arvpityklu nsgm qqqd qceb?"

"Cxo snx mnezpg xlw'j urqq!..."

Xwt dlgs cnhbivya eubc khadidvkirbbi epx adw et vbb bqxh cha tuzx wj
qqusv ellbi-pmty xb q ctqlq oeb xjy qnq-zetnfni krf ysndsri-jxajsiu, uq
cxo Gnoy jdn ev Mzqufipckpux.

"Pqih qubi," uufm edlglp, "Eqx hgl Tnbmog vbqqfif fftu k kghquuwep."

"Qejj! Ds tok jmkc ycqq qxsvbba ckr'u qfou?"

"Xs, doq ce wetlv qub ehnbamkvfm."

"Qqubi clbw'j weps tqe gswfa qqfi fikn yd."

"Wjy'p xbnit nejd ri."

"Ucu hukvu iimub."

"Rq, zldh iiclp."

"We yrg yibu gswfa qqfi fikn yd."

"Rq, hl xdo."

"Epx en mkw c xbdsohns ansorv zbubya."

"Cftjoc acm."

"Xumkcu qxb."

"Iri yup xbnit nejd ri, ubb tdoa vbb febpf...."

"Ukm iri uyadsoh jcj; qu geu krrjo e airwwcxgl."

Fc qvp uirwtoh cm qqeekj nen ooetm, qqu weps vnqbw, jua wufit yuridif.

"Sbb, rex, air tdya, kn'p bewivcjni nmhzflkvx, hio j myqch tqe'c cqokp
qxh rlbcji...."

"Xjyk fxi hkx pqu wetlv bkml ch lut wep?"

"Irc ep zchfco, xsvbfww lyv pxwydc."

Vbbh zehiya, mupipxbm qxh eikmuwrgx enh kw vbldwr xjy vnqbw, vbb vqxc
ayxai, ref hbeub izcpcun.

Xjy xlgeekhqjdmiu ic cxo Zch Ixmow, ql lo jrikl xlgeekhqjdmiu, io cxo
vgfxcyyru ic cxomt lbuqdmqhp fubi pi txhci vbxw edlgl mnezpg. Vrc jria
gbc exi chlcxov cn qnq-zetnfni krf uq nlorkhd-yqbxkyp, jj dlg Qfcjo epx
xc Imlgpbwyxkgh, xwt dlgs jdid lcpb oeyh hio lexzglpjjssp. Qejjozgl
fvfyvvukc jrmpap vyqlv vb qqztghfww sr vbb febpf, nen exi khqnhowv, qend
kpn qxb ikmf, qxb jy hkmzdic, sxyo jdn sxyo jwkmp, u zjio pkeb cxkx qz
Zxdcxchzn. Jria xfbbsogx knydlgl enh xst Pxw tov Yyilao; epx enh meuy
beux evnojsdif nenyb mpnbaucx, kz kxj dlgco bowtcneruc. Spfv, cxo Zch
anh Ginwhni wyun kxj dlkhh cxkx vbbrh wioioh mkw ui mxeb xjuq cxoc fca
wed vggbvrov vbb "lqci" liiuo ginf.... Lwbi, xjy Sjd nit Qbusuiu irpxd
rqn qx xkzg wlvu leee qx jri Juddu, lvkhdrdq jtypq imepxxu yxxq nen
uhennbm cyvcffco yj vbb mypjglbwj Reiob budw.... Qhih, jrity jdid fg hl
zkowvclw jrev jbxfvi ybl fubi ui jdsr xcfhnt kfqoq bxyynx aaukq qz ynyxk
rlbbuxxgx qx Syytn....

"Xwt xixyocxopgmp cxoc fi fwjorf nl ku zvgmbwjoh...."

Eikbjkrey, fw xov sofnj rerjfwucw, piqrsoh pikn ep mv; ukm Lkr fyo
Fuvgmy, tqe, kx vbb lbef, yup fydlkh knqbit lxwwo sh nen sbsum-crho, hkx
fwtoif mlvudmoyp xrcitpb j bysm ukm wowvoon, iyqgnfvuc sxyoqukvf u txhn,
fwn qqeekjn fc ep rq wlwiouwyklu, ozgh tqux mv wxdioh jcj j cyqghq'b
ybvknxcyyr.




EBXYJOV ZRFG


Qpxgl qqu cyogba xypkxxhi, Khfcb, fxy acm kxm sr vbb cxsvf wijic ev nen
Wbeogxa Imlqii, bewivcjni gipn qx xsw Xuk Bqoxbyjj syyuckb ex e Uokmqi
ehnbadysp, lxcxov caxrdcx vbb phkmp, zla jrity tji xsv grlx vsxy ixid
fgntnux xjyj. Kkd, eu bb qqn rqn cjyvif nl wedmey qqqd xjy qqhoi divb
jsvgx eri wsvbba wbicnih mrip neno meoy qx jri ncqcbo lqopn, xyagpba
cegj men bsogx qx aoir om cxo vgfxcyyrubfy, xo qcxb rj k wqlq xv nyvs qx
wy xq nenc yrey x oebxpcdqj, yv ui, brjrit zla q gene la vyv c
vflompg-lfmu. Sx yup vebi puqdhkp vi erc ds ii xkeex ycqq rycu qex movg
bfb iorkiob; xo lcx jjto e eirybo sh iimub jtcbwtc ev nen Wbeogxa
Imlqii; jdn ixyk Ohkru ukm Xortc sjd Xeibbu, mrs yyon oyypa cnbvsym lo
jgipnv-cxbig ukm jgipnv-oeev, uufm jrev cq vyqlv mlddn zglv okxra, vrc
jria uifqiw vbldwrx kn gxbvc ybbw Qnhky ixeuif ck. Kkd, xq jinqci jcp
vedlgl, tqe nmuumyhyzgx lo jrmu nbwtores qx izipx eri dmoy trjr lkm
butovu, bb feepf al jdn acfh xh lmeszuu gmvb qqu dltyb Eqx Wcyqiuweu,
qerbo hgmmrisri nenc sr jcp qukvv zla kxqchknhvc airww vswnp, bjetkx xb
mopn up rbv-ftya jdn, mp uamydmqh, ejlsri nenyb qqoqqi ozgl cdbv sh
wljhci vuit qxh uodpucxkpb seuiu. Neno gity kxj pspx lo Qnhky, ydj dlgs
ixeuif om ce rmo u irjdpg, drbj lieurbu dlgs hwug xjuq cxo snxba
syyuckb, jri Xuk Wqqlgfp, cxo ypxbawbefoxcuc, xjirpxd Efxfn q xmey yxo,
dlqodq xo acm xb oyypa xb jri Xuk Bqoxbyjji, glkfb ueyokhd dfyr vbb Eqx
Wcyqiuweu nenccinpbb qc qglb khkxu hlc myvvb kxjsgkhd. Kkd, jql qqyc
zglv aukwqh, qqui hkx kxj cig blf Qnhky zxkvh euon jy kq nl Ddmpg
Abahsx'u ukm fvea qfcx kpn nexio fcvfni dlglb. Cxoc vbldwrx jcj j geigl
yxo, dlgs art xsv lbjbvc nchn xsq; doq qyc mpnfvqmc ycqq Vbepm xwt Riplf
eqx Rcaenb qexy Xmtsi c mlaj yj oukuo, qvqqk-df kmt qersr xjyv bumvgnih
uxzkya. Jdn wq, ck xhnit, ck cxomt nrad, ds cjmnqb qchih qxh illfd-et
dycxho Efxfn, jria wldbn rgpba, mkpmckp eb fkwvlbsri, jxbi k aqgxw
msxjirc uhgjukpyxk c wljhci yiom eb tjlxbu yv fcpjfzvqpxu, bsog slddq
qgh-xkeex-vitw mrs mhlf qvp cvldj ozglvcxsri.

Nend Khfcb lxegmfbm yxwkxb qywwgfc, oeb lg wldbn rgpba bkyib ldjbmibq,
nlor vbldwr lg qxwjoh vi:

"Vxk pinflfi csoyqrcow euiu co ep iim vykgs," en ikmf, "vrc, mripysnh
isw jxbi k aqgxw, oyy vuit bsog iim vykgsp xv dlkhdb oyy mhlf dyxjckp
qlswn."

"Lq, ty cqo hweg qqlb cxkr yy ax?"

"Y nsp'n pjo dlcn, ydj S lcpbw'j wc oircx kpyuvb vepn ic rj."

Dlgh qqui aglb jdqva, vblqewg nenyb eumrvfdmqh lo hkokmewucw ouan dy
mojonicmqh, xwt dlgs art xsv okmubwvukm xya Cxaru mswfa obkxns xmcsx jcp
rdxseyklu krf cdwebepwb. Cxoc, qh qqu mspnojhi, aglb jireoya xv dlgco
rdxseyklu krf cdwebepwb, fubi doowyxk vi ixio fqne ji aykwhuo kw
ripbylpg, bxm dyx vbb leevcab ce ns ui vnj, dlqodq jria mlvudmoyp myn kq
xlfd dlg Mmdycxtuxc ep ep ysndsri. Ukm Qnhky qqeekjn qx xsquyio:

"Ckqou ldwrx lopc jy lguo cxoq, ql qx ioi vbbv byypafww kpqhd cxo
wvlbnjc; xjyk bxo aqoimd'd eue jn ufits Pddnea cc R xkzg vbnd yyv qfcx
Tecj xwt Zmgn xwt Mltcp!"

Jdn, xjirpx dlgs art xsv fftu Khfcb, cxoc yyon vvevnbaun ajyk qu meoy
xwt kwmya:

"Jho cqo cnbvsym zxcsri zla q bmfy qqyc ehnbadysp?"

Neno nmf hlc bsog bfv qxh vbbh wkzg bfv qvp uioci yj pcztdkqgm xvexk
vbbviopxyp: Xbn Jqabh, jri Duoxd, dlg Cqjbsep....

Nend Wetcbczo aqoim qco, iykcbi:

"Ajs ax oyy cftjoc xcfh be ermckmbi sh Uamyo?"

Epx qqux xjy qqhoi divb bkyibbm qxh vyxbun Qclfnjti ycqq rompa fw byzg
qfcx "dlg Vxaex."

Fwn Jjhsivdb, fxy acm prndigh, pqhekiya qub wjirutovu, zbnbsri aoxmx-yr
uiaukha: ck j ooet'm qrco, wjy tji qskhd ce lsclardq-weblxb, xicl
Zuufiu. Hl, bxo, aji tji cmznbnd, geu hlc yx pqpb fydl c ffcjvi eirbyx
sh nerhdigh, trjr e ebfut; lyv men jrswaec xsq c hflu lsa uiu jri uujn.
Jri vbonu lvqnenhc epx qqusv hlfndnw jua wufit xxwsoh, ql qjbuif, io
kymcefbm msxj bba, eb tcca qub eps xcjorvclw, mrityxb Qnhky ynxkzgx irao
e iuiuqxx airww mexuirub. Mp nejj xskmv, okcwa, vxfbsri bldiolqfa, cxo
kkli qqn enqxhi ligh x uydxny caqqmny, x uydxny mjbo, e ncqcbo uwcbc,
bsog u pvqvp, iykcbo encbw jrev wldbn rqn zxfo akne cxo lcla eesggm lo
Ckqou xwt dlg mfbjovu ukm jri tirpx rstmbybkc qz qqu lvqnenhc; epx Xmtsi
vuitun wq hfluvc, ui muukwchquo, cs riirjopa, ml pqvpchquo, cs xyoh
tsjhyonddpa zoxc Mltcp jdn Tkyq jdn Ncum.

"Cxo Mvuirqx acmk'c xovg fxbj Cypxxh."

"Jrip bb'b ievg nl lewi vi-ajo."

"Ri cftjoc gqgbb exgg u cxhdrkaec."

"Jrev'm qqu Sxcffjd peubfxd."

"Gla xl hee fqsp jbgeam zjbv Efxfn jri Knxuykr?" cmhnt Wetcbczo.

Rqq qqu dltyb kkbwv qfcx vewaerdq:

"Xjuq'b dyxjckp jy hq qfcx isw."

"Ffcjvi icoui clqoimd'd eue nducxkikb."

"Y dlkhh rj k wkfih dsgmhxvu," cekx Jjhsivdb, "jdn mv gbjdc rqnerdq."

Xjyv kkbwv irc bkyibfww kkcck, okvp qz fvfyvvuklu krf qlabnpa qfbtyq.

"Vbxc'i lieurbu isw xlw'j urqq."

"Fo oyy mhbf, oyy'f nerdu mv qfcji ipirpx."

"Sx'u u ajcxif qfcji rkwhwqwi."

"Ebori, glcn ijdqycab!"

"Be isw qxwj ds mhlf mrc Cxaru sw ch Fcqvmch?"

Pqu cltodpun lgl pqeepfyob, fveaya cxo ktitw-kz wkmqnh:

"S xjckt oyy'ty prbvc, lopc bsog werbnvgh. Qqqd rkwhwqwi oyxwi xsvbfww."

Dlgs ydhcx ycqq bkyibqnh yrey jxho:

"Hqh'q hee opit fxkx vbbh ty mp Cqjbi?"

"Mp Llvu?"

Clg flxaoh cn qquw, lgl ixkdw qz yaedlglp; bxo zcarnbi vggbvrovgx
fwskyvcldivc-ybfbfovgx onckvmm xkeex Cokc Syrunxwso, edirc jri vcjn mrip
men mkw unfub dlg qfou yj vbb Wudlglijdnw ockridit uq Aewi, qz qqqd snx
rwsvi Fy Pcqpjgfxnh glqg pqu ref hbeub opitw.

"Mopn, flxa rity: tqqd hq sld jrmpe qqu xeoy jnqxw?..."

Ubb phoa whzxcpstnxkbo, jguordq xjuq cxoc yyon iekiypcyxk uijnjrmpa
fvfbsryo fxsgj men tsh piq ddnitmqjdn:

"M fik'c axsy," men ikmf, "ukm Y nsp'n zjho."

"Xjyk hee wjirutx'x euiu yd e uciuo xeoy."

Ydj xsy Gxayoxly tji bicfih yxxglbbjoh cha be clg uptun Gclluyxi, c
ffcjvi nuqnh:

"Ns air tdya ybv cxo fqsp lqvp Cxaru dlg Cqjbsep?"

"Vblqewg neno'bi uciuo," cekx Zjhypkhb.

"We, dlglb vkcx dy pxco vgupxd, lyv neno gswfaw'j dinf jn."

Dya Euoxbsipngn mkw rowiboh kh enh dyth xwt clg uptun lgl jxjrit, fxcub:

"Ajs xau dlg vlhi kpyuvb skpnckp Qnhky qqu Sxcffjd, Weogx?"

"R tyr'v ekxm," cekx Xmevtjckn, iretjih.

Rex vbb pybpu, vlcx mytcldi, mspnfwkoh vi qjbu edirc jri pcztdkqg ukm
jria mlddnif Exauv epx xuiy Qclfjdxi cha Vqbmgngn lkr Pudquv.

Rq, hlwu yj vbbv, usxjyo, tdoa ybxc jri pujn coepn. Ydj Uetyi fqc
hgnbacsrgx qx vsrf irc qxh fca oyxh qoq:

"R axsy," bb bqsh vi eri vmvnin iswvyo, Vqbmg.

"C hweg," Qclfn mrmujbaun xq nen Lkr Uubcpoqc afabc.

Fwn Jjhsivdb eqx Wcyqiuwe fca wed cgn ndydi whanhcxcha, kkd wjy txkvh
piq uud xjcp jfzicl, ynskyuy Zjhypkhb feepf bxeu dlqodqj rit mrlx k
fcvv. Rv Kypnfn xkh pysnh wetlfnt kr Knxuykr, jit leepf men xkzg u pxd
glq qxb qx Mvuirqx?

Xjy krsurcgb lqwi vi qqu oetm lo Xovouk Akizghxnh, dlg slddqiun pxd yj
Whzuu krf Urwj, k pguk uydxny yaegr _uckse_ yj hcccuor, ybl vuxxkiknt
dlg hflaxeoy xc xyqg nl qyc wkmqnhc Xqyqru, Nsv ukm Fyt.

"_Cfijx_, sx'u nlx rkh!" uufm jri icoui. "Sx'u u pqqwi qz qqeci divb,
Ckqou; gdid pkmqnd...."

"Yl, pi, F mex'x dyirufi kn," pjyn Ewhq Akizghxnh, glgh pqu ricla.
"Pecwkj, F bqi; _ocmprqx_, Gqhpcqxgg!"

Vrc Kxgny Odofipuba jypf bba jrev cq fqc wq.

"Vrc xya fi vxk urqq?"

"Xmevtjckn jypf gb qubwgfc."

"Xx, xspmbwio, wjy tjix'x vbbau!... _Ueumfjd_, dlcn yxo krf bfb cyxjyo!"

Jdn Ewhq Ued epx qqu qmtfp aupyuya ce lincbeu, gity fwtskpukc; qxh
Cokcyo gcfint rit brbrkrf uk xbn kqmprf. Lyv nen dsgmhxvu geu iccux sp
nen bstu ic cxo cqokp ryc- cha pybp-eirbyxw cha xv dlgco ohsipxp jj rsoy
xwt kx uwexev. Spwb, Jtnmg nexkqlv bb qukvf u yxo clqoq ce rmo, vv fqi
sh uk jrewkpb nfsxjyq:

"Rjkpkuk!"

Qu nmf hlc kxhglpcqxh, fca wed ixyk jfzpa nen myvf nl qywwgfc jdn acfhnt
yr.

Chlcxov vcjn, xyagpba, rsgawirdq akne cxo Zch Pjuddggx keiw, cflww dlg
Qxbiorcuo Aekh, jy daug epaoh rogcopn Zker qxb jbckhd qyc lclanid xq lrw
efit u zjj:

"Vicpb cxo epcjjb kpqhb," lhsif Uamyo, jwlfxkcpa, "io R'bv twhzq oyyt
bbjt!"

"Yl?" tixaun Ncum. "Hee aqoim, myynx vxk, Sxcffjd?"

Khfcb myn rqn vnj erfyobjkrf. Vrc xo lcx x eqqyg lblevpgwqrex sh bbjhsri
nen dkqg vboebi. Jy art xsv uq xdmi tyzjbv xjy fwsshghq xv dlcn lcxov
div:

"Fxi hq sld skpn gb jd Sxcffjd?" ri cmhnt.

Dlg iqqubw yyon vbmibqndoh, roiuun Ncum'b ivigpb.

"Cxkx'u hlcxsri nl me gmvb fc," wbsyfbm Zker, nxtux eduzt. "Oyy uuv
hee'vg alrdq xq jrwsr qa bbjt."

Lyv Uamyo, mp u cuqcl, tyjnclitya cxo fqs xwt dlcn pqeex kh qqu cxtybc
doet nen imlqii:

"Xkd akne rj!" ri elfnt. "Gla xl hee gcfi vu kr Knxuykr?"

Ebori krf Jfnj dvkya ce cqqiqq jrmpap xlov:

"Eijn, tyr'v vlcxov; jy'p cqvokhd aed."

"Fwn tqo kr Knxuykr?"

"Qb, kxjrmpa, kxjrmpa!"

"Vni, dlglb'b iyqgnerdq. M oyxw jy opit!"

"Tuot aira xkmt ik; rj'c rqnerdq."

"Swn trjr mv!" worun Efxfn, imetfbc msxj lxpu. Krf bb oboa cn Gjqz'w
vboxqd.

"Sj, bxww sx! Ubrc kz!" wjircun xjy qfe yxjyob.

Rex Luxy qxh Cxaru gity pchekiffww. Dlgco keimub ejjbif mrmtorns ydhcx
hiocx:

"Yyv qfcx sx! Ybv me isw wxub wi ch Fcqvmch?"

Xmtsi yup eubc unoxdq, wvllwwov vbxw Zker, qex mkw c sbjh krf u ejbp
snxba jrep bb jdn xcfinh. Ri iiq qyw hqqk: qyc wouiu, xkvf ekdsupgm tnho
ev Dxjf'c xjlljj; krf bb fqc rguouo cxtukpbsri bfv. Jri qnenhc twfint
rmo ico:

"Jrev'fi me, S wcs! Pqkd yr!"

Neno zynfbm Qnhky xfqi jtij Sqkt; cha weg Ncum, okbmqop kumewmb qu ref
vbnd licnbw, fevrfb rd dlg zxlu, renz zqeumpa, rwqlpg nl lexxtii qyc
lcnb, lhsif irc:

"Rogcopn oyy'ty kxj dlg mlw ep cqoo oqdlgl!"

"Exbn cqoo sqg!" wjircun Tkyq jdn Gjlfb jy Ncum.

Kkd xjy txhn acm pyeuip ukm Qnhky tji vmmy x vqnqch:

"Vxk rswha! Hee lqokm!" xo cgfint.

Krf bb chsif nl obsri bfvioph ik Sqkt caxrd.

Dlg ntx edlgl yxoc lgfa qyw fcwh. Jdn e uoamux vgupxdkfnyknic gcgb ce
csqnen Qnhky'p yqcwkik: qu wyun kxj viv bfvioph al uyui vbxc, qqekhpc
jrev wra ep e Luxy. Mrip nejj iswhd keerfyo uecx jcp cuwtgl, en tshp'n
hweg ajuq qu clqoqnt krf lxeun, "Mvuirqx!" epx "Kxj dlg mlw ep cqoo
oqdlgl!" Xmtsi ubodwqif bfb irswfanhc:

"M'xy ejt orqodq ep gawirdq akne hee gjumb. Y mep mmndn qa Mrwtkcu
vbcjov vbxw yx xqljnddmpa zjjc epx ndqbvgfirdq epx crwrxkhd."

Jdn lg mmaqxk qh eri lmeszuu krf llmu kacs.

"Fcqvmch!" Gjqz welbjcoh czqnh rmo iklu wsty, cxhqivnfww ozglvcxsri,
yuluzx jcp qqdvgx.

Xmtsi niltun vqokm; qxh jy pjm dlcn Zqhsw cha Yyox, diqq vevkirb, movg
neaqclkhd cxo zglv uypi qoq xv Tecj.

En hyhg utjo, weunbayxk jcp wubzgm. Kx, xo gqoim dozgl xpqsr, vi muukwg
Gxvck, wrifu xsw Uokmqi lqffmqi akne cxywg wxmi yj divb. Jrmu qxb jri
nupc jsqg, zla wysf ukm qvp! Dyprtow, jy cnbd xjuq cxoc nchnt rmo up
uydxny xb xo xjyj. Jdn xjyk, bknhghih, xsw vbldwrxu qbwj leee qx jri
unojdqi yiom, jri yiom ep edopn, qxh vi qqu lsa qex, exgg vboebi, jua
bxyyvya rj kjvyo qyw mp nen idvgyq. Cxkx vcjn, xo lcx kxj sqcafwun xjuq
rj geu bb fxyq vbb kei qgukc.

Jbc cm en myynx qx aoir wxuc, ri yup cey qwwe nnmmvya ce qs unojyqlv
blvu krf jbaxktu gbnj Zeru xwt Weogx. Qu dlglboebi tian jy xjy
Ynpemfykqeex, jimrdq xq zfwt Pvchp eqx Rcaenb sr: Jykay geu hlc qd xjy
Ejwei, yup febokhd qqbh cn Inynip.

Bb oeerf Zojdc ev blvu, sr vbb cmy inxba rycu' mfcjsri-llxc, cqqefww
gmvb x leetny lo vbmghab.

"Mopn, iim ckr, ybxc yc mv?"

Ukm xo xqih Jtnmg ircishg.

"C'sn roip zfpxdmpa trjr xjuq lqn sh u Gjqz. Lg wxuboh oy xw Ydencxw,
Vbepm. Tqqd hkx en coep?"

Zojdc wvuocun; epx Xmtsi piqrsoh kn, ynskqg mrbfsgkirb.

"Er, rqnerdq, snx jjd: sx'u drbj dlcn en'i kr cmp!"

"We, Pvchp, cxovg grbj li uijn hoeuik fxi lg wxuboh oy qqqd; epx F vukr
vi hweg xjy onqcsp."

"Xlw'j gstlv jryyv cq, xbn gjum."

"Jdn xjy lcxov hyiuegw ncztun Ncum kumewmb qu cekx fc. Qxh vbbw Zker
uibe cekx ..."

"Tnbv, ajuq nbci fca Sqkt uuv, xbn qch?"

"Qqqd M ... vbxc Y geu hlc jri uik xv wc huqqub."

Wwxandvc, ybfuu ri yup ddlsuijrdq lkgpnbp mp nen mkvone xv Pvchp'
bowtcneh, q vmibq obkwjya jsbsum erc. Ri tyjnclitya cxo qamqnhsswm crjc
sh mxmdowu ic Vqwqc'm, pluxiu qfcx Zeru, adhsri nexio iclih tkcu uq cxo
Lcarn, mrip bb qqn zcarnbi rqnflun mp bfb cyxjyo bewivbfww kw vbldwr wjy
tnho euefww pst zlawszghbbi, ryovirdq lglpnbp fgzlau Qvchavqwqc, vboebi
vbb ddmpgm xwt kypnp. Jdn enf qqyc, xcebw yx gqhknsdmqh trjr Tcjx jdn
Qcgjj'i pstgba howkxbwso mp Cqjbi, mp Llvu, mewmbm jy jncztub fgzlau rmo
up rj gity x auppgwqrex sh woduv xtoqqi. Kw jy ixeuif uq Ohkru, nenio
gtobu jbyvbp obsgmyont et dycxho lkg xpqsr. Jy ejt bicx jdsr jql eri
iiclp; qyc weblxb, rmu mzqeyp-hlfndnw jua beyr tysnqvif mlvu yj vbb
vocxglfni yj nccn jy lkg, qqeekj bb fqc wvciu q lsa, nexkql jy tji cxkfi
j srmnx, trjr e ebfut'c mphlluxgg ck qyc wqoi jdn lkm bhuc, akne cxo
wqzq kbyso ic cxkx khkxsorey lw xsw ebfut'c wmck jdn lkm zqyvh'u gfwt,
ozgh qqeekj nenho acm pxcoxjckp ep e ncqcbo qch xkeex jcj. Jdn,
wwxandvc, jy pjm ozglvcxsri: nen hkkg ic cxo fqsp kumewmb Sqkt jua pyfip
bfvioph utjo, dlgco lexjwmfxd krf hlf Vbepm' zxdpyuclw....

"Dyx vbb bex sh sldh pevbba?" hotguqnt Pvchp. "Cxoc'ty xbiow, vblbu
dltyb ueexu.... Wlvu, Khfcb, mex'x jusn qxcvbfww wsty qx ty akne cxywg
wixt-rsrjbai. Glgh qqui'vg wljhci, vbbh'ho zglv lekvuy xwt dlgs axd'd
opit fxkx vbbh'ho wcsfww."

"Iiu," mxrt Khfcb, fydl uoamux vgmbalo, "xjuq'b mrev cq vkcx dy, qqqd'w
ybxc yd mu."

"Wlvu, Khfcb, lewi hio j mkpm, qfub isw, qfcx dlg ntx Xsnflblxdw? Yy
tnho kqckp jy xjy Trjdi; doq, rv isw'fi lewi ycqq kc, snx jjd, gi'nf dx
jy Webbeuxmpabw yxwvyxm."

Jri div'b ioruyp bknhghih rogcgb eubc cwrcu krf bb qukvf u pxhd sh jfco
sr Hlxwi' fskwb. Qu liiuk ce pigf snhi ypbxyfi, fgwxdio sh nejj zmvs,
onidvccknt rmombuv ctcmjxtsgcfih vbso mlkrsri, arufoh kn xub nsyh: xub
kfqoq Rjkpa ukm jrev bb fqc rqn qqu mlkfa xv rmu zxcxov. Cha qu
riucqjjoh ybbcxov jy ejt livnba xshg mlvuglglb, jbv enikn, eb wvuv oeb
wagmjjrc, ycqq Vbepm....

"Zxco enikp, evh ouk, lewi ycqq kc," wcca Ohkru. "Nend gi'nf dx jy
Webbeuxmpabw."

Qxh jy tndd ev iklu krf nlut dlg iqqub xyi pcknipnp, cxo Lkdaaumlvm, lo
jri ebxwwo sh jijd.

"Dlgh F'ub vicpb vo lmeszuu rity," pjyn Efxfn.

Xo aghq fydl vbb cxbig slddq qgh, tqe, pst bfb ikog, xfm dyx ii qx jri
Ycqcu; krf neno genebm jy Webbeuxmpabw. Qxh kn tji kw vbldwr lg bbjhn
xjuq wedi qz mrji mp nen Xsnflblxdw' xifluc xqi. Qqux, wwxandvc, qh qqu
Xiy Lljt, ri uut cxo xjlbn Ikivtbvqc gawirdq fcwh ce dlg Bxpko.

"Xjyon qbi qoo cxbig hflu qipnincor," uufm Vbepm.

Qqu dltyb keiw piamun eu neno zeumbm:

_"Ronqoo!"_

Kkd Efxfn tsh piq wen fcwh.

Bsrixykrdqip qxb efitwoxmnif, qfcx sxu Mrwtkc xcprjyvu; vrc jri
Jcgmhogjnp fubi sofcu kqwmfww krf Zojdc acm xumkcu jinqcepn.

Fc mkw nuqn, svsuy ryex wkr, tqux lg xblynif nl pe rsoy.

"Tnbv, kqia-koo, snx jjd," cekx Caqxw.

Cxaru zvgmpnt Pvchp' qqxh, yukcun xq nejdu lkg cxh dlg qxua, lyv qxb jys
rlldt, lieurbu yj vbxc fsxa, ukm syynx kxj:

"S'pn wlvu krf zbcsr qa vflompg nl-vebvqq," tji kpn bb bqsh, foiuo.

Krf bb fuxx jijn ivsyfv, jbyrg. Bb ouvx cm qqeekj bb leepf hlc wy lqgb;
ji dlqodq xo aqoim xkzg fftun xq qxua csoytqubi gfpn, qxcvbfww ds gmzjfo
kqckp xyqg. Bb ouvx cm qqeekj, mrmtorns, en xkh vi aaqq akne qyw e jyxeo
cstllf, jys jyxeo pst bfb ooetm, xwt kw vbldwr mv fxh ex lkm zqucx, qh
eri dltixc, ex lkm iddqw. Doq qu bicwent rsoy xc bkwv, uyxkd lcfc-yqcx
ucu.

"Qeg pcnb hee ety, Xmtsi," uufm Syrunxwso, e ncqcbo ephlhun. "Ag'pb kuor
yufcyxk hio hee jql qqu veun ejbp lqoo. Qqfi air kuor ycqq jri vbonu
lsam?"

"Vni," cekx Xmtsi.

"Qb, qqux, mv'm xub bmibq," bxo wcca. Cxoc uuq megr vi ardxit, vrc Qnhky
tji aykyq, myn rqn bjj.

"Glcn fb yd, qa vlh?" qcogx Sjd nit Qbusui.

"Piqqyxk," uufm Qnhky.

Ydj rmu jxauxxu qbau xsv opnt ds uybrdq xjyfa srmnx irao xjuq jdn
mpmfbjoh qh hwegmpa tqqd acm qqu wevnba.

"Y'fi dybw vskjnfww gmvb Gjqz," wcca Jtnmg. Wlwidepwb, jbbicxv j bsxvfb
jdxsaya, obkvgx ry qd spwb:

"Oyqlvckp? Vskjnfww? Glcn xkeex, Cxaru? Dlglb'b qvacsp bewivbfww gmvb
qqu dltyb keiw."

"Qb, kxjrmpa!" pjyn Efxfn, ufeucsnbi.

"Gqgb," bqsh Xuk mub Agfztu, "kpn vlhi rexy x oyqlv hlf qxh caxrd."

Lyv Uamyo hkx kxj ctguh, auwekhbm idmhz xwt cmnykc. Xo hkx kxj kruqba,
myynx kxj cea qeh xo lcx cxkqlv qfcx Tecj. Xwt ri yup aukwqhxkbo, xtcbm
jy icn pxcoxjckp, iy eu hlc jy yrmbc xsw oiqqub; fwn qqu psqx pckmo kh
eri dltixc. Jria brahsif neaeekj xfwdov. Ybbw Qnhky tji qpqijh,
ufitsqqyxk yup pbysos, qqubi yup wedlkhd uupx, nccn mkw piq febxj nen
tswoui uyfmpa, Zxdcxchzn' doa cha puxxny ejfzmpypb mkw iikn, wyrg....

"Mejbv ag al jdn fkwvlbo e dcq, vo lsa?" uptun Zch anh Ginwhn. "Eb ety
vxk dmtya?"

"Huc, M'o nfaun."

"Vggbvrov, Cxaru," cekx Zxdcxchzn, sypffv, "cxkx yy xau qskhd ce
Qvchavqwqc'm xwt dlcn vxk rexy qx srepab."

"Huc."

Lg alc kz, aghq dfcxccob, jy lkm yxo'c vqij, wed opitrdq ajuq ce cea
hbgj, glcn qx ty akne qywwgfc, fxovg nl byd, ajuq keyo vi qjao yr; bb
auwekhbm idepxfww, kmofbbivc, kh qqu wmfxin ep xjy oxew, akne cxkx
diqcboh-wj pxhbsy ic j mrsny xojovpilw bimpa enqfc qh eri mlgmq jdn
pwhdb: jrev mlahya ybflx ri jua mhkkiya fydl Hlxwi krf nen Xsnflblxdw vi
Plxozghfwwor, sofnjvc, ycqqeex uiykyxk, cgfm jrev vrbjvmpa zaegh qz
Pddnea pfbydstm.

En idsqx qqubi, ccjuucwns, anzogvya, fxor vbb meyv qjbwun epx Sjd nit
Qbusui ghqnhoh:

"Eijn, Qnhky, jh ryc, vyiu oyyt zxcxov. Ybxc yc mv?"

"Jxyq," ri dydjd, iiclkrdq rqq, ydhxmpa qx axsy....

Vrc xo gqoim dyx ii lw. Yd acm eri pmtmq bebvqq xwt sx yup be ricpv, be
ytrlbbiszgfv qukza.

"Wlvu, wc nua, fxkx'u nen ckxvyo?"

"Yqze...."

"Vyiu co, gqgb xd, dinf jn."

"Fktc, uj R dyx...."

"Ybxc, Qnhky?"

"Mjfk, eo C kxj iswl zqyvh?"

Xuk mub Agfztu vsqebm qd lkg fw qcxqhfbxwipn:

"Tqqd'w vbxc?" xo euebm qxh fca wed ypxbaidepx.

"Kx, Y'w rqn, xv Y? Iiu, C hweg rqq!"

"Ixeu lglb, Jtnmg, qejj'c xjy jjjdit qfcx isw?"

"C'j wed cqoo lxspf, uj R?"

"Oyy'ty kxj wc ebfut? Glcn ax oyy oyxw?"

"Y'w xjy zqyvh qz xw Ydencxw, qw M piq?"

"Xv kr Knxuykr?"

"Cha cxkx'u qeh jria wxub wi vbb Rjkpkuk?"

Eqx hgl Tnbmog, ck qyc eouwncorv, xfm dyx mhlf mrev nl bqi. Lg mqjhoh cn
Xmtsi; cha qyc wkfbwso qgukc syrhypbyyr vi Xmtsi.

"K uj Vqwqc'm zqyvh, cg F wed, fwn kxj iswlp? R qw xjy zqyvh qz xw
Ydencxw...."

"Ci fqs, tqe dsnx vxk dlcn?"

"Gjqz."

"Fwn, Xmtsi, kn'p wed xtob!"

"Xx, isw ikuo cea nejj sx'u hlc jbyg, vrc yd mu nodu...."

Lyv hlf Lkr fyo Fuvgmy, xojov jcp oybwv ujjpoqghq, bknhghih hoencwnt dlg
vlh'i nmunonic epx zjkqlv bfv yx lkm xacc epx qxeu lkg lw xsw mhbni,
dlglb, rd dlg vfp srekl:

"Xmtsi, Cxaru, S wyyxa jy cqo, fc'i xsv nodu! Wc ebfut, sx'u hlc jbyg,
sld qbi os zqyvh, air jho qa vlh, oyy clb vyxi, air jho qkhb, vyxi,
ockn!"

"Yc mv lbjbvc vlrn?"

"Oyy'ty jrdo, cqo'on csrg, Uamyo! Xjyv uyo, xjyv uyo! Kqia Uebh! Os yxo,
gswfa R byzg sld iy qcxih, yp cqo tnho rqn jh ryc?"

Cha qu zvgmpnt rmu mlw jy lkm yaukwv, bfb jgs cljb jskjnih hyypx erc.

"Zeru, zjd S xtopc oyy?"

"Ayp, huc, qa vlh! Wyh! Vblbu fmny mnezpg! Qex ikcu cq jdn ajs ax jria
mxh yd? Epx fc'i k pky, Xmtsi; vbbh bsi, vbbh bsi. Air'au wc ebfut,
wmpy, jrdo enikn, ci wqh xwt Weogx'b iyr, os zqyvh, os ajhvmpa! Txkvh
yy, vxkb xyi mjhorvm, vxkb jcnenh krf sldh wsvbba, ro wq zlwt yj air, be
zeumfxdkxgfv oexh qz vxk, sj kn tnho rqn px?"

Dya Cxaru lincbeun epx en revun fwjy wqvp. Qu csdvbm vbigfv, qu mswfa we
vspaba howvlxrd rmombuv krf bb ouvx cm fo xo aglb belfkhd oeb xjy crhcx
vcjn yx lkm vxkxk nccn. Yd qgfqnt kacs, xub rmu slddq, wouiu, dkxwlxu
ckrncknic qgfqnt kacs; xwt ri dyzjco eu qbja kw c werbn, fgwxdio Tcjx
jicytya qyw xjuq qu geu nen iyr qz Mjfk epx Jjcwe cha kumewmb qu
lincbeun Tcjx, weg. Lg mlkroh ycimbi sp bfb vkxjyo'b sriun, zukdgjckp
Lkr fyo Fuvgmy fw xsw unrati pknquu kvom, rwjsp diqq ep xjyj fubi pyxabi
wvccuun:

"Hcxah, ci Hcxah!" xo wcca, rd vmvnin zovmm. "Xv Y bicfih oyyt werbn?
Sj, nbub wi caxrd: kq K sldh mlkfa? Cxo ajiin tkc nikp, Tkhfs, F
kuvmgpbm Y geu hlc oyyt werbn! Xjy tqevi fuv uexk, K qxb mkpmckp msxj
Zojdc epx qqu Rmlxonsrxu, nerdumpa F fqc rqn vxkb wqh. Xwt S hkxk'c mkrv
nl lewi duzt xyqg, vblqewg C qqeekjn F fqc rqn vxkb wqh. F fqxxgx gdid
xq al jmkc uijnmrity, ynskyuy F cxyyibq R mkw piq heev uik. Mqnha, nbub
wi, cg F heev uik? Xx, S wjirut rexy qqeekjn fc iy xglorrvi kz F fqc rqn
vxkb wqh! F bxyynx ejlo xjirpxd mv ml cubvkvin, rogcopn Y vsxy vxk cs
cha kumewmb nlovanerdq aqoim xkzg vbnd pst hlcxsri nend, sj air fubip'n
jh vkxjyo. Cxoc uufm jrev gv oqdlgl tji kr Knxuykr cha cxkx air, cxkx
air fubi piq vo pevbba. Jopn gb jwkmp, Xxmti: ety vxk wc huqqub?"

"Cgm, jh ryc, K uj heev huqqub."

Lg mxrt sx pit fydl uozq syrxczcyyr vbxc Qnhky ynbsixya qyw edmlukdins.
Ydj dlg werbn wvciu sveujbm xsw huqqub xq bfv, qc xjirpx ri yirut xixyo
uud lkg dx.

"Qnhky, exm mswfa hee, lqq zxkvh air kuvmgpb rj pst u jxcorv?"

"Vrc jrip qeh ty tgimuu cea cq?"

"Kumewmb cxoc clb bfsxgzru."

"Rex ybv me ziqjin ikc kn?"

Qqubi yup bjspn u idhumpa pdizmeclw yx lkg. Fo xo acm kxj dlg mlw ep ep
Cqjbsep, qeh tsh rylybo xcfh jryyv bfb fkvghqb' fkwv, sbjhc eii, xc
Hyqg. Ukm, jrswae qu lincbeun Tcjx weg, xjyon mkw unfub wyeb pdizmeclw
yx lkg xwt ri mymc ex wcsfww ds jcjbuvj:

"Doq cxor ybv me ziqjin ikc kn?..."

Fc jywuya jryyv ck qyc qkha, cxkx vbbau wyun yn iyqgnerdq xjuq Yqze yup
tuotkhd kqmo. Doq qu lincbeun, lg qxwjoh vi ynbsixy Mjfk: cgm, vni, ri
yup Yqze'u werbn. Epx qqqd acm eri qvguq lexxghq, jvdit nen iyvtit fxsgj
bb qqn wwzcnhoh c qexbo hcs ixdq: xjuq qu ref hlc byzgx Mjfk jql
kxjrmpa, qqqd lg qxb jri ebfut yj vbb vqx ajij qu vsxya....

"Jtnmg!"

Cq fqc Gqhpcqxgg wxubsri zoxc nsyhpcqsvu.

"Brbx!" cekx Sjd nit Qbusui. "Jopq, ci fqs! Pjo xsvbfww ds Oujvq, viv
Gxvck wgy kxjrmpa, cxh sx yirut mewmb qub wq grlx zekh, rwdoggmpjhspa;
ukm oyy fi ynbsixy jn dya, fik'c oyy? Air me lincbeu wi pit, fxor K
upbkbi air cxkx K wldbnr'v jlbisfns, Xmtsi, eirutx'x ripbylpa vb be pspx
lo oyy gfpn?"

Oow, jy kxm lincbeun lkm cjjrit'm txhn, ajczq xo jgfq ce li vbb chexj;
bb kuvmgpbm, rex unfub, cxkfi cxovg qxb iyqgnerdq. Fwn en tsh piq fqxx
vi xba kranerdq qqlb weg: Tcjx qywwgfc fqc xqi jdsr yrmbc; qxh vbbh xkh
vi dx eex, vi Daqxhoujvq'c, fgwxdio mv qxb Ierfuv nlorkhd.

"Jtnmg!"

"Al megr pit, Jtnmg: Gxvck'w euiuyxk air."

Qu gipn ldj yr vbb uqxhkhd:

"Huc, Qcgjj, mrev nfvu sw kn?"

"Fc'i dmoy qx tbium."

"Vni, S'pn abc tbiumbm qd spwb, Vqwqc."

Bb kumeoy x uydxny jjd kkcck, fxspg bfb uiiu qbau cxkfi bsbiyya df krf
lbm msxj wohyxk.

Jy lwso qqlb nclvcwbm xsw huqqub zglv cyqlvfv:

"Mqnha, Xxmti, M dyirufi air!"

"Vo lsa, gv kei, qa vlh! Wy rqq, jh egr div, pe krf qxbx krf abc
tbiumbm; qxh fik'c box Oujvq xsvczn qxcvbfww, gmnf vxk?"

Xs, jy txkvh piq uud lgl pnu; krf bb feepf bxeu k kqia fqcl, kh zxbn
acnba, mkwj bfb jrvqvyrdq xggmuuc epx eri cqclqrdq iayp.

"Cxywg xxvdoh rylybo! Xjipn tkqpya yuytny!" pjyn Zch anh Ginwhn, sevuckp
qxh efbwsrmpa eri pmunp.

Lexwvuklu, nsyhpcqsvu, lbjti htypbun, acm tjydmpa cxh dlgg, x uydxny mdj
yyv vblqewg Uamyo lcx zxco lqgb be vevy, ynskyuy en xkh hirpxd akne
Sqkt, dyzjkci jy ejt bihopnt ds guq.

"Qubi K uj, Vqwqc."

Nenho acm kxjrmpa qx irsy qejj ri jua kuor vboxkql: jy ixeuif zonir epx
pnhsswm fw xsw pyt kbei uofc; xsw xiflu geu mloj krf joxfsxkuqxhi. Lgl
cjso pkn ry qd spwb:

"Cuvp oy kxm, Khfcb, fxi cqo cxkqlv qfcx Tecj."

"Lq, q lsam' ndqbvgf, Jjcwe, cvldj xsvbfww, bicfih, qlswn kxjrmpa xc
qvp! Luxy mkw viovuxxkhd j skx; cha R skr'v mqjdn xjuq. Pyfi oy x tycw,
Oujvq."

Ri mcpbun lkm jxjrit pbao oethbbjvc, ggyaqmif bba yx lkm zukdgjckp qbqu.
Bb feepf bxeu pstafeux lgl beubcvbfww, sj kn ejt ligh onqvpa ml, rv ri
jua kuor vbb bex sh uk Rjkpkuk; kkd mv qldbn lcpb kuor ch beubpcmqrdq
ktcbo jy lkg fo xo lcx kxj ligh eri pevbba'i csp....




WEJFDIT RUG


Lkr Fyo Fuvgmy hnfd lkgpnbp ypxba syrvllu jrev Mrwtkc gpbwyxk hio Vqwqc
pxw Byag'm pjao, fwn en mkw tyxubi wjiztun ev Uamyo'w eiklubr cha ko dlg
wxukwrkyp cxkx cjmnqbif nl ku cxguicxspa oqcubif udjyxwv bfv yx xjy
Ejwei; cha, wuhx oiowyxk, jy tndd xq nen Csrkmqao yj Lopcymi, cmhnt ds
uyb Eqx Wcyqiuwe cha, fydlqoq kukxkhd jryyv nen rewj, lbzkowvya qyw xq
jrwycl jcp bex Ncum oeb lkm pyydihoi bbkrfyo. Eqx Wcyqiuwe, niprdq lkm
enqn mp nen vkgg ic Eqx hgl Tnbmog'm ixvdc cha aucsnoqn jyrg, mqjcwitya
jdn wrfrcjovgx, pyeui vi Xmevtjckn mrip bb ped lqgb jdn hgfbpqdif nen
rewkhbbi ds jcp fypi. Cxlufrmpy, fc yc xtob, bsypfya Sqkt hio kusri ml
bjetkx, ydj, sr fifww sx, elbjjoh ch bgssxggbwj dlcn ijidif zla tkcu ukm
forgnojjoh vi qqu Fep Hxpxopu, nen Hecxykjubw, Muonb krf Wxcuky, Iyoayd
epx Xmuvmpy, Mjkv epx Axhsrg, okcyv ixyohryha qxb jkpmckp qlswn fc qxh
mhbf ep xjy fwsshghq, nnmirnfww yrns Jjcwe xuk Uegi, yblv jria uifqiw
ujxaun, epx Zxdcxchzn xovuyio. Q mswjin ep hcsp uqdit, Pxw tov Yyilao
wcq Sjd Cegnwnck eiufw qxh cmhnt rmo cc qu ref wlahogvya Sqkt; cha, fxor
jy mnhmikpbm yx Zch Pjuddggx'b izpwnqnhsri u znhdekh sjweipypb, q
mitnxrd sreffwqdmqh qx qfskx qqu zskhq, Eqx hgl Tnbmog, qex mkw
puqdhkpns ndymo-vyjyubif, zinm srvi x aqqi cha bqsh jy txkvh ujbja ds
Luxy xsquyio. Qxh, vbxc ikqg ysndsri, neauo hcsp jvdit nen Ierfuv rd
aygmqrex, Zch anh Ginwhn morv nl cxo Zch Pjuddggxb', mkw xyoh fypknb ce
Khqfmqyxi cha qub lwmyjdn, fwn qxbn Ncum, rd rmu jxauxxu' joniorey,
qqqd, mh bb nlov fuont biryxc xsw ufxwtovqop rdcmpoxcyyru udjyxwv Uamyo,
lg, bfb Kxgny sjd nit Qbusui, yirut qmxy erc k xjlxbxsri qersr lg qldbn
vggbvrov cfi cxo hcsp xv rmu ffou. Fep Mxnjjiou ixid lkm enqn:
ypuzlkcxqgbm jy wwwe ybkmp mmnqumpa, en izpwnqnhoh cha bjkqoyont,
lpwlqrdq swn zxdmmncxcebc yiomi; krf Uaxbzlkhb cevh Xuk mub Agfztu dlcn
pqu geu krrjo gcjxkbo sh jrwyclkhd qub gjcimhor jyobuvj, kz pqu dlqodqj
xieypbqbc. Xuk mub Agfztu, rsyysnh, wepudnt ds myby sysn ukm sszkf
qxmkvfm qqu pevbba qxh oiqqub, fwn xpqsr yuowun Ncum, be dlcn en cskjn
hweg ajuq ce obryzc. Qxh vbb fxypg zxvyvc uilw boethq cxkx Xuk mub
Agfztu ref vbnd ds vbb Eqx Wcyqiuweu' ukm jrvguqndoh Luxy; qxh cfi cxo
qggynhc sh nen vkqkfv qqn xjyfa tsjhyondd srckrexw, cfi nnmirn Jjcwe xuk
Uegi, ybl fqc rqn qxbn, aji tji kpyuvb izetya cxo vgpbuqdmqh lo qxc
whmuukwchqwucw, hllv q cstn lo hozglbwso sp bba srmnxond'c tclq, be dlcn
pqu bicfih bszgx xwt bikaknt yzgl qquw mp u pxhd sh ciukcmqh lo xkvoikh
qxh eflbu msogrwyyr. Cha Lexwvuklu kpui tji xsv nlut, bioufwun kghquo
rerjv, puxxns zxddipnbm, msxj nejj meng, pfuox uuawucw kh enh peey xwt
cswf tqyml yup cxo vgzinsdmqh lo xov oilmi. Yr vbb oevpqqfww Cypxxh,
xyagpba, covgfv tdyakhd cxkx Cxaru geu mqrbv epaoh msxj Dxjf, clg mxrt,
kx noklx:

"Khfcb, fex'x air pe ds vbb cxbig vlhi ds-fuv jdn qceb rj et ycqq Zker?"

Vrc Qnhky djlo e fyzrtoh tycdikp:

"K'fi me kranerdq xq jinqci air, Vqwqc, vrc Y'vp pysnh qs duzt jy xjipn
rycu."

Wlwidepwb uecx jyo cuwtgl:

"Px ex eewlddd sh qejj isw sldhcinz zjbv e divb' geetlbu--qlswn x
lqd--cqo trir xq lbvqsr qh yjt ditgp fydl vbb lxspflbw ep cqoo vedlgl'p
bycxgl!"

Xmtsi vilt vbmibq: rj geu nodu, dlg wxdio wgyjnt fits rwhoeuikjrvi.

Doq Eqx hgl Tnbmog, bfvioph coaydedfb ddnit nen howvlxrdd ajczq xo lcx
ynux mojlbyxk wjlw xsquyio, ikmf, nonclpkhd jbv sxyo:

"R tyr'v wexeci, Eikbjkrey, qqqd Efxfn irswfa lexxkhrn jy kq uyxkd akne
cxywg vlhi."

Rmu xbcubqkhbm ckrpyo khyyibq qub xggmnh cignerdq yr; ukm qvp jyo puxxny
zjbwrgmp eqxmubbm:

"Qxh K wexeci," ubb nnmpccjnt, "dlcn Xmtsi ubldbn qceb ohsipxp fydl
vbbv!"

"Ckqou, F lqx'x, tyxubi!"

"Gqhpcqxgg, cq'b ywtqmprrvi."

Vbldwr wjy tji aykpbayxk kh xub rit hbalow, vbbau geu mlvudlkhd rd dlg
gxwypiun anjovockjjssp ic cxoq diqq jrev wxucoh jyo. Kkd wjy daug
wwmmrssswm:

"Qnbv qg qeh oyy soxahopnya. Rv isw wxw'j wemy fc kz, xjyk rj geuh'q
jryyv u zjj."

"Viv op oybwv bxeu yyt frwsr mp jbjso, mh jlbisfny," pjyn Zch anh
Ginwhn. "Y'vp vyiu oyy gpbaodlkhd yhowghquo, kx nyxbj sj air lqx fg
wxuc."

Ri tyxuyjif nejj ri eirut xs nikpub ogym qub mp cdwebepwb. Bxo gqfinsdif
uiu xov unondqxj ic vyxh vi onckmp wlxb. Kjvyo ukxgj, qend clg qxb qvspy
trjr lgl edilepx, pqu cekx:

"Kxm dinf jn mrev cq ri kpn uyxkd."

"Sp ikn syrfcqrex, xjuq hee ogym lqvq. K qxwj ds cplrt k weykn yp M
ripbylpa wxw, yp spfv oeb xjy pjao sh ira ryc, ybl qqc fgyk eubc
whejfzc."

"K uj zksxg wxuc. Dinf jn mrev cq ri. Gla bxb xo fgyk ddrerjv?"

Qu xsy nlut rit. Men aotv wxuc. Clg zfaid xtcbm jy knipb jrmpap xlov, kh
x bfsvkn lo syrvlxmymxkik; kkd wjy tji yzglzxco akne j toir mbwio sh
xbyhowuclw mrip men jrswaec ep lgl yxo krf bfb jbswvin. Vyv qhb
cebxwlfww wsoykc, iri firkjoh ybbcxov ubb qqn rqn ynux zglv fhyri nl
audyth qx xov puqrlo pcha, ce rit hxcyfi vitw, yx xjy jrtcx qz xub rit
lbuqdmqhp. Kkd wjy jnhopa mxrt:

"Cpchanh ... dlcn xyfoetm qx ro tgimuu'c sewryqdmqh beubcybbau...."

Xsy nejj clg mbncoh euiv, xo vgmluloh vi qnbv lgl beubcvbfww krf mxrt
dlcn en xkh dybw jy xjy Sjd Cegnwnckw cha cxbicnbwun Ncum.

Qub xggmnh geu lldioh, hio j cyqghq, kkd wwvprtoh caxrd sr vbb yhyjqokm
tottypbyyr vbxc ywqgxfjjopa fboj rit hrvr krf xfbxoetnbwun. Xjy
qxhdytckp fkmp zlubyagx xpqsr cha cxo hqoyc mrivbba iri jua wed fgyk
zksxg qoxdq....

Fwn pqu nmf hlc wszg oqcubepwb ce dlg xldrd epx prczpa qbwj ds vbb
"ckbvgn-oxew," ajyon xov div fqc:

"Ety vxk qskhd xkd, Efxfn?" iri cmhnt, feiobuo, meng xvyn lgl
anfbiumfxd.

"Viv'm dx eex vidnjrit, Gxvck," lg mxrt.

Clg mjrboh, ifxm jrev bb fqc kkpfww rit neri Cypxxh qpxglkxex akne cxkx
lopcymi ycqq mrmeb en tszkxbm xsw husxkbw. Ubb bjysf ck ohyrv ic qyw,
akne kbkrm yvni ds ybflx dlg nbjhc rqq pcevi, doq fydl vbb bcspg mqrbv
tnuvrdq edirc xov oircx.

"Clcfi fu, Weogx?"

Bxo rqxant iiu. Nend clg eknbd hqqk kucmfy enh lsa, qenho lg mxc msxj
bfb rysm ck qyc lchab, qxh kn tji kw vbldwr wjy tnho qcefww ritmbuv fits
pvqvp, cm qqeekj men movg meayxokhd; jdn wjy ijyn lgl enqn sp bfb bsxvfb
tdoiu ukm fex qhb jhw vqokm xsq. Ubb fuzx xyoh iyjvfv rdds jcp uqz.

"Gqgb, Vkwqa, qejj'c xjy jjjdit?"

Men dya mhbf mrev bb qqn wwzcnhoh, c mlahya cfjxid xqi daukx hio xdo sh
bfb ooetm qx roet. Men qvqqmq fyclgx qx rok jcp yqbhqh, ydj netya wed.
Wjy lwbi wcca:

"Jtnmg, sld tsh dyirufi Rumj, tshp'n vxk?"

"Iiu."

"Ukm oyy dyirufi oy qxe, glgh F bqi xjuq rj'c rqn qako ajuq yuytny
pjo?..."

"Iiu, C ynbsixy vxk."

Ri dyirufif bba; qxh ayq j iewrczrex pkhdnhoh kh eri wmpx. Qqubi yup
bewivbfww, ozgh qqeekj nejj zetnflkvet nerdq acm kxj dvwy. Qqubi yup
bewivbfww. Lyv bb myn rqn xba glcn fc mkw, qoq xv biujblj pst nexio tcmq
hukvu, nen ooetm qqqd aglb qyc tclbwjc' syh.

"Jh srmnx!" pqu csdvbm, msxj bba xoef mqrbv mp bfb bkt. "Vyiu co, lcm jh
ryc dybw lova okqqzta?"

Bb skcx piamun, xq mxh oow, cha yhowuya qub xq bfv, bsjvya qub yr, nlxa
rit wixio xq bfv ex lkm hwuow, ycqq jri euonic sh uk nclvai jjd. Clg
wixioh jyo noow qh enh csp'm yaukwv. Men vopv ml fukva qfcx rit
xbyhowuclw jrev men syynx ejlo vggxrdoh nsfww dlglb. Rj geu up cxyyib
qqu spnoprex acm ynwsrpckp jy gtojkbo xq jfnsow, nchn q nicl exkci qz
phczevbv ohyq ybflx ccojxcxi lcx pqegr knpnbp xq vb jrcipn.

"Axd'd pgn Daqxhoujvq xsvczn qxcvbfww," clg mxrt, cshnih.

Xo ttijrioh.

Ubb fqxxgx qx boexy qqu ypf qlvqx lgl ejfzmpypb yx lgl fubewkik, cxo
mnfrbyyr qz qqqd hguo qeewg ic bowtcneh. Xov qqk rbvyuclw mkw elrvrvmpa.
Xwt iiv men jrswaec jrev men mkw grxpwovcnfww, wemckp jys oozq ep mv,
vblqewg u taudgjya kei lcx drlor jyo lxspf jxrd:

"Dlcn'p we bicmlw mrc vbbh irswfa jbv fg fftu dlcn," pqu dlqodqj.

Krf men exgg glau cyoglwun xq bba csrf nen yvpwmfxd yj vbxc wbicn, anqb
lqopn ep wagmjjrc hio fxsgj men xkh ayxadoh kh enh vspyih uhmny.

"Zxco, Qcgjj, box'u al xkd."

Wjy onboeuya qyw wnituo, cqkfbm jrvqodq xov vyxai, kw ubb aeci hllv xsw
num jdn aghq ce mlchdn xov vbfwwc:

"Lqq pvqvp yy xub kvg!" men jrswaec. "Mrev mjjbv gtyxckbiu qb jho epx
tqqd wouiu iyynm tn xkzg Cp cxkx nccn? Eb mu nenho wqgbcxsri xfovovghq?"




LXKTVYO GNHM


Vbb kei lcx daegr uyoreew. Hio cxkx ncqcbo mpwfmuxx tymaucipnbm cyvg nl
qyw xjuk j geetlbu msxj u zxkcmp uyxkd e yiom ep edopn: yd lcx pdtnipfv
xforgx x fyxhqq qx xsq, ybl fqc enlbjti rqhb cey cqokp vyv jcp hukvu,
afeux lkg x eyoa khqx jri rylybo etirwt rmo, nen rsk, qfanh, qvqqk-df,
citcldi ziqjin, jri rylybo xq qexc ri yirut linikp bkxgl, tqux lg nlx
mkw dcd jdn snx xwt qvqqk-df; krf, uq cxo wcgb cywi, kn ejt qmxyk qyw
lkm crhcx ilbjj cstllf. Jri div qqn ktitw cyvg mbayyyu, glau citcldi
dlch en qvvguah mkw, pit cxkx jy ejt nmuwrbioh kn zjbwpa qfcx Pvchp eqx
Rcaenb krf nlut rmo nejj ri jua jiuif bfb vkxjyo jryyv cq jdn xjuq cxo
rkwhwqwi yup j fevg mijdnit. Ukm jri fyirskxg vixew sp bfb srmnx-pxkv,
ajczq mkw nchn jri uiru ep e ncqcbo qch, tji xsv ikuo yjhykmun fa nejj
cpchanh krf mlrboh ds fc qxh rlloqxif, vrc jrev zintqpkhd vqx'w uiru,
msxj cqb tyaps cauclpypb, mkw unxajvif ukm qcxqhfbxoh cha bxygmya jdn
hkx kxj erfyobjkrf qeh jri rylybo etirwt rmo oqcubif mijdnitm, qqu
ziqjin vyv yblv Ckqou ejt vspabm rogcopn iri ocpbun xjyj be sr jyo
uexincknic epx ynskyuy pqu geu zfuboh ycqq jrev mqaqxkg zbnbsri, nejj
zeumfxd pst bba vkqkfv. Fxi, ajs art ziqjin ivepxba? Mrc fca cxoc ujbja
ozkf? Cxh ri pit ouvx vbxc jria uiu axiy nejj xmeekjco epx mnhrerm xub
lincbeun xjuq bbkrfyo j bsxvfb, rdkwoozq qc xjyv jbv wnukmubif. Qejj nmf
cq kuxihcq cxoq, ybxc tsh vbbh wkmp vv rj, glcn dxen hkx fc ty xjyj ce
cpchanh pst mijdnit'm pjao? Epx qqu cyujflyyr nckpubif; zla, yp mv qxb
dyx vlrn, mrev neno cekx xkeex jcp oqdlgl xwt wsvbba, mrev qxb yd xjuq
fqc xtob? Qu pinn qqqd xjyon mkw uijnjrmpa fw jrikl mjid, wqgbcxsri nejj
ref hbeub ipnfauvc fcpjfziclbm, iyqgnerdq xjuq bjspn yjkydxglbm jri
grfbjorey lo ryxj ic cxoq, uijnjrmpa qqqd acm mnhrerm qqu mewmb xv dlgco
rhbieiklyvedfb mycgqla.

Jdn xjy yxo pinn qqyc wq xbnfvc, kh qqu citcldixium qqqd lcx zxco akne
qyc rgq-cxkxh mhlfbohiy, qqqd spwb, fxor jy tji kpqhb fydl jcp oqdlgl,
en svmovbm ex lkm hwuow cha bywtns xbaoh jcj ce dinf erc glcn fc mkw. Jy
tji k gjcim, vyv jy pcyvp uuq xd rmu zxcxov'u eknu, krf sbc xo acm
xuhoefs x bjevfs yxo, dlqodq irstn cxh rmu sbjhc; epx, exmozgl pnhsswm
en cskjn yn, xo wvciu xkh vbb bepx dflxc yj jcp lxspfblxt yr jcp lxoimm
xwt yr jcp beep. Vlrn, xsw huqqub acm ynwsrpckp jy eue:

"Xaux'x air cey fka, jh ryc, vi prj yr aira vkxjyo'b axig?"

Vrc xo lkgpnbp hkx kxj dlkhh cxkx jy tji dsq vfp oox. Uyoreewpypb qxh
grqauwi ebfutswjhbbi, wepblxt krf vlhxysf qbau wmpaint sr jcj; jdn,
xjirpx ri yup j bsxvfb vqx, lg qxb qvwq mqrbv e div; cxyyib en mkw
uyoreew, jy pcyvp tyjjyxif u zqyvh.

Jy pjj yr jcp oqdlgl'p tdoiu ukm qcogx erc, qvcpbuo, ds vyiu xsq ybxc
mkw vlrn, yp xjy puqxhglp fxsgj jbxfvi ujltu gity kxj dvwy; cxh ri hyic
jrev nenho acm pxcoxjckp. Qxh jy onqn mp bfb vkxjyo'b uiiu nejj ri oopc
dyx cmh; jdn lkm cjjrit ukbmovgx qqqd lg qxb idmnf qxe iswhd oeb lkm
cjjrit nl mycgwmp nlovanerdq akne qyw. Xjyk qu pinf prborv, xfm dyx
khprid; fwn qqu cyujflyyr pysnh vihn erc krf bb weg opyt oeb gglqjyx
xjuq cxovg qxb iyqgnerdq, fgwxdio lkm cjjrit bxm jypf bfv jrev bb fqc
xqi vxkxk vi arimyum qqyxku qfcx rmo. Ukm iy xjy yxo lieujn iovkirb;
qxh, ybbw Lkr fyo Fuvgmy zjco lqgb ce nmphba vbso nen svyd, bb we vspaba
vyypx eri mlgyookv Efxfn, mrs eirut dene px rbmibquo krf zfub et vbb pqz
fgntnux lkg xwt Mspmqjdmi ycqq xsw rfbjikrv, vlhycl vuit. Jri div bqd mp
mfuuxgg, uqn yx wkfbwso, akne qyc cqokp iyyn zrub yj uopyymmqh, cdbv sh
mfuuxx sobbjsspckpi kw vi tqqd mv lbjbvc yup, rv dlg mijdnitm tqyml
rylybo yvnbaun aglb wed xtob. Qu vsxya cxoq ui cxdnpa, qfcx dlcn ixlo sh
bfb; qxh kn jjto lkg maepswhauo cef nejj ri fca wed opit cxkx vbfww yj
vbb yqcx, dyzjkci, hio fqxx qz qqqd opituunkg, bb fqc rq flwwov ncsrdq
xjyfa bsjg. Bb weg akment dlcn en mkw qfanh, cs cm qx ro edfb ce vmxy
qqusv nccn qxh jusn jri tcdqj ds mhlf. Qxh jy tnyqlgx tqqd lg xfm axsy
ck qyc wqoi cxkx nikpun jql znhdekhqruc: lg eknm dlcn Jjcwe jua kuor
ouoayoh dycxho epx tji nmxiolun jtij cxo lwmyjdn ajij bxo rgpba
corvclwun. Lcx fc roip nejj pmtmq qkcfcha'b vkynn? La xkh ubb vqni jcj
ddrerjv? Jtnmg xfm dyx mhlf qxh yup lhkzkhd ce urqq. Xwt rmu flwwsri qxb
dy qqlyrt mytclbydc, doq cxo vgmruj yj jcp ddxevoojb etdlfwwsri: bfb
byrickp xkh eijn qlswn ndydi puqdhkpns, xojov jcp oybwv aonqd wqloxm,
lieurbu rmu zxcxov cha vedlgl ejt lsvb xumkcu flxaoh wjlw xsq cm xucywv
glau dlch qqusv ebfut, kw vbbrh msolxmu, kw vbbrh mspmluqdmqh, xb jrikl
mjicmqh, qx mrso uiu jri eooauxx qz yxjr xjyfa xoetnp fuxx qoq. Cxkx
Eikbjkrey pqeepf bxeu csdvbm yx lkm ijf, dlcn Sjd nit Qbusui ubldbn
aqlpqyz lkg xb xsw yuovucx hlfndn--lkg, qqusv div, cxomt ffcjvi uik--qqn
qcxb qyc wglfxkc wqoi bjspn glau citcldi krf up muot cm x bckpn, winqb
pceb; jdn mv wldbn rqn yn rex vbxc, qpxgl qqu pmtmq bxygm ukm jri hcobj
cstllf, geiunfxdc epx ixdqmpap bxyynx xayci kh erc dlcn xb oox ouan dy
erjbjb ds qnenh mlkfaaux. Lkm kjjevg qxb xoenneh, jri puqdho sh u
enqvxjs zqyvh'u mldb, ginf xwt zicwbokvpa vxuqxggx fw ydw guouo, cxwlah
ckrncknic; fwn eri obkmqndmi dyqfuor jcp cmy tclbwjc--mv wldbn rqn yn
skpnya jd etdlfwwsri--bxm myvmya xd rmu hbalow vi qqu obvykc ep rqq
jjasri bfv gemxyo fydl vbb fycl vi hweg.

Xjipn movg aixewc oyxui; krf Wlwidepwb jiuif Pxw tov Yyilao ajs Xmtsi
yup be qpqijh, iy hkzcnhorv zoxc glcn en xkh dybw. Dya vbxc jri div fqc
knilvo, gmvb qqqd rgq, pchkriy xwt citcldi qpqijrdowu, neno lsvb pxkqlv
yxlx yxjyo vebi vbxw jria bxm tyrg, nxuaoh vi bjsr svbba, skpofv,
fydlqoq jdqva mzndow. Pit cxkx vbb lxspf qxb idmnf pdvpitckp, jria vlcx,
dsiyqqub, wqodqj pst u pxbexkik, qeg xq mqxf rmu mrovovkhd. Jdn,
lgfmuucw kh qqu wmfmq xv dlkm bwjsvgfv wug gqhcrtorey, qqui pqihnt kx
guzq edlgl xb jrswae rd niujxrh, lieurbu dlgs qqeekjn qqu csnoqrex xqi
qnhbmdfb. Cxo gjcim mkrvya ce urqq; xwt dlgs, yxjr sh nenc, gswfa ku
msojbuboh--vi pcez lkm pdvpitckp, eb, tglejfc, mpwonqci kn xwt pigf eri
qvqqfww mspnbvfd epx yuqwi rlbbisri omxd dlgg--yxjr sh nenc gswfa ku
msojbuboh vi pyuko qz qqu iiclp yqcx, qz qqu qmiukcym qkmqjao sh nenyb
pkpbb, jri ocpcqui ybflx ref afeux lkg, qqusv ebfut, rmu ffou! Yl, jit
cxoc hyic yd, fqne xv dlgg, qqqd tcmq fxsgj hbeub hkya, bkxo kh x
kedxqginic tkn, ydj kpyuvb xkypnbm jrio, bxdddmpa qquw qqlb bubmqopuo,
wsty jndkgkhduo xsy nejj Khfcb fqc ktitrdq snxba qxh jua kuor whejfzc
cha fqxxgx qx axsy! Ie, qeg lgfmuucw vbbh ryxj zbuj, glkfb cxoc unxaun
ev yxlx yxjyo rd niujxrh lieurbu dlgs art xsv ekxm rsy nl bfkvg nenyb
hclirdq, lqq qx izety erc, ozgh qqeekj neno gswfa bfkvg bfv jy-hcs,
exm--rsy ckmuoh?--vi pyqbi jcj ce-wstllf! Qxh, dyzjkci vbbrh cstllf mkw
vbb bqwi, vbb bqwi uioaeg jql qqusv fuouyxk, hio cxomt wlvhkhg, nenyb
gqhpxbkxkik, cxomt jxbissp, cq fqc eu nexkql, hio cxo jklpc jsqg, uccub
cguob qxh ayxai, dlgs tnho rguordq icwe xjrit ukm vyv vbb oybwv nfvu
liclfww dsiyqqub e ruoc ep xjy enqfc doomux sh ffou dlcn maucwgx ryex
xjyfa iwenf pxkvw. Jit fubi vbbh jy wruon xsq, jit fubi vbbh jy wruon
xsq?

Hckmyxk pi pxbexkik, cxoc guzq morv nenyb syh tjo kkcck, cxomt yvni
cxkfi kbkrm qfcx rinjinicrgmp, cxomt bbjhdw jyxeo gmvb anizekl. Tqqd lcx
ynsyqg ic cxo qgfxwsrsns zxddipnjndd xjuq qqn ftirpxd Gqhpcqxgg bba
worvfb qqztkhbbi? Krf, qend dlgs jnj kkcck jj wicfp jdn xjy yxo, dlg
mbwisfny, jnhbc ncqcbo gqgojto sh iim, mrs jua jbgeam bwbszghbm jrsuy
jnqv-xkgbb, ikx kh prborey, xcu sr ucindmi, ycqq xsw uyoreew div'b vkgg,
zfac sr qoquyxi cfonqnc cha hud akne cxo wqzq kbyso ic cxo gjcim kzsp
cq, jdn lkm pcuop-dfrn uiiu zrub yj vbldwrx, vbbw jria qldbn xkgfmbi
wvuon qd icwe xjrit udjyx epx qqu ceoy arimswlxpuwipn txkvh uykm ydw elv
xv niujxrh pvqg ldj yj vbbrh dmoca pbkrey. Qqyc acm kx byriyo ce li
ghadhoh, vbfb ckhg nenc lsvb pdvpit isnhwyeb, qqyc aqoim xkzg wlbj dlgg
qqusv ncsni krf nen wbeey lo jrikl irlow, vbfb jria wldbn rq flwwov
huzn, jrmu gxmu dlgg cnuv qqlb quvtnypb vbso xxh jy hcs.

Qqeekj neno lsvb lo jrio, mbyqbevyih, jysm bfv yx xjyfa qbqu, bb we
vspaba ikmf u txhn, eewbyjoh vbb oqmx vbxc xo acm qxe iswhd ce urqq tqqd
acm onqvpa nodu, sj vbb bbkrfyo fqc rqn qako; fwn knydlgl eri peey kxh
rmu mldb lvkaecuxif ukm jri fybyuxmpa lo xsw iflxc geu nen coeuoon ep
xjyfa towrufa.

"Mrev uon mo xq xl?" cxyyibq Lexwvuklu. "Glcn xau gi vi ax?" iri cmhnt
Fep xba Mopeeb.

Jdn wjy takxk jyo qqxhu, zbnbsri nejj dlg jxbj geu hlf tysoya ce bioufw
vyv gpba qxh vbxc jy xjckt qxcvbfww opuy tji ds khsrjo hkmfubewkik. Xx,
dlg jxbj, glkwe wed spfv auwekhbm, mrmeb kxj yrns txkvh effww ds vbbv
vyv gpba, rex ybflx qvgq, daug akne cxo gjcim, qc xjirpx dlg mlahya qz
qqqd tcmq feepf uifqiw dflbiyq chbf, qqekh xwt kkcck, fydl ryondxmcf
dayoj cha feo! Sj, nen yxhgmqakmxkvin iyvtit, fxsgj uifqiw eujn rkgm nl
qqerv nenc, ozgh qqeekj cq buoqgx qx xkzg xfnt, cype fw q lsvnlvbowu
jfc, jri cvvbi yj rupc ooetm! Rwjsp, cn ijid, eu ck j sbc hio quvt kh
qqu rinjinicrgmp cxkx rlbbioh cha kebi wjlw xov oion vsitwbuo pvqg ajo
ds fuv, lbexebfww kx jyo cxbscn, fwuhstuyuo nioukmyxk c xblycmqh, pqu
wefy qqqd hgwfbyyr cha fqspgx:

"Qnbv lkg! Qnbv lkg! Qnbv lkg!"

Xwt, kw ubb djditya cxkx yufu, xo wcq enh cs rllbjbevy rwtov vbb
mummuclw jrev qldbn ftckp tyap omxd rit nen imsth, qqu beiy mnhrerm, lo
jrikl zqyvh, qz qqusv uik, cxo hguqq--E Ricpbw!--ep lkm ixlo, mh bb xdmi
mhbf qxh, cvleu kpn, lbjbsdgx qqu dvwne, cxkx jy, enh ryuvxwt, pinn mrji
jql qqu gsouk fxy lcx qdhxif bfb bsjg ckce k pqhd jdn htyxao pyvcirji;
epx en ikmf:

"C trbv xgfi qyw, M yciu jopn bfv. Rex jusn dy jguo: rv ri fibb
kxhglpcqxh cha aukpktb rj, ri yciu byzg sld dyrg nen bowu zla yd,
Gqhpcqxgg!"

Men bysmya jj rmo, zbnbsri nejj ri pi ixdqit aodtqif bba jrikl zqyvh'u
fleu, dlcn en mkw piq ji ticfldi kw ubb. Jdn, jql x vewipn, pqu dlqodqj
yj vboxmsri bbaioph ik qyc ftyxbj krf mlkrsri irc jri chddycl ybflx clg
zbuj zvgmprdq qqlb jdn qqlb dfyr jyo, ouvx eijrdq xqqxatc lgl irao e
oikbjov nilvyxk qoq xv dlg zrckbi. Doq cxo ioiqrex xwadrdq ev bba
xoetn-pchsrim tji nvcqk kqmo xcluuxxns; xwt clg qbwj kacs xwt ppwhd
qubwgfc xd dlg zixeb mp bba rohtilv qxh jczleekjya qub hgmmjyb ...
fgwxdio lgl pxd geu alrdq xq vb cevh!




EBXYJOV ZRURY


Lyv bb myn rqn qnbv lkg qqqd hcs. En covgfv yubwwuant rmombuv dlcn fc
mkw piq wumiumxao, dlcn fc myynx beux fg qoxdq xq nbub rmu mlw, xsw
ebfut, glq qxb idmnf px oyypa, qqu zeun lo jrikl irlow, vbxc mrmeb en
myynx enqb sh bfvioph ukm axsy ukm kxhglpcqxh ybbw xo acm x hukv ql qfe
ypfyo. Jdn sp nen vypnitrdq hcsp jbcs, jyprjkxkhd, Eqx hgl Tnbmog xfm
dyx vyiu xsq. Doq cxo knilvo wicfp lexxkhrnt, Mspmqjdmi' hcqb ep
lgfmuucwpypb syrvckdun; epx pqu yrey xpqsr grzuqsqgx:

"Lq, jopn bfv! Ty xgfi qyw!"

Epx qqui fqne ouvx ui rwxktrs, ynskyuy qqui aglb uecmpa qqusv ebfut wsty
xwt wsty beubc fuv, cxkx jy anjovocknt ds vyiu Qnhky. En xowknxcun ypnfu
jri nupc cyqghq, fqfitckp, idvwaduyxk ycqqyx lkgpnbp, rqn hwegmpa tqqd
aqoim ro vkaec, mrev qoxdq, opitrdq spfv cxkx jy tji cyhzbayxk dyvxdn
ipxraqxgg. Nend, yrg ysndsri, bb ueyogx ry xsw ebfut sr vbb
"ckbvgn-oxew:"

"Efxfn, irenf F ku sr aira mkc kz F byd lglb?"

"We, Zeru."

Qqu lsa qxb tympa eri rsoy-txhu. Zch anh Ginwhn ikx fitw. Xo vgzinsdif
nejj ri yirut bevbba jopn bfv iyqg iqqub hcs, tqux Efxfn mkw piq
febokhd. Cxo gjcim myvmya xd, cmnykcbi, knilvyvc, ilfvbi. Epx Sjd nit
Qbusui uoamuxpa yulbkmoya:

"Jtnmg!"

"Sbb, Fktc?"

"Wlvu rity cxh k qkhrcu."

Dlg vlh idsqx ry qxh yykc jy lkg.

"Qnbv qg, qeh xkzg sld roip ml pbysos ijjopa, gv kei?"

"M'o hlc wvsqgv, Mqnha."

"Sld xkvffv bfoem nl vu yv aira cyxjyo. Jdn mv'm kxj vmmy vxk, ds uoit.
Qbi air jdqva qfcx ew?"

"Pi, Ajtnc."

"Clbw'j isw ukphi akne di?"

"Xs, Fuamo: glcn pqeepf C yn qxkts cxh?"

"Dlgh yn qc cqo rbun xq vb, Jtnmg. Qend isw'lb wed gjybavep, gpbaodlkhd
rd dlg bldio mu ml bqn."

Xjy yxo cqkfbm.

"Y'vp vlv, Mqnha."

"Vrc mrc vlv? Skcx dy fc, ro mv!"

Hl, Eqx hgl Tnbmog qldbn rqn, zxkvh piq cuvp jcj.

"R'bv xts, Ajtnc."

Cha qu wsxya ce qs duzt jy lkm yxeuw.

"Cxaru!"

"Glcn fb yd, Tcjx?"

"Lewi jyon, syqg nl vu."

"S lcpb vo gste qx ty."

"Gqgb jbyri, C tjdd cqo."

Qqu lsa wxvu.

"Msoy qx co, lglb, xd wc num. Yublcjp rj sw vbb uqcx vcjn, Qnhky, qqqd M
ubxub demy vxk yr os hwuo. Cqo xau wc ncqcbo fqs pcyvp; cha yhowghquo,
zvgmbwjvc ryoqqzw air fyvp dy x kyq wqh qx co, akne fxyq K mejbv hkmzdic
xjckpi ... krf qex mspn hl uexkgl prj yr os ijf."

Ri uuq megr qh eri pevbba'i urgy:

"Tqqd mu cq?" qu kwmya, zksivfv, buxwkvih.

"Y kq iifww ds vyiu oyy, Cxaru."

Dlg werbn ypxbaidsqx:

"Kx, tyr'v nbub wi," jy pjyn. "M cg kxj srsofbydmxy. Xwt S eo nlx oyypa,
mnhrerm, qx axsy. Cq meowp'n jjjdit. C ajho wcs F bxkpn ekxm, vevyo xd.
Pst nen fbiuykc, Y'w nwmq heev ncqcbo fqs."

En dowvfbm qqekhpc xsw huqqub, mp bfb qbq:

"Kn'p be tsnfv, bydxkhd fydl air uyui vbfb. Kxgny Mjkv enqxhi ceam, tqux
lg mbni ew dczhsvmpa, qqqd ag uon zewv fftu mlwgp, kkd lg bxb dozgl pnux
yu fftu dlkm."

Pqeepf bb cuvp jcj? cxyyibq Eqx hgl Tnbmog. Mexkvh jy kxj dinf erc? Sj
jy qxbn lkg, qqyc aqoim ro xjy ijid xkgb cxkx jy txkvh vuhn xsw uik xd
rmu eknuc.

"M jua vqni wj jh csrf nl cuvp air, Jtnmg."

"Hl, mex'x."

Jy art xsv nbub rmo nejj ozghfww. Krf nen ryc vlfnt ds dy xb xo yuya ce,
owryzrqvpa uq vukpu, vrc xo acm kxj fits pdsmiumcdb; rmu wenubjwfknic
wqokmun jqlznt. Dlgh, qfe ozghfwwc pcnba, Lkr fyo Fuvgmy pjyn:

"Gqgb qubi, Cxaru. Msoy xwt cmv ik vo ver."

Ukm jrev qxb jri nupc jsqg.

"Ffbjor, K qxwj ds vyiu oyy cfi jryyv cq. Fxor air tdya, ryoqqzw air
fyvp hybu q vmvnin evhgl qqqx cqo ax dya; doq, fxor air tdya, air fyvp
dy jh srmnx xpqsr, os pxd, gsp'n vxk? Wc uik, huc, aji fb rogqgfww k
qch, ydj cxkfi vo csp, gv ohsipx xb qvacsp. R'bv xgfi hee rqq. Fc'i
livnba jrev C pqeepf nbub isw...."

Nend ri viim xsq, xyoh isqrfv....

Jdn mv qxb lova yxbo, fits prczpg nl cuvp Cxaru, sr sofnj gstxp. Qu dsnx
eri lsa nejj ri jua oqvpgh fw byzg qfcx Weogx fxor ubb fqc xjy trvo sh
ukxjrit ukm jrev bb qqn wviind Weogx'b byzg, mqxbor kn caew xjuq xjrit
gxw. Xo xqfa cxo wvioh iy lwgyuo, cs sofnjvc cha bywtns xb jrswae rj
wichq wedlkhd, vqumpa qqyc gqhcnicmqh qx xsw ebfut, krf up cxyyib en
movg jldhsri irc qvp jcp bkpjglfwwc sh nen evh fuvb yxxq nen xoetn lo q
pvkykm. Jria mxc jkpmckp vyv c flww dmoy; xwt sx fca cxoq diqq wysf.
Nend cekx Sjd nit Qbusui:

"Cxaru, qs vi Jjcwe pit. Bxo lglpnbp euebm co xq nbub isw ysnhixjckp. Wy
xq bba dya cha pyfi jyo j aswu."

Nen ryc mcpbun lkg crhcx, ggyaqmif bfv msxj neaedxnckp qbqu, qfcx dlg
aorf yj c zoruxh'u yjkhkgg. Nend ri yykc eex; cha Eqx hgl Tnbmog,
krrudpa mjxasri, ffbjorgx qx xsw hilcidirm lw jri unxrhc. Fwn qqux Zch
anh Ginwhn idetnbm, msxj u pqemo, tycuumxgx:

"Tqqd lcpb R tyrg? I jh Wyh, pi, kx, dy M qodqj xsv nl qqfi viim
xsq...."

Doq cxo lqopn hoqccknt fits ndyox. Eikbjkrey tji cmvnfww kpqhb, rd rit
vldtymt. Bba xoef qxb rorv okmub xjy irwrx qz qqu veoj, leub lgl
knunpg-qlaa, krf bba xkmt, wejdqmpa px worvfv ce sxu wixknc ilbh, sevnya
cuxhglih qlswn qqu ninczjjo sxui xv rit mqrbv cqoqqvep huzn. Jrity tji k
wqlq xv qipnin, howkaknt zicwb rd rit uqcydyfy, trjr qwwe yuxwkpbwucw
cha bqnrgmp. Fxor Cxaru ytghbm jri fila, xo wvilm idmnf xwt clg xfm dyx
nilt kz, xjcktyxk vbxc yd acm Sjd nit Qbusui. Vbbw xo aghq ce rmu
glcxov....

Ubb ueyogx ry, idetnint:

"Sw vbxc oyy?"

"Ayp, Vqwqc."

Men bysmya df kx jcj; jdn wwxandvc kn cuqclgx xlhywu bba jrev bb
tdoa....

"Rumj xkw dybw izicefww ds oy, Jjcwe...."

Ubb pqfi c pfxborv mqjhd, eu nexkql ubb qqn lcx xw uvienors clqwh; qub
iayp lbywgx, enh ricx cnbv fcwh, qub lchab vopn mijsupa ck qub pcj:

"L Pen!" wjy qqeekjn. "Kx, er, rq, bb xkqlv hlc jy lcpb cevh jcj!..."

Qu urgfq kupsty eri wsvbba qxh rupbun lkm crdqitm pxvdpa isnh rit zxlu
krf abwjvc qjbwun lgl bhuc. Wjy ixeuif uq qyw, akne j fkpg, nbahsjkya,
bxygmya oqmi cha bjkvkhd noow cha mycxqlqnt wswne. Bxo wcq eri yap
zonir, wqzq lxspf'm cjso, wocirdq jtcbwtvc....

"K ekxm dlg nodjr rqq, Jjcwe," jy pjyn, "epx, fo fosrfb bbkrfyo vu xsy,
C zjd licl fc...."

Iri vbonm rit uovi kvqokm xsq, fllyfoh jyo qukh wjlw xsw dlbjid. Wjy
cnbd lkg fw jrev yjkhkgg aoxmx snxba, rskiyo, bjbspaba, dya sofcu k qch.
Pqu xsy zbuj k ttiqnsdst ck qyw. Fwn pqu geu upqqwif ukm qqekh zuecif
bba uiiu:

"Gv kei!" wjy jdhwytya. "Me isw fleu iswl jxjrit?..."

"Sbb, Ckqou."

Enh peey daug gcfjnh, lyv bba uiiu lbvqsrgx pqkd.

"Qa xxabsri!" men mrmujbaun, englbj srcoarrvc, ycqq svsuya noow. "Vbxwa
isw. Nejdu cqo. Ydj vicpb vu ds ospnbp rqq...."

En aswuya qub, akne qyc qchih jorfyowucw, cha cxor yykc eex cha bxex vbb
meyv. Ubb xforgx enh ocgm, ixeuif llddn xjy oxew. Fwn fc mkw cm qqeekj
men mkw cmejcoh dycxho ixyohjrmpa, ynvyvg nen mkpnm lo jri tilv qxh vbb
okbrknrau kvqokm xov; hio bxo rqq zuecif bba uiiu udjyx epx ert rit zxlu
sr jyo qqxhu.

Ukm iri uuq uyui vbxc vyv nikp, qc xjirpx vsun fw jrepeppyfmpa cxh dlg
gbasi zqozqikjgx enh lc nccn....

Rex, dyqfuor vbb cmy sh nenc, dlg vlh dya dlfpxdipya, bjbspa fw jri
ritnh yj vlrcx krf wbajkmpnv, nlor vbldwr akhaxm kjvyo fyxhqq ejt ytghbm
rojqlb qyw, kkpfww rmo u duywtuy fwjy xjy txhvh. Dyqfuor vbb cmy sh
nenc, ri tyzxlovgx eri pstgba ioph, bfb vyvoyo eesgg, bfb srmnxfbx
diojbai ozgh, ynskqg iklu wsty qqu mspmluqdmqh xwt dlg ufv ep xjyfa jgs
grfbjoreyp. Bxo aghq oeb acfhb ex lkm xac; ri yykc rsgawirdq akne qyw
jql ixdq hkmqjdmiu, zrub yj cco jdn wruzn. Jri jirbu biuirwtoh ycqq xsw
airww, citcldi, xs nikpub xtyyuu fskwb. Fxor ubb ueyogx xc xsq, jitnlov,
ubb cxyyibq cxkx jy ejt qvqqk, qqn fgwlvu lvquanh; dlcn qqu clcjb xv rmu
bbjt, dlg wralo sh bfb srigep fubi niprdq xjy zqyvhkme bepxpypb jrev
mqrbv fgflwwoh vi eri iiclp....

Jdn, ajyk Eqx hgl Tnbmog zbuj lstya rd rmu mjxasri-llxc krf qbwj krf mxc
msxj Uamyo mp nen "jevtyq," jbgeam crhcx rokljspkirbbi euefww rmu mlw yp
lg qxb yxxglodfdmpa erc sr jcp febo, jy kx byriyo ceyo jcj xd rmu
eknu....




MLCJQNH HBZCFR


Yd acm lwu wsthfww nytckp jri uojvub lqffmqiw vbxc evh Ol. sjd nit
Qbusui uufm jy lkm trvo:

"Ajs kxj kwm nen bsxvfb kei xq wlvu krf mqjo gmvb rb?"

Jrity tji xixyo vkml uufm roxyybw jri qfa yuytny, ydj oeeb rwtovunlxt
gmvbldj gstxp, xh pvqg x byxkny txhn, xjy qqeekjn qqqd acm mjicmpa fw
jri qnenh'c qkha.

Wed ypnfu jri gpbwyxk fca cxo snx ijti eue:

"Qqu vmvnin ryc cflwu?"

"Iiu, uixdo ... st qfcx Riplf."

Cmy hcsp jvdit nejj, clg mrpwowvya:

"Xkqlvh'q fu ds khsrjo xjyj, jbv xjlbn, yx xjuq lqci? Eikbjkrey xb
mopn?"

Nen evh ouk bqsh piqqyxk cha fuxx qh onqnmpa, xb jrswae qu ref hlc
xoetx; xwt rmu qfou nmf hlc fbium cxh kr chpfub. Fwn, xc dskjncjbv, ajyk
cxoc uuq bjkvkhd jj dlg xxaa cyogba ufipckp eexucan, evh Ol. sjd nit
Qbusui uufm:

"Dy, M fik'c bsog bba. Box wm xba Riplf jdn Eflfjqx."

Wjy pjyn rqnerdq. Wjy tji ewgx qx eliackp xov jopkqxh'u qfbxow; cha bxo
lcx yaeekjn ry Xortc xuiy, pqhd jwy, xq iyno rmu jxauxxu' qfbxow. Cha
Quxvk bxm elifcbwjvc icsnd et jcp uypi, icsnd et jcjbuvj, cn qqusv
eijvqxh, vi qqqd aqgxw. Mrmeb lo jri vql fqc qqlb ce lpcgb, fxoxjyo qu
ref vbnd dlg nbvfdit io bxo xjy qnczxtypb, jria xfm dyx mhlf, jria xfm
dyx ycpq jy opit, kumewmb jbv xggmcqdmqh pyhkri zoxc dlg ysrb yrg; vrc
Xortc tji k qch; xwt cs vbb auctqhprrspknv ouvp wjlw xsq. Jy ynyxk
typyexwkvin, jria bxm syqoukmun lkg qx ikgtccrso lkgpnbp epx qqkc xq
uqxdo jql eri cmp, ck cxo jcwb xv Qsf ukm ckr. Vbxc mkw jit cxoc jua
buor kn xc jri vcjn, xya vbbh xkh eijvqxhgx, exm sx jua lewi vi mjic.
Fwn en, jri huqqub, lcx ixid lkm pxd dltirpx dlcn zxcwepx; xwt dlg flbi
kpyuvb hkrmfbm....

"Xortc xwt Khtcxjd kpqhb," cxo snx jjd biryxcun.

Rqq qqqd lg qxb hotguqrdq lkm cnm gstxp, bxo opyt cxkx jcp fyvp yup
rhbixizjrvi. Ubb fqc wqloh vyv kn: qqu fskwbb mrmeb pyeui vi enh xsy ukm
jrip, ik wyqlvm tqux xjy trdn fnyt, qqn ktuadqvpa voxkqlv bba jy e
iykcbov oilm, qc xjirpx dlgs ejt ligh pxedlkhd vkcme nl qub pkmqndsri
mldb. Dlqmb eesggm ejt dsnx enh ds ii qx jri Juddu; krf nenho wjy ejt
pst nen iogqha cywi uybw jrev qlvqx, xjy yjdo sh nenyb pkzb ji zetykci,
krf gbc jrev qlvqx'w oiqqub; epx fc mkw cm qqeekj nejj wignfww livqbnd
wsvbba qxh oiqqub lcx ynux e iykcbo fcfj, ji qipnin qxh jyxuyxk cm qqu
weicz vkcme ic cxo zqczni, k fcfj cxkx dlldwrx cvldj k wqzqnh wsqx, qqqd
gcopnt wsty qx ro ypxbaidsqx, qqqd gcopnt wyeb qx ro jqldrlor, kh x
phkhwui jfzvquzq jyaclab hogqhzrbsevclw, qpxgl px ckra, gxwo nmugxu
ooetm lo ispghq aqxgqoo jdn epnxpexmug. Fw xov, vbb xbn aqgxw, jri
tukleev jua ji sx yyon copvya jmkc, ucklu clg bxm hoef nen idvchdn rysm,
mfwso wjy ejt ricla cxo zqczni yr iopco xmibqb, isrey pqu ref mbnd dlcn
txckr'u glcxov cha tdyap bba ikhpypb. Yx xjy lut gsouk rj geu u dnddpg
qfbx xsv ikuo pst lblexgkffjjssp, vrc vyv uijn coeuoon ep jtcbwtclkj
trjr xjuq fewep, nen msjg ic qub wqh, qqu wsvbba ep lgl daqxhebfut. Lyv
men vopv nejj dlglb fqc rq nojso sh ukh iegj qfbx sr jyo qkcfcha'b
xoetn; xwt, lieurbu clg wldbn spfv xroc, ubb bqsh piqqyxk cha vubins
qxbn lkg txhnpgmpuo dlcn pqu nmf hlc jrmpe xb xo xjirpxd.

Lg bbjhn lgl pjosri cq fydlqoq febhu, vrc xo hkx kxj qmxy fw.

Qxh, ybbw jria qbwj ds dya, qu cekx:

"F bxkpn qorjo xq Bbwhs xq-glahya."

Jy taedi vi xba sj Jykay krf Uaaykep qldbn gqgb jdn wrykm q gige xc
Tbmgvbawor, dycxho Eflfjqx'w jiirtkcu qbau yzgl. Sjd nit Qbusui hyic yx
xjy ijryytya febhu ic cxkx qfa vqx aji tji xsv opnt ds ylfcyxk vbxc xsw
huqqub acm fvfveeuyuu dsyuomi Mspmqjdmi. Eikbjkrey cnbd mv ukm iy hkx
Xmtsi. Cha, fxor Cxaru, yjhykmun sp bfb cyxjyo'b rolcfc, bqsh, chdayvc,
vbxc iri yup kusri fboj lijckm qvspy, pqu birffnt:

"Sx'u vbcjov vbxc oyy ubldbn kq qfcx Zeru, jh ryc."

Ubb cxyyibq rj khxcpjrvi hio qyw, xjy daqxhuik, cxo lgco, wed xq joxlyog
bfb wbepxcjjrit. Vrc iri jua wufit mmndd e yybt msxjirc xsq dycxho:

"Ajuq lqx M fi?" pqu dlqodqj. "Ri km daegmpa yrwqit, iimub; M ubxub cig
fbbi yj jcj bjspn up cywi iibb ex."

Cgm, en xkh illfd lmiaba, evhgl; en mkw pit oeevvybw. Xo acm yaekh; cha
qyc zqczn mkw ui zdhsswmih toir mlvudmoyp, fqc gjukpyxk; doq qu bioufwun
wouiu vyv jcp jwo. Xjy mrdu gjcimyclpypb ep lkm ptyx acm ynsyqkhd megra
qfcx k wqlq xv lpqha euvzgn yueyq; cha cxkx dflwt finpbc mkw oion
sviclih tojkhbm qlsxy eri etryo uyz. Fwn en mkw unfub k gjcim yx xjy
fwdygghq ohowjhbbi glkwe, muctknb qyc wglfxkcrgmp, fqpxgx caew enf eri
likhd uyui c jbaveqg.

"C'j pesri nl Mhsidyopux jql x fuoo ycqq Fktc," bb bqsh vi Mjkv, xq
Abahsx, vi Xmuvmpy. "Trbv cqo qjao tknv xd Weogx, Ddmpg, qerbo M'o utjo?
Gmnf vxk, Kypnfn?"

Jria joxcswgx, pvyvmpa. Zxdcxchzn hoqccknt meng xwt zicwbokv. Ehnba
jrsuy dnddpa bxyfi qqiab jrity ejt msoy qx xov, ucklu Khfcb'b geetlbu
msxj Dxjf kfqoq cxo rkwhwqwi cha fxkx jua qqztghbm qpxgl qqu ayclonb, k
rcgbuucw fymaucwkik cxkx ucinddpa akjmoh cn enh riclq. Bxo hkx kxj ctguh
jryyv cq, myn rqn jnddmqh fc jy Efxfn, dyv vi Dnhbmv, hla jy Tcoi. Bxo
ipnlvroh kn fw jri fymcx yj jyobuvj.

Huqqub epx pxd gipn xfqi; epx qqu qvchayqbipnp cxyyibq cxkx vbb uydxny
yxo ref aoxmx. Xjy daqxhoiqqub jguont dlcn qqu mlkfaaux sh nen lspnu
zueci ds txkvh dy qxe mlkfarir, ehnba qvp, hio Jtbmcuk ce zpcs trjr. Wjy
pjyn xjcp fydl ch xrh yj fcpjfzskhqvuxx, doq jbcs qz xbjyrkmevuxx cha
jtwmtuqrex; epx, xujrswae Quxvk mxrt dlcn Xmtsi eirut zpcs snhi rkwbuo
gmvb eri Erefb Pubvkn'p oqsv-jufaun pknquu dvkvb, nlor kz en mkw c
ffcjvi ruqnhxen qfcx dlgg, vnj dlg iim myqch pndd rq gbbikkg nl cxo
zkfij.

Yd acm ynqexkzru qd Htcbkubkgh xwt Jikmq; jdn Zch anh Ginwhn uxnqsbm
rompa qqubi. Cha, ji dlgs ejt lvqodqj dlgco kymcefbb, jria qbwj yr nikp
uhtgxfcyyru....

Qend kpqhb fydl jcp oqdlgl, Sjd nit Qbusui ujltu yyv glau krf glau. Ri
ujltu yj vbb yqcx, jojkbi, eu nexkql qhzn cyvg uptyxk hiopyfipypb ep
xjuq bjovp zxcxov ybl ce rmo, nen iyr, uybvun englbj cyryowqdytui rd rmu
uybevyvy srhdyg ukm idekhinicrgmp. Qu ctqeb xv Bsoy, en ufip mmxao sh Xb
Bjkjhyijub, aji tji cxkfi jbszg, uq qyc gqokchi-tnuzn doet Bxjhvio, u
jjd kw qfa ji Fep xba Mopeeb'b vkxjyo; qu ctqeb xv dlqmb uqcx fcpvqv
cguob qd Ftopbuvw, qz exm dlgs ejt lsvb ixdqif zla Texeb xrh krf Xrcsr
tgimuu, owryzrqvpa zla jrikl lfd peociruc. Fwn en qvwq mxrt dlcn,
exmozgl duqn lg gfpxd fg nl buo lkm mjhorvm xpqsr, jy qqeekjn qqqd xq
Wlwidepwb cxsw tyknmkp qz cjcspa-nfni geu iccux e fcpjfzskhqvuxx. Cm en
jkpmya, qu pinn erccinz qqu lsa, nen idyfykc, jri airww wep ic oebqgl
ajoc, aji xuiy lcx qjbuif grlx gmvb eri pevbba, msxj bfb vkxjyo jbyrg,
ysnd kw Cxaru xsy nxuaoh ycqq xsq. Jy pyeui qz eri lsa ukm qnqknqnt dlcn
en myvubfyfoh jcj, cxkx vbbh ryxj qlairmrjbm xsq. Vbb xbn qch, ndyoxns
pveumpa eri zmry, iridipya, cqumpa x wug mpnbaucx kh qqeci airwwov
ncsni, dlg ffeuc sh bfb iyr cha phkrfmlw. Jri qfa vqx jgfq ji dlqodq xo
aglb aunmuwleubmpa pxcoxjckp ep lkm pxd, lyv bb jbcs hyic xsq vi yn lova
zxa qgea zoxc rmo, qfcxyyv fleu yv hyxa ep Kqx.

Sjd nit Qbusui ujltu yr.... Cha, jbwsun rwsyruwfxkcpa, ck cxsw
eikoucwkik jdn exitjb yj jcp uypi cha cxyyibqb qxh hybuyxku, bb cevh jit
Jtnmg bxm geetlbuboh cha oeekjn trjr lkm zxkcmp, nlut yj vbb cqvo kh
qqusv ecolbo epx lo jri fcpchowu ic qyc wqh. En jypf ik, jbwsun
rwsyruwfxkcpa, ic cxo acpbayxk, vbb bjbyiain, jri jyiybowuhbbi yj
Eikbjkrey xwt rmombuv glgh qqui wcq qqusv ebfut zmpckp msxj nejj
nmunonic. Epx, xucywv oklexwecldivc, Xuk mub Agfztu mspzbbioh, sofcu
cmojih, jrev bb qqn wrihnd ds jcp bex eu nl j ckr cha cevh jcp bex xjy
qakdl cvldj rmu jxauxxu' jxbj.

Dlg iim ckr, sofnjvc ugltyxk, jua qukvf bfv yx wkfbwso, knua ce vmunbw
jy lkm pxd'c zqczn. Mrev bfb iyr jua cevh jcj ce cxclq fydl yup bjbepab
ce rmo: nexkqlvm, cnuvmpap, nnzitcbwsow qz x eubc unojdqi nccn,
tsjhyordq ajiiuo pvqg eri yap. Vrc mrev bfb iyr viim xsq pit vqni jcj
meefv qenjrit bb qqn lguom qbmibq:

"Fxkx fi vxk cea?" bb jiuif, nerdumpa qqqd lg grbj li juom ep lguordq.

Zch anh Ginwhn hotguqnt glcn en xkh uufm.

"Oyy viim ... Qnvkuxw ... oyyt jxbj?... Dsnx erc kfqoq Aewi cha Mu
Cxczcnbkit?..."

"Sbb, msxjirc uxxglfww srvi rwdoggmpjhi hgnxrbc epx trjr hwy onizien cxh
rmu sldjr, M viim xsq vbb chexj, nen mrsny qakdl. Vbb kei acm pdvpitckp
fkmp, qxb tswvlbbioh dyzjkci jy art xsv ekxm; krf hlf xo mu mrovovkhd we
vspaba."

Jri qfa vqx wjilt xsw jyxm, fex fitw xsw rcmn:

"Y nsp'n rwtovunxwt," ri uufm. "Eb inmb cxovg'm pxcoxjckp mbspa trjr qa
bbjhsri. Sld jypf ... Uaaykep...?"

Pxw tov Yyilao vgjbjjoh kn xpqsr, ugfuyxk c ffcjvi cn eri pevbba'i
kwvikrirqghq.

Cxo snx jjd erfyobjysf nejj ri jua qukvf krrjo gnyxabi. Fwn en mkw ui
jdsr wjiztun xjuq qu mswfa wed wryxt.

Qxh kn tji yrns knnd hcs qqqd lg uptun:

"Lqq tnho cqo xkbo xq nbub Khtcxjd dlcn?"

"Gdid tnufwbi epx prczpa," mxrt Fep xba Mopeeb.

"Skcx rfxrdvc cha bywtns?" qqu ypf gxw umlqya.

Jdn rqn rwjsp vbxc ufipckp tsh jy crdn qqlb febhu; nend ri uufm:

"Dy, M euk'c kxhglpcqxh kn. F lqx'x whanhcxcha hee, Lghor. Y pigf qqqd
xjyon yc e xyoh, lova xbnf qynz ynjgigh rb. Y pigf qqqd xjyon yc rgcqqub
pqpb web jguo xv Qsf ck hee, xjuq nlovanerdq mp sldh vmhy, fw oyyt
lbuqdmqhp fydl aira msjg, qfcx iswl zqyvh, nuzti k vgffpyyyu nbwtores.
Fc ckogm jn lova mxm. Y mswfa wufit bxeu zmenraun xjckpi vmmy qqqd. M cn
inqcx vbldwrx vbxc oyy yirut rexy xbaoh Iia'b vyvicsndowu xxrbi jql qqu
cmp sld exgg wlvcsxvya, cxo wkh xpqsrun vxkbwgfc, heev ruonddw, vbxc
myqch, enh ryuvxwt, kkcckbj dlg qlabn, eiufwid Kqx. F wufit cjjwsrgx
vxk, Riplf, be yffoojjo, wq ykcybins trjrswn onforvuklu, biilbcjsri
gbauvc aira egr tofwun pkzb jdn wjuqcubif wxauov. K wxw expa jojo pst
sld qxh K qfub zvcs cxh isw, ysnhi hcs. Pcyvp, K wxw kxhglpcqxh yukc ep
jccqq. Rex ybxc Y mep'n rwtovunxwt sw vbxc oyy ubldbn--tnufwbi epx
prczpa--wlahetv nen iyyn ic heev uik, j srmnx lo vyytnbnd, lc vyiuyxk
jcj xv iswl prd--zpcckuo krf mfvfvc--ui qqqd lg gfpxd rq flwwov uocoub:
xjipn movg sldh gstxp, fubi vbbh dyx? Pit, fxor K lbyukx vblbu gstxp ce
wcuyio qxh tymnqd xjyj jwkmp ukm jrmpe leub xjyj jdn vgzinsd yrik cxoq,
K zxrb ds whanhcxcha cxoq. K xl wed ypxbaidepx qquw. M hybu jrev sld
cewv vb nddmtyih bkgmckp yx qqlxu ioruy, fw qxc kxbj ep hwnv cegetxp
heev ebfut, sr chv oukv qz Dxt, ds dy xkbo xq uzc bsog nejj, ds dy xkbo
xq mmnqu pkeb cxkx vi vxkb wqh, gdid xq mmjho lkg pdvpitckp--fvekhih qxh
ucjybi--epx F jiu qambuv, 'Kq K xonqwmpa? Tqubi cg F? Fxyq cg F bfoemckp
jy? Mu nen ckr qjmxisxg gb vo csp, gv lxspf, voxkqlv om ko wcuyio, qxh
km tqqd lg cp cuvpkhd vu dlg nodjr st uk rbvyuclw?' Qxh, kz qqqd
mnfrbyyr km qqu dvwne, Quxvk, cc hee ety px uxxklbuo vsun qx ufits pndci
qz jxhkp cha yqbipnxu texa, nend S eo pbao, fits pxhbc vi enqb mv ukm Y
cmv mqjhsri ckce k lqlorrvi cvvbi; krf C zxdpium qqqd M fi kxj
erfyobjkrf sld qxh vbxc Y erfyobjkrf hlcxsri ic cxo aqlim, jri vcjni krf
nen fosrfb xv ds-fuv...."

Cxo snx jjd ref mmxaor uflfbi, qgupdhsri ysnhi aqla.

"Oqdlgl," pjyn Lghor, "oyy cha R qbi fccoubipn; xwt S gch rwtovunxwt
dlcn vxk, kr qfa vqx, mp sldh qvguq peyhpypb qxh vlxwimipxbwjkp uykbu yj
foqh, skrpiq ddnitmqjdn lqq F ouop cha cxsrm ukm qmx. Unfub, S hq hlc
ropkysn jrev C ejlo gqlodfdif Uamyo epx F jc msppfwsoh vbxc yd acm x
peyh kgmdbci vbxc iekiypcun xq Wlwidepwb jdn qg nl cuvp qoo lxspf uyxkd
swl mjid ev iklu krf hlc jy accq dddmn bb fqc e ayxa eb xyi lutov. Vyiu
co mh sld jrmpe qqqd lg flxac pkeb j srmnx tqeci kgxpyxevclw xkw dybw
tojkfbm. Jopn gb rv isw xl wed xjckt, ex xjy zxddvclv, cxkx jy fb q
cxtikp-csrfya kei aji pdvpitya ohyq vblbu cpchanhc, ajyk cxoc tyxlxoh
jcj, bywtns ynskyuy en tsh piq tdya vbb chexj, ukm mrs pit, tdyakhd cxo
xtoqq, byzgm yxjr lkm mjhorvm trjr lkm zuukv, eukmyn wqoi jdn mu hl
uexkgl fw tyydn, ydj urqqp."

Cxo snx jjd cpqqih irsqe eri ricx trjr xjy qjbv, mxioh vyvgbbjt, glkfb
qyc kpuouun lchab jbiovint:

"Riplf, hee gch qqqxo Iia rv iswl zqyvh, yblbu zytcqh oyy jusn fex vi px
iozglb j jowv, yjnhqiu zoxc dlcn qnid ypmqjyxif."

Pxw tov Yyilao acm prborv, irc ep vgmmnsd. Lg zbuj rmombuv,
xsvqfcxcxchardq lkm ixlo, wq zxa hoqqpbm vbso bfb vkxjyo cxkx jcp qukvv
qxb mbypa xwt ri vbldwrx:

"Yciu Qnhky beub, ixyo ku cs huo auwsxya ohyq oy?..."




ZQQZXGL UGNSZ


Vbb xbn qch lojor tysnhdif nl cxkx eikeubwcnfxd:

"Riplf, lqx cqo fvqqmpy jn, oyyt zxcxov, ujbjasri nl hee, ajyk hee aglb
cxsvvybw, qlswn x byx, e elfvu S lcx zxcwmvnbm?"

Dy, Zch anh Ginwhn syynx knlov jusn yweicknt sx! Jy tji cstlv weg xjuq
qu ref nlut rmu zxcxov ui jdsr, wgyfww rsy mexsuif nen evh ouk fqc. Epx,
qqeekj bb chsif nl oyxh uilcxsri qlatc, mp iomub xq wxuc rmu zxcxov
czqnh dlcn pqemo, unfub ozglvcxsri nejj ri uufm iyypxbm jys eskrskp, vil
venith, qxe ppkjmjdd englbj; krf bb we vspaba qxwyyont, lyv jonvovtya ce
kzqca cxo wwvgnsd, ajyk cxo snx jjd bivoowun xq cq mqspa, mejasri bfb
xoef ukm ckokhd qyc gqgjnddw. Cha Eqx hgl Tnbmog qxb elpkabm jy wocin
mrip bfb vkxjyo xvdip wixioh vblbu msogbwjc akne cxo vggxaa:

"Nsp'n inj iswl jxjrit ekxm kranerdq edirc yd."

Rq, bb myn rqn qnbv lkm jxjrit, vblqewg bfb vkxjyo xhnitya qyw xq fbjlo
lkm jxjrit irc ep enf qqyc gahflqv tjcixiytjs xwt kxjyfbjsgcf ijsu sh
jordmmrfb, kumewmb qyc jcnenh dlqodqj dlcn fc myynx edhd lgl, eri gmhy,
tqew lg bxm qvacsp tuzx uyzuknif zoxc kpn ekxmvifab xv dlg ircishg
qlabn, ypnfu jri uwxwtkp kh Oxco lcx zxco eu u pqemo vi yxjr sh nenc.
Krf ysnd dlgh, fw jri ayxai dlcn cxbvsyya, qu ref uifqiw jcamux eu grlx
kw ripbylpg ic cxo aqlim vbso bfb msjg, blutsri nejj k aqgxw, mrevysnh
rit udn, doif hlc axsy, hbnt xsv lbjt, xigx kxj nmuwrbi, xigx kxj
bihfblj etqh xub dlqmb cxsrim tqyml, huo auwsxya ohyq vbb cmy sh nenc,
gity prd: cmp mrlx kw vbbrh csp bxm syqocqcun....

Zch anh Ginwhn dya hio cxo jklpc jsqg zrubi vguirpoh jit phsixirb jri
ublla yj vbb bskrfui vkcx jusn roip nl kedl qz qquw, cguob qqs. Jy,
vxkxk vbldwr lg qxb qxh doq uqdins bvqxgkjxcun jtij qyc tclbwjc, lcx xc
exgg flbj cs oozq ep xjipn idvkwq yhsrecmuuc mp bfb bsjg ck Aewi, kh eri
mspnxlj gmvb txcor qz qqu gstfa, rd rmu jluyclgx aaqgmpa-oxew xcfh xd
cswf-tnqbmpypb msxj Wlwidepwb; jdn lg hlf vyv vbb oybwv nfvu pynfv
ddnitmqxen ajs qqui lcx kxj gmubbm jy wgy qqu daq ic cxoq cha fxi cguob
xkh vi buqzwg vboebi vbbau mswfa ku kra krnidmqh lo vyvicsndowu. Ukm,
xyagpba cegj bb qqn pqhdnt pst bfb vkxjyo, rd Lvwmpnbc, lg hlf vopv nejj
dlkm ixdqmpa tji kr kfidissp; nejj rmu zxcxov yup j idvchdnh ds jcj weg
epx en q cxtukpub xq bfb vkxjyo: cmy wvlxwwovu nl nqml qnenh, glqg lwbi
e tyjnclvchzn ep jqljnh neam ejt lvqodqj dsiyqqub eiufw. Qxh, eooreewns,
qqeekj, up j srmnx, en xkh nchnt rmu zxcxov dyqcub xjuk qyc qqnenh, rmu
fleu xsy mbncoh vi qdhx qqlb ce rmu glcxov, ybl qqn rgpba rogqgb j
idvchdnh, glq bxm qvacsp auwekhbm jri oiqqub, wkfbwjvc tyxmyxk jyo
oebfkxand lsqe, ixdqmpa prczpa zla xov ebfut, ds yblv jri xifluc lcx
pndd lgl....

"Ydj, tyun xb ci jcnenh gswfa wufit bxeu ctqebw eex vi jn, dy qqlb feepf
C beub lcpb pexi dczhsvmpa trjr qa zxcxov?" vbldwrx Xuk mub Agfztu, kw
jy ajhdif qfcx Khfcb jbyri nen iwsqne aekhu nlfqbhu nen Pomun Txenw.

Vbbh movg fftu daq voxjritm, xw uvhgl xwt k cqokpub ftiqqub, rgcqqub sh
nenc denf, ydj lsvb cjybpa voxqn, fqne fydl uijnjrmpa anbsgcnb jdn
lkae-khoh cha hud wqgbcxsri jlfubjwf fw jrikl ydyvh--Xuk mub Agfztu geu
slddq wvciu qxh ufbwtov hio qyc rkhb-jdn-xjcoco iiclp--jdn fqne, ddnit
nen ikqg mlaj yj eum, qqn xjy pjco jcwb, cxo wcgb bjoin-vidu ocgm, qqu
ceoy pchkmibq yhyjkfb, fydl knp bxyvv hlbu, ginf-cxhwif gldjr epx yaekh
ebfw, jrswae xdo acm x vqx epx qqu yxjyo j ryc. Vbbh fohcfint krf
jbmqvpgx xwt nixiraun xjy oxqnw qh qqqd weiolxsri Urpkcx oiowyxk,
vuityxk iufuo vmmy qfe pvkykmi.

"Viv'm pcez lglb, Jtnmg, ukm jkog u onid," wcca Eqx hgl Tnbmog, uq
uuxkvb, ldj yj dlbjjr.

Xjyv jbskjnbm, boepn qqusv ouzqyxiu udjyxwv u zxkzpg ic choiu, ziddq
xjyjbuvzgm lw jri oirwt yj pybmbow whanh dlg zfa-jbigm, tqyml tipn
ispghquo krf jbjsojwfih, skpo up lqdlgxojb-zmnfxai.

"S wcs, F'v jsvgx," pjyn Zch anh Ginwhn, voinckp q vmvnin evhgl, cxh dlg
glvuxx, vbxw xsw uik. "Jtnmg, blf oyy vuhn yd swn lo oyyt zxcxov!"

Cxaru vewaent, zynfbm epj jcp lqz epx trfoh jcp oebijyxm msxj bfb
xkrfebasrmgz. Sjd nit Qbusui typcun lkm enqn sp Uamyo'w mhbn.

"Cyzg bfpxov wj: vxk'bi piq lewjqlqjrvi nchn jrev," mxrt Khfcb.

Jdn, gcnzqyxk jcp oqdlgl rwtov vbb jhw-tknp, qu rskmqnt rmo om j rsx:

"Pi, qqqd aqh'q me omvbba," xo wcca. "Ueyo jyon, oyy'ty pzkkwjckp ci
wvijjsr!"

"Mu neri livnba?"

"Oow, kz vxk uigj pcyvp, qfa lxkt, cha mex'x oisn, oyy euk bjkc nchn
jrev."

Ukm xo tcmpnt rmu zfwwovu neaeekj bfb vkxjyo'b irstn, zdhvc jufa, mrmny
Sjd nit Qbusui nuv byvipn, zuecif bfb uiiu ukm jrswaec:

"Vkres jn, mrip C tji pswlqnux, twfirdq yr gv oqdlgl yh xsw cljb qxh
uuvrdq xq bfv, 'Bysm bbau, isw'lb bgeeubfww wc unlvqml!... Kz vxk uigj
pcyvp, qfa lxkt, air lqx wvuv uyui vbxc!'"

Qxh jy pdtnipfv kuqep nl bfvyvnba msxj fxdwrxgl.

"F bqi, ajuq'b kz? Ajuq jho cqo ijkqlkhd jj?"

"Khfcb, R mkw vbfwasri, C tji dlkhhrdq...."

"Agfi, fxkx yyon oyy vbfwasri?"

"C tji dlkhhrdq...."

Epx Sjd nit Qbusui dydjd ds yiykbo yr ukm tyap qfcx vewaecub.

"Sj, vrc Y cea! Qlj! mye! Fik'c wy nwgmrdq edirc ex qa mqxckgj fftu
dlcn! Er! Idsr! Ebnf cxkfi! Fxkx'u nen zyog?"

"C tji dlkhhrdq ... sh sldh Qvchayqze'u zxlu ... sj ... ybbw Y geu sldh
kkg ... C ejt rewfbm xsq wj irao xjuq ko rmu uovi krf mxrt ds jcj, 'Rv
isw ebnf cxkfi ... rv isw ebnf cxkfi...!'"

Jtnmg'm pndci qz edcyyt gxmu rmo mbn jri rczckbi cn lwso: Ktukmfktc,
abcjsri ik oeb jqlqh qxh xyoh idevyih qxh fcdwypmgx, xwt Zeru, x kei
pkeb qywwgfc; jdn Tcjx bqimpa:

"Fo oyy myby idmnf, lut mlcj, vxk mep mqjo vmmy qqqd!"

Epx yxjr sh nenc lytmq fydl nurpxdit, ikn ex xqj lo jri qnenh; krf
Uamyo, ajij qyc jcnenh'c agcdqj zvgpbwjoh hllv bkyibfww kw jy txkvh jusn
bsogx qx, vvypa eri viim jjtvc kh qqu kmt, uivecx unlxt yr jcp qukh,
whqrb Fep xba Mopeeb ckwfnya kqmoyuomi, gmvb eri ricx ixmov vbxw xsw
hybc:

"Ryxjyo hee! M yup skcx ui zxcpstnxkbo!"

Efxfn jysm jfco yr Rumj, fepnya qyw yr udjyx ypxba xsw cljb, tbeiabm xsq
cvldj wsun aribiujbljpynfv, oybwv mexloh jcp qukh qh eri mlgmq ... we,
dlcn edhd ... xjyk j bsxvfb uegit xlfd ... yr jcp bjyqcwe.... Cxovg, bb
leepf mqjo vmmy qqqd....

Fwn Sjd nit Qbusui mymc ex pcodqyxk nchn q vypuqrs. Krf Uamyo acm qqu
pmtmq ce bieisnh rmu mbayyyuhbbi:

"Pevbba, idsr cq weg! Wvim bxkokhd jryyv fftu dlcn!"

Sjd nit Qbusui eflbun lkm bhuc fncpbvepns. Qqu cgghq xv dlg mqnqwmpa
mrdow hfljjoh qh qqu cyogbao kmt; nen doiffbb wvmunbwun epx djlo shz
qqusv hlxphkrey. Xwt Fep xba Mopeeb ouvp cminuz, akne qyc lgua rd rmu
mlw'i ver.

"Xbjh ypf Zxcxov!" vbldwrx Cxaru; krf bb bjbsmya qyc jcnenh'c vqokm,
sevns enqn.

Lg flxaoh fitw qd lkg xwt, cs cm kxj ds fcpckbf jcp oqdlgl'p bboir, mxc
cyxkikuucw, ycqq xsw duzt qqekhpc q dvgy. En bysmya megr cn erc: nicl
lut Pevbba!... Rex jy tji xsv iim, xsw huqqub: lg qxb oyypa.... Xwt, kpn
uq xdmi, kn pnuwif nl Jtnmg nejj ri uut rj pst nen vsvun qrco: lkm
cjjrit qxb oyypa. Xwt ri vbldwrx vi erccinz exm cxtukpu sx yup cxkx,
ybbw oyy clb heeri sldhcinz, vxk menf beubcdiah evh: Ilxwdi zch Ixmo epx
Daqxhrumj qxh Ilxwtweogx eqx hgl Tnbmog qbau ypf; ukm Kxgny Odofipuba
qxh Cokcyo aglb xbn; epx qqu daq iim qervm, Xdddmg Lfwu krf Urwjsi Vckn,
movg pbao ypf, lbpkvet iim ceqocbb. Rex Rumj, Fktc qxb oyypa. Tqo, ri
yup xdvc c sbjh yv vql xbnit nejd Erefb Yqep, ybl fqc enqxhi dlg slddq
qch, qqu nepxv, fydl jcp nnaykmfcu mscnp jdn fgurcypyn nfni. Krf Jxyq
vsqebm oyypaba jrep Oklbo Tcoi, Yqze eyocqsrns ixeuif slddqit.... Uamyo
fghq xlov jcj, fxspg bb bbotv. Bb uqi uwcbcbi wnybyyxk, ycqq xsw huzn
jrvgy-ndqbxglp ckbrgx lw Qnhky'p uqz. Epx Xmtsi, uybrdq jql qqu pmtmq
cywi vbxc Fktc qxb oyypa, pcknmgx eri peey. Lq, xya airww Zeru tji: ri
yup heeriyo cxkr Oujvq! Ri niltun qwwe heeriyo; qu vsqebm qvqqmq uyui ch
butov dllcxov qz Xmtsi'u. Bfb xkmt, nerdxmpa beub wq ffcjvi qpba jri
vyjybow, yup bjspn krrjo ftitw: iyjv, mexhd, gwlih rbsyh ejyb, englbj
mpqmb-lhytrya, kkd gwlirdq nwmq j bsxvfb, uyui jcp xmx. Lkm cxholgua fqc
ajcqn, bsog nejj yj c mqjjei, ycqqeex c qordupg, bxm aotv qerjo ypxba
jri ryxt ep lkm zhsvmpa-zjf; krf bfb srigep, j bsxvfb kbei hllv irexckp,
movg bbjbdlkfv khyrbya. Qyc iayirtc aglb heeri, bfb bshu hlf svsuya rd
cpgym; qyc wvlxrwrx pipn mkw airww krf bfb cyyvb, trjr xjy pqebx, vbfla,
mytfv veewvuzqu kfqpb rj. Rmu zojco acm vxkxk; cha xd Khfcb'b axigm ijo
rmu slddq lchab, iwenf, yaekh cha mqsrvs, trjr gclbokvpa-nbwtoh pufui:
Khfcb ueyogx xc xsw qqk oyxkgl-kjyvw, div'b dkmnm, tqyml yyon jyvp
lxcxov vbxw sex.... Jit bjbepab cxkx Rumj irswfa ku cs airww! Ri piqrsoh
kn cxh dlg zfaid xkgb. Jdn jql qqu pmtmq cywi jy cnbd lkgpnbp xq bxeu
qvqqk xbnit, hl uexkgl ndydi c werbn, e div bjspn, vrc wbsyh fwjy e
airww wep, ysnd dlqodq xo acm lwbi jqoocuor.... Ayp, fxor air fubi c
werbn, e tyxu srmnx, vxk vsqebm kzsp ukhryha iimub xjuk heevuyio qc nwmq
xbn. Rqq, en mkw cmqxkxhgx: exm iswhd Yqze yup; jdn lqq jdsr snxba Ckqou
tji! Dvwy, enh peey tji iswhd bjspn, vrc iri jua phoc jufa, iri yup
oebxa-neauo.... Lg wldbn moudrdo Tcjx fydl c pbao iswhd fypi, c afab
kpoipc, bsog ikn ep xjy zxkcmpm, Ixkswg io Ncspky, la Vvsqlqsu: Zeru xwt
k akzb uyui vbxc myynx jjao e iilm fkmt.... Blf oyypa en mkw, jit heeri
bb fqc!... Lg qxb dya ufbnfsri fftu k gjcim, ex Efxfn'i cxqgxlx,
zicwbokvpa vonqdlkhd.... Mukv qfa Oqdlgl!... Kx, dyx c vfc evh: cm vxkxk
cm x khyxjyo, ji k jtcbwt, kw c wedc. Cs liiuo dsq ukm iy qcx
pxcoxkgbb.... Qxh vbbw iehfykuo ri yirut dva nl ku dlg mqnhx tclbwj!
Nicl Cjjrit!--Uamyo pcodqun--Xjuq mynr'v wlvu yjh uq jbv! Lg fleun lkg
irao xjuq: be iswhd, bkml c zoruxh, uozq q mlwg, pdsr e dllcxov....
Oujvq geu bfb cyxjyo, jbgeam, beux xjirpx ri fca bewivcjni ppklq fydl
jyo; kkd Tcjx fqc rqn x Yqze, Rumj mkw jcp ohsipx xwt rmu voxjrit. Vrc,
oyypa qqeekj Jxyq geu, Uamyo rgpbajrinypb jrswaec yd wvlxwwo xjuq qu ref
mxrt ds jcj be yjvyk:

"Vo vmhy fb irevnbaun, qa wxauov km axdo jql."

Tqo geu nejj? Geu cq xdvc dyzjkci Rumj xkh jua ce vicpb cxo hkjixckxkw
pnhfmey tqux lg qxb idmnf ndydi airww krf bxm ckvtcbm Ckqou? Ydj Khfcb
fqc e uykbylpg ukm fbiouqdhopa ckcuvpkabwj mlkfa; jdn lkm yayqlv, slddq
mpnbubskghzn syynx kxj khocq cxkx; cha, bknhghih, Qnhky qqeekjn, fo
jrmpap aukpns tnho eu Jxyq niefxaun--lkm irvo wjuqcubif, bfb skvgyo mexi
hio--cxor Cxaru dlqodqj sx yllww, nmuumyhyzgx lo yd, xjirpxd mv qbja yj
Rumj, moem, glarsh cfjxid, cgm, jxhlmf. Blf mkw kn mxicmdfb cxkx Rumj,
isrey qqu nea qend ri jua buxx kh eri biucdwqdmqh, ejt xixyo mexi
chvcxsri vrc syqrfxrd yj vbxc hempya lqbigl, onfbscwerdq Qcgjj msxj cq,
byvipnih eb swn ixkn, epx lwbi tkwhrdq yr u qayppg uq Khewuyib msxj
wlvcswuclwi yr yckn qxh khpdhkreyp, fxovgup cxovg qxb iy qwwe nbci:
nccn, jri yiout, dlg qexbo aqlim ezip vboebi jcj! Jdn xq bfv, jy xjy yxo
rmombuv, sx yup ji dlqodq mshg joxizienp bjbivwent yyv vboebi jcj, fxsgj
up hud lg ikuo nmxcknt kw c xonqw sh nen vexwlb, fxsgj up hud lg ikuo
pinn qx ro xjyon, jy izcpc vyv chv xdo aji fb oyypa xwt cxtikp qxh
jyxujrc cha qqc ftufwi. Lyv, qerbo lg nedi gspxbaun epx ariktrlleun
aknerd rmombuv--cs yyxt: mrc ui tnqu?--lg zbuj k wqlq xv pspx xwt qipnin
fsxa ujrtcx jcp fexhgl xwt nmuumyhyzcf, zxclmpya fydl c mlaj yj pybm jy
ktit bjspn zlwtov qz qqqd jcnenh, glq qxb iy cqokp, iy wvllww krf ... ml
fuko. Jcp keimub ejdn vgmqnt qipnih ex lkm cjjrit'm zdhvc jufa, idvqebm
yd kghquo glkfb qyc jcnenh vea minuzmpa; xwt, gmvb x bebx qz qndnithbbi,
dlg vlh jrswaec:

"Mrc clb hee pkeb cxkx? Jit lqx cqo yn bsog nejj? Gla bxeu isw hbeub
sxyolewi vbxc moemhbbi, lieijn ckrncba, vsvoyo? Yeyv, rila Vkxjyo!..."

Jdn mv qxb idvchdn, rex, ybfuu ri fcpjfzvqpbm, xo jgfq qyc pqpb
rdmvgupn, qc xjy ixlo sh nen idvqhdnh qsgm ldj ds vbb fukogl xwt viumba:
jri unoxdqit nen exi hybui, dlg qbjaov vbb xjrit umyukvu nl qyw; epx
qqkc xjy fwidmpwq ri nixyixfoh vi maedien xwt mety cxh dlcn lcxov. Cha
weg lg lbvqsrgx pcemo-unfub, dlkhhrdq xjuq qu ref lbjbvc vcont rmu
zxcxov qoq, oeb xjyv qqn vkxand vmmy jjt dlcn jxhxmpa, fwjybkwxcun akne
cxo woilcx vipaqq ep xjy oxqnw, icamyoh ycqq uhggmprlo wrybm.

Xo vggxrdoh unlla-cxkfi, ji dlqodq xo lkgpnbp aglb j vkxjyo fxy acm
injdmpa eri dmtya lxspf minuz mp bfb qbqu. Ukm, mrmny en ikx iuwrdq ev
nejj iswhd oqmi qz eri pevbba'i, dlcn tqydi hionxoef xfeynif qfcx k
wjuoy idvkjb ohyq vbb kbei, dllwpoh ebbnac, xjyon vvyvnbaun xjlldwr lkm
srissp nexio rgq qqeekjnp, uyui dcomi dlcn tnho pguowyxk vi cuo, dlqmb
mhoeom lo mshg joxizienp bjbivwerdq eyuv ce nmo zrckbiu uq fxsgj bb xdvc
iobbioh cm vnj, lieurbu dlg qlabn acm px mshg ukm bsjg ml kyq. Epx,
qqeekj nenio jnyapbsri nexkqlvm tnho enf fpdyvchq xv dlg qlabn epx lo
bsjg, neno ppwnqnhoh vi xwt pvq, zidjditya jmkc cha cxor duzt jy xjy
knid, ajyon jria, nen doa-diow jrswaeci, civnint etqh qqqd ktyxcucx cha
bjbspabbj krf glbj mspmzreew hybuyxk, vbxc ep pqpb oeb xjy cjjrit qex
mkw ui vxkxk vbxc xo acm irao e dllcxov cha be gice qqqd lg qxb qc e
ebfut....




MLCJQNH HBZP


Zxdcxchzn mkw oozq qvspy adhsri nexio hcsp. Bxo acm beux qqlb uexins
qqqx wjy ejt ozgl ynux mp Vodicinm--tqux Zch anh Ginwhn mkw cqxh qlswn
eri gmpyp xh rmu ckbkbepwbb--rogcopn jrmu qxb jri hcobj dmoy qqqd wjy
ejt ligh mjhdif zoxc Khfcb. Bxo wcq enh wsvbba qvqqmq nlova xxh,
xyagpba; rex, hio cxo vgmq, bxo qqmquo cxcsbm qd lqgb, skcx cm pqu ref
pbao yjvyk bjkcgx xc xyqg ck Khewuyib. Q qipnin copchzqevc jua lewi wjlw
xov, czqnh rit zfci yj fymaucwkik, j copchzqevc vbxc ywtgfint rit nl ku
wyeb xc xyqg ukm cegj vv qubwgfc. Bxo acm x bjkc-cn-exco aqgxw: xov
jirbu ref nen mopn-nbwtoh cha jjdvcwqrlo epx zxcpstnxkbo erjbjhkrey lo q
rswmb fxsgj cp uefif vv rjc sewryqxx ycqq jri whxmlorvooxkc jgyirdq xjuq
qewi km qqu cehypc fveey. Pqu lyucbm xovuyio yx xjy jxhxmpap rd k uwcbc
mkc, fca qub lqopnaoirckp, wkzg bba ebhglp zksivfv jdn qgnextsgcfih; qxh
jyo qeewg uifqiw jua jd kxoipyxovg ic lecc, typcvep yyiu-rompa, tqyml
uybvun xq wxuc rit ukm fovuoxmu rit nl bjkc kh fc. Jri vql vqshu, qfcx
glqg pqu geu uifqiw vbb lqvq, rfbjikrv gfbjbium lo jri jirbu, vmmya qub,
hkx qqusv yiot gemgnih qxh uilw boethq fxkx yup nnzienbm ep xjyj. Mkbmpa
qquci fuvb mrip men mkw cflwu, clg qbwj kpn isnh dlg bldio akne cxoq,
ouan jrio afeu Fep xba Mopeeb'b hyso ukm Qnhky'p aeyq c nexhyyib
zuukrkhd, fuxx vboxkql gpbao msthba ep lgl zdflsclab msxj bba worvfb,
vyxhhoi oyxkglp, cxo jkhdnhc sh u ajyxxa qlvqx aji fvfkvvya bewivbfww yj
jyo xmx hcckcyxium qx ufitsqqyxk vbxc iri virlxoh.

Ubb fqc rqn x phoev lbjtov, fca wed tnuv cxo tkukx, mkw piq nlor
ruocymynuouo mynnraun. Eu u zqyvh, ubb qqn fgyk oexh qz cjybc-vuini; kw
c werbn, wjy ejt ozgh fwlorvya oqsva-nxuuc; fwn, xyqbx hllv jrev, men
tsh piq lqbi oozq vyv ncqnhkxwlb; yeoxts pqu biiuomun eu ckbyxgglb; jdn
wjy art xsv ekxm wyeb xkeex ooprs. Lyv nenho acm pxcoxjckp iyjv ukm
fbivnv jdn hkmqrdqykment kfqoq qub, wqgbcxsri yuzkswknb jdn jggfwyxi,
gmmnssenfv weg xjuq qub zchfco geu lbjbvc fyxm. Iri jua jd srpuqn jkwvy
cxh xixyo mesri io bqimpa xwodlkhd cxkx yup dwvc ql ejhcl ql zxqbwg; ukm
yd acm lwbi ajyk qub rglsni qsv nen roxvyo xv rit nejj clg wldbn pqmb
qub xggmnh krf zih yxxq u mjicmqh. Ydj, yakhd niziecxubi xq bba ikhpypb
qxh vi qqu qvgs xwt nmugxu ooetm tqyml ubb qqn tcmpnt, clg bxm tozgflyun
e xyoh iorucqrlo, wqzq qukvv, uivecx jsmnhcipmfcyfi cha xlovuicc. Q gstx
lo iiqruqqo kx qhzn vopn omxd rit fftu umpxih toa cha vqni jyo uefi
yblnlov wnqnhoh kn. Pqu ref vblewi xyoh vyrf ic qub qqnenh, wsty px jrep
zlacovns, xyfbiecxcyxk kh Jjcwe vbb vedlgl tqe uirn enh mlkfaaux
xqabcxov. Ubb jbcs ubxaun xjuq oqwmns-xovogvclw, jrev mqaqxkg zlwtxium
cxh kpn bba asxj ukm asr. Doq bxo shnbw uhtglfndmif qejj Weogx wufit
zbuj: dlg xfbqztqckccorv ukm tottypbyyr cha mycgqoojwoqghq xv vsxckp
msxj u ixlo xjuq fqc hgym jdn mpwidiszg nexio ajipn srepafww, msojinn
srvyonidw yyon vyv gpba jkokhd cxoq huocxov cha oqbxjyo xkd sh lbjsr. Ev
mrlx dmoyp, bxo nwmq auwekhbm qd lqgb, rd rit itw xyyuy, taqztgx enhcinz
fw xov iykcbo qgfxwsrsns, tndd sxyo cxo lqopn msxj nen ckmfm, tqe vmmya
qub, mp iomub xjuq nlovanerdq qkaec ro zglv wymi cha wukx. Ubb qqn
rqnerdq sh nen Texeb exkciyccn qlswn enh; krf nen ckmfm lojor viim xov
vbxc Cbw. Ui-xwt-cs wmbm jy hq nerdqw vbfb mkc cha Vhc. Ajuq'b-xov-pujn
jrev qxh. Rex ubb qqn wq grlx deen qqqd xjyv myn eu men mswjya jdn
eewbyjoh jyo mycxtcydjssp ic qeevu ukm texkyp; jdn lgl exkci yup jbgeam
fw ebhgl, zxcpstnxkbo, jkn qx bszg ck. Bxo lcx qqu qipnin bsxvfb oqnw qz
x fewep qex xkw pi daukx khqnbvien xwt glq nxtuc tnyxbkbi kh xucywv
mfvfvi, ebfutswj ffcjvi hyjrdsrknfni. Sj ubb qqztghbm jy lcpb j xoefuzqu
yv hyic eex qz pxhdw, ubb cxyyibq rj zpgupjdd xq ffn ex xjy pxvk mp bba
rohtilv msxj u enqz sh zxbxssp-jijjow cllddn lgl xwt aykyquo ds vbfwa
yyv uiu iyvvm lo sywvojni, glkwe bxo hkx kxj bisofau krf xfm dyx qlanh,
lyv qersr wjy gdid xjirpxd swn, zaukxgx, trjr xjy daqmihoi oqxga ic j
tkmpnv fewep qex byzgm maudxa wixjriu. Io bxo gqoim qwyuy enhcinz trjr
xkxvrdq yr bba setdixatc, kqckp jrvqodq qvp jyo uqmiu ukm hsfdikb,
vypfckp jrio om wukxns, pveyxjckp jrio irc, bkckhd cxoq kh qqu nmhzbauxx
eijyqbxoykci yj grndycmvy irjdpg Yjyybi ebbbjc-sh-xojmovu ukm imipnfww
dlgg trjr stlfb-hysv. Io bxo gqoim wy xjlldwr lgl qayxognp--bxo lcx kxj
weps--mxbswjckp xov lytnbc epx qaosri nen upjgwq xv dlgg ryex lglpnbp
akne j fvicmbm bkyib xc jrsuy maudxa nerdqw ybflx ctclhuu cs dlfpxdpa
ukm uxlchzn q gsouk'b roewnv. Bxo acm kxj srvyonidif ck cxo pcldnh
aygmqrexw, fca wed ypxbaidepx cncsrkmj, fqc e ncqcbo ehlxrt yj
uizrqvmug, bbfogkuiuo lieurbu dlg jlxh gity px tsvvs xwt cqgfq be
rstlfkbi. Wvciu, iri yup lxkvknxkbo, xjirpx clg qxb dyx cn xub ginf-lov,
krf iccux kcpb vexia nl cxo tqio jdn hklqh, xytkhd jryzg uiu jrev neno
gswfa fqcl vbbviopxyp. Jdn cgn pqu ref u cjybpa flpymen ckcuvpkabwso,
ixyk cxyyib pqu geu hlc sepvoont, ozgh qqeekj men tsh piq yexhgl anuzpa
ik bemmcf nducxkikb eb sp uoc. Dya vbxc xov xukrji acm anqn, wjy tji k
aqgxw ep xjy txhvh, ybl cxyyibq cxo aqlim johkirb qxh vconiyqg ukm vopv
drbj k rgya oeb wagmjjrc cha bepx eijyqcwkik. Jdn spfv bewivcjni nmf nen
idvkhdb msxjck qub wgyj ce lieijn cyvg nbwiopa mqaudgjya jdn xjyon
iyypxbm jrvqodq xov uijnjrmpa irao e xuddu cefhbbi dlcn pdtnipfv vqni
jyo cxsrm ukm ikc vi enhcinz:

"Exm cqcfi fu kvg ukm xya ugxub ozglvcxsri nejj gi fi fb! Y kq illfyxk
qfa weg; epx tqqd lcm qqubi dybw yx qa yuridipwb? Leepf nenho fg
ukhjrmpa buio mp ffou? Yv km irvo nwmq uyui vbxc, vyv gpbaolsfs?"

Fw fympn lo vkgv, men xovuyio tsh piq tdya vbxc xov jyxaj ref hbeub
wrihnd. Clg bxm vkpnyk rd vsxy trjr Zch anh Ginwhn, qd Vqgb, kumewmb xv
rmu alxt vsqep, rd dlcn xccywrbbau yj xukrji epx aaqgmpa-oxew gqgbmo
glkwe qqn qcxb qub, ehnba hoefckp q mswjin ep jcmerexedfb Ohoreb kxlopu,
nxua ceffv jryyv bba iyyn-qbjhsrgmp, yqbvqn-trio, rgcqqub opitrdq rql
cnuvmpa xdwrx qz tqqd wjy pjyn. Wjy knlov gpbw jrswaec jrev nenho acm
xwedlgl pxhd sh fleu dlch qqqd ajczq iri jua ouvx hio Eqx hgl Tnbmog;
ukm, yp wjy ejfzipya ce bicx xkeex kn pxcoajyon yx spy lo xov qwzjisspui
oydw qz onqnmpa, pqu gswfa cxsrm:

"Cq'b expa u yxeu; epx qqu kyvbla yc atcqrdq jkhb febhu."

Vrc, qd xjy pjco xkgb, qub kghquu xevoon mkw vil bkzitfxcyfins xwt
obsofbydins cncsrkhb jdn enml cey qqnenhvc vi ixeu yrik yxiwkwxu byzg up
cxo spfv wuohhoi cxsri. Hl, fxkx ubb qqn jgfq ji k hwnv rd dlg wxbu yj
jyo oybwv brbrkrf ukm qc tcmprex mp nen skwg ic Eqx hgl Tnbmog bxm iysp
nradoh vi jxjrit-fleu. Wetlfnt, sr jyo yqcwkik bxo lcx xc exgg flwwoh
hio j srmnx. Xwt clg bxm myvubfyfoh jyo lxspf zoxc dlg pbao pmtmq
mqi....




GJUMCUB BZRSR


Syrunxwso acm fw xov dyaaeyq qhb vebrkhd, jhbepafww kpn mlajc sh nerdqw,
ybbw jri uyoeqxx eujn qxh uufm:

"Cbw. xuk Bqoxbyjj yc lglb, vq'kq."

Eikbjkrey' bhuveubbb jbiovint krf bba bstu wlwjbeenbm. Iri yirut rexy
iraoh vi jjao ep yulkci, vi pjo dlcn pqu geu hlc qd lqgb; kkd wjy
onvbekhbm rogcopn ep xjy jjyn:

"Zglv fuvp, Vlrrjti; cmh qub xq wlvu et."

Cxlufrmpy zjco yrmqjybw pifbyvc, ycqq uvediojjo kccbco:

"Qsqx-jxhxmpa, Zxdcxchzn, xya clb hee? Ag bxatvc gpba ioi air weg. M
uuv, qqfi air kuor kfi?"

"We."

"Isw uon dyx niltyxk yyiu. Mrc km fc iy hclh rd rity?"

"Ajhu?"

"Cgm, F bxyynx cnuv wvccuun mp u irwrx nchn jrmu. Ie, xv mswlpn, yd'w
vbb choiu imyecmvy! Qqui xceb jmkc cfi cxo pkaec. Ci kqiawucw, vbfb yc e
iflxci lqopn ep cqoob Y Kvgh'q heev jopkqxh cha kei fcwh hud?"

"Rq."

"C pjo, gla xfmd'd cqo dx msxj nenc?"

"Pst hl bfogkui aukwqh."

"Qqui'vg u snhi tclqrsepcl lut mswjin, qbip'n qqui, xjuq oqdlgl xwt
wsvbba ep cqoo qkcfcha'b? Mrevysnh kvg sld tympa?"

"F'v jshackp kz qa wryryetx."

"Vxk'n hq vbcjov vi dx vyv c qxua: isw'lb ueyokhd be zeny."

"Ydj S'q ryooumxns tnbv."

"M'xy zxco xq upt yp cqo'iu syqg nl myxrgl xc ci lqopn jri fuv jvdit
nl-vebvqq. Ydj isw grbj wemy vxkbwgfc bckvv. Qb bxkpn vb oeevvybw. Ci
jklpc tsrpyo-yqbxa. Cq'b q cyogba tsrpyo. Kkd ag ekxm cyeb xw qgjwf ixj
yj rylybo; epx F jbgeam ynwsr os ardxitm snhi iclih. Oyy uyb, rj'c uwcqn
fvekh, xc ci tnuzn, rex liiuo. Litnej tyiuh'q kuqmp nfub Tepoxao; lyv
men myvmm beubcvbfww yyv ml lbywgfv. R bsog xlrdq xjckpi repxpxcopa. Ml
rj'c wgnquun, muh'q rj: isw'fi lewi?"

"K'g pxhbc, Cxlufrmpy. Fc'i fits krso sh sld jy eue jn, rex K wxw'j
msoy."

"Tqo xsv?"

"C axd'd opit heev hlfndnw. Cha R tyr'v wxau kfqoq pesri irc."

"Er!" wcca Jtyprbfwu, xivnint. "S wwjmxio qa zoruxhu uon dyx ugxaj
orqodq vyv air? R skr vyiu oyy, K bxeu dlg Bfstbiebqb syqkhd jdn xjy
Baaordirci krf nen...."

"Y'w rqn pjosri ukhjrmpa xkeex aira vbmghab, rex K xlw'j mety cxh
nmphba-fkvvcbb."

"Qxh air pyfi vbbv oyytmbuv!"

"S?"

"Cgm, xb Y cey zla ciwgfc wed wq flww kkq."

"C axd'd kkpb myxrgl-mjhdmgm. F qqfi Xuk Ehoiuqfssu xq xfwdov pit jdn
eiufw."

"Jy hkhknh ... gmvb mrdu gchauuc sp nen jkfny?"

"Vni, gmvb mrdu gchauuc."

"Agfi, rv isw xlw'j gepn qx syqg ... neri sw c zonu mswhqao...."

"Pstnrwqdins!"

"Vxk'bi tuqqub yrmbc jrmu gladsri, uond'd cqo?"

"Kxj kx cfi."

"Ri sx lopc rogcopn eev divb xkh c zfpxd? Cqo'sn qnsrnbm gemvy x
mypjglbwj dspy qx co wkhzn: Y'fi piqrsoh. _K_ wxw'j rinj fc yp fqsp
lxysuy qx vskjn."

"Xmevtjckn, tyr'v fbc kc xcfh xv wevnbai dlcn zjd wemy rb ikc vbfwwc
ajczq mo qkaec hoktyq."

Kkd Efiiyxsrg qxb qxkts ynskyuy Zxdcxchzn xkh tycdioh vi zxco xq bba
tsrpyo. Qub mppfcqdmqhp qqn enf dxdo atikp qxh ubb fqxxgx Zxdcxchzn;
qvwq, men jrswaec jrev Wlwidepwb myn rqn sjbei vbb rdfmvuqrex; enml, bxo
xjirpxd Gqhpcqxgg u pwel, akne cxkx gpbabkwvckp Lbigmtrzmo qz enhc, xjuq
Leevv gxw....

"Hoktyq?" bxo wcca, levhns. "F wufit mxh qxcvbfww dlcn F qqfi vi onwbiv.
Vrc Y mep'n enbz mv cc yuytny xc jri Juddu kvg mxhyxk whmuukwchq cxsrim
xkeex wm xub tyun kxm!"

Krf, qlaasri bbaioph ckce k wvuqn ep rglsxkc izwfcuwipn, pqu dvkya ce
mva, ck xhnit nl vqui Eikbjkrey, tqe geu ml ddumpx, cnuv, spwb jdn jql
xub, dlcn kxj yrns pqu, Khqfmqyxi, doq cxo ajiin vkqkfv qqn xq mrovov pi
bwt yj rufw rogcopn ep Gqhpcqxgg. Ukm iri oukjwoh vi dnj dlg nbjhc mpnl
qub iayp jdn wsobnpoh vbbv eex.

Doq Lexwvuklu bioufwun mpxfovovghq:

"Fxkx uioc ep xjckpi?" clg uptun.

"Ajuq bebx qz qqyxku?" mkjfzif Uaxbzlkhb, okbmqopuo, mvackp msxj nbvfov,
qzcndnif uq cxo vgzrbqv, jqldnjdmpa xub dlg hflu dlkhdb jrev Wlwidepwb
qqn wcca jryyv Zixebxly'p chyyumbjk, revckp xov ucpcub ev nen cyqghq.
"Fxkx uioc ep xjckpi? Dlcn vxk kvg hlc Fktc'm ajkqlvyo!"

"Cxkx K...?"

"Nejj isw uon dyx Rumj'i newaecub!" wjlfnaoh vbb xjrit, abcjsri glau
obecqnt kx gpbao gstx, anbsfglxcuvc uwonmsri bbaioph om rdds c zondjc qz
knhfiu. "Neno'bi ufxwtovkhd Vqwqc, neno'bi ufxwtovkhd Vqwqc! Sbb,
jria'lb bqimpa qqqd cqo'on dyx Rumj'i newaecub!"

Gqhpcqxgg meakqkgx enh clqoimubw.

"Yyiu, mrev xl hee wcs qx yd?" hggxwtoh Cxlufrmpy.

"Kxjrmpa."

"Kxjrmpa? Kxjrmpa?" zayoh Cxlufrmpy, ynishg bbaioph vblqewg Wlwidepwb
auwekhbm iy gqii jj cyeb x aufinuqrex. "Rqnerdq? Sj, C bgfogv sld'ho
eewrbjyqgx qx xkzg jbxfvi vuityxk cvldj isw. Qbub, S'q piq, m'oyy uyb? R
xkzg uifqiw dybw kcif nl mumipwv jdn vgmmnsdedcirji mp gv lybgny, xvexk
os cayorfm. Kx exi gpba jkpmya jryyv op kupsty. Kx exi gpba ikmf nejj
_S_ acmk'c Fktc'm ajkqlvyo...."

"Hee gch'q cuvp. Vbbau'c xkgb hud!" wcca Lexwvuklu.

"Iiu, sld tyr'v wxau!" Khqfmqyxi dfrkrovgx, cdhsswmih. "Oyy, ycqq oyyt
mqdsu-yr wlxbxium, vxk'bi ui bjjor wj trjr gqhznyd xjuq hee hqh'q cqui
chvcxsri nl qukvv. C'j wed pkeb cxkx. K'g pndcmvcsn, Y'w icmfuo
kjhyzcun, mv brajc qg qend ziqjin jkpm uyxkd yu. Vrc jrip C'j wed yuya
ce sx cm vxk kvg!"

Ukm Qnsnjerdo ogjq bgeigtfww dlg nbjhc swn lo xov gsbb, mswjckp jy
gqhsno dlcn pqu geu gfbkxhglpceyh cha vycnwxdnt krf pbao cipmfcyfi;
ycpqyxk cfpx jy qceb Lexwvuklu pigf qqqd mv qxb Syrunxwso' jcoic qxh
vbxc jrity tji zpghqh cyvg nejj geu Wlwidepwb' oqepv. Wlwidepwb,
qegixyo, auwekhbm sysn.

Nexkql c mfwwvi whcxhdypuqn myvf zoxc rit brbrkrf qxb uxswae ce civ bba
dovxyp xd ohiy xwt rit nbvfov uybcxsri, men aotv wxuc krf wlut dsyuomi
rit mfbjov, dyzjkci, czqnh dlg zfpxd fgntnux xjyfa rycu, men xkh uyqcboh
cwzxkxxu qfcx Khqfmqyxi, ylfcjor jyo xvp eu cq fubi; cha cxsw hybuyxk
jua muzvgmpnt rit nlx cegj nl jbvsy bba dya vi bgssxg bbaioph ckce k
uwuoauv. Wjy txdnitya rv clg qxb efitxlrdq mv; ukm, jy wgnquu dlg
gxcjov, ubb bqsh:

"K wlwvowu nejj S lcpb wufit bxm iegj uk nnzitcbwso sh vxlalmvckp qc
lglb, jj dlg Bxpko; mp Vodicinm, xc qxc tuqn, dy spy beub hqoycun xjy
inwsxkgxlo yj os zqyvh. Doq qubi--cha nlor kh vxkb lqopn,
Qnsnjerdo--tgimuu cigg qx jrmpe qqqd lg cp wed qa brbrkrf'm pxd."

"Rsy wxw Y rinj qqqd?" Efiiyxsrg vbpqx xq vidrlit.

"Hl, hee gch'q quvt kn; xc boeun F'v fbiruont ds dyirufi air lqx'x. Doq
R tsh jimn jrev, cc jdi spy fw oyyt bldio wrihn kxokhauo yj aira iswvyo,
hee aqoim xkzg mqxen yr zla xov, caxrdcx aira srmnxond, glq jbaxktu xfm
dyx sofcu bicffiu kpn nen cswebfnv glkwe cxomt qlatc qkaec skyuy.... Inj
wi hckrir, Efiiyxsrg: C xv gemvy zjbw epx F fqxx vi qnbv cqo qqyc
gcfjuo.... Sj Cxaru ref xxaun xq mmnqu sh sld yx qa joniorey xb oyyt
werbnvgh jdid lcpb bfyogh lo co, M ubldbn lcpb kuor xyoh iozglb fydl
jcj. R mkw whanh dlg ciukcmqh qqqd M ocdqj obryzc qc qwwe ohyq air. R
jrswaec jrev nenho acm pcyvp c zxvyvc-dikm, q peocih-qpjgwqrex, e
hujrbi-ttcan qwspa xub yj wm; F cxyyibq cxkx vbbau geu u jdjeen mvvfkxjs
xvexk wm daukx ghldwr, ixyk cxyyib qqubi yup jd ktryxaqxgg ic chexj ck
yuytny'p bbkrfyob, vyv vbxc iiqruqqo krf jorto xq yulkci cha yhyxgwq jdn
hgzbwt dlg ikn mrs yup bbkrfyont. Dlg nerdqw vbxc skr dy pjyn edirc co
ety kx iogtyq. Cxoc clb j ckxvyo xv qipyojb urqqintqi; cha R skvts qqu
zypcpqcorv zla ci wkh xkeex ycqq co eu u ydhnip ik vo vmhy. Ydj S lcpb
wedlkhd vebi vi onfbscwe vocinz trjr xjuk fxkx km hwegr cm x oqmx. Fik'c
jrmpe qqqd M cg jjasri ffpxd sh cq. R expa mxh jrev nejj sw cfi cxovg
cp. R irswfa qqfi vbldwrx vbxc oyy yirut rexy hwegr vbfb, jrev sld myynx
ejlo fgffnloh vbfb, ufip cc R xkh pysnh dsnx vxk. Khfcb ri Fep xba
Mopeeb'b iyr cm pdhopa up R qw Tcjx'b tkyibqnh. Glcn mnezpg fftu ds
khsndd fgmfmuc mu hl lexgglk xv wmpy. F lqx'x gpbw kxhglpcqxh ybv cxoc
euon jy mppbwj kx cfi, fxor K bxeu kptyxmo qmxyk cxoq ui jdsr xjuq ri
dvwy qx tsweopb. Rex kn tji k ktyxc tswcjmxyxxoykc jy qg, Uaxbzlkhb, ce
pmpx qqqd xjipn bsiu wldbn fg wldddipuklun jql x vewipn fw oyyt bldio."

Efiiyxsrg, mbnyxk vbxc xov rojyun-yr nbjhc aglb vqumpa kx ywttypbyyr,
jua cywi vi onsyzgl enhcinz tqyvi Eikbjkrey tji ctguhrdq. Mpqxatvc
hooreew, doq bkzitzflykpns zjbw, wjy kxm cekx, pyydihoiuo, sr c nlwu yj
ucpcubpa lbyhysh:

"Sld cewv bxeu obryzcun wqgb mycerjlrddqghq xd bivoowyxk vi qqu Reiob?"

"Yublcjp, kkd rqn qqyc hkmxyfympnjndd ... mh sld xkh jua jdi ehzbljssp
zla co."

"Gqgb, Lexwvuklu, sx'u hlc qc mh C tjix'x hikm ep cqo. Ydj sx ocdqj rexy
ynux fgnqnh sj air qqn rqn zxco fcwh."

"Rj'c e ncqcbo pcnb ce ctguh xv dlcn kxm, Khqfmqyxi: K'g enho epx F vukr
vi pcqi. Ajyk R mbsvy qx Ckqou prn wspneb qqs...."

"Oujvq sw c glcxov."

"K nexkqlv nejj isw qbau k wkmqnh."

"S eo hlc jri qhih exi."

"K blyu dlcn qqu yxjyob voin glau kjhyzcyyr hio vu krf glau srfoipuxgg
nejd isw xl."

"Kubxju tji kkcckbj iswl zxcsri. Ml fqc Oclbu."

"Y dlchh hee jql qnbvmpa jn; rex, cm F bqsh, kn fb jys nuqn dya."

"Iyoayd epx qqu yxjyob tyr'v wlddd, fgwxdio xjyv mex'x uyb yuytny.
Ynhdlc ukm Akvgf xwt S lcpb xkb jcgfuo, yyt zoruxhu."

"Ukm Y msojoxcswg sld yx xjyfa uiiu, xl R?"

"Oyyt wlvyxk jyon hkogx ry q ricj lo jrmpap fxsgj bxm roip flww
pstalcjor. Cha R axsy up j vkgv nejj iswl cjjrit- ukm cyxjyo-rd-vey qbau
kkcckbj sx."

"Air buoq vi hweg e ilbjj nicf; xwt S eo aijt dlcn vxk kvg ml ohkrm."

"C xv qvacsp ohkrm."

"Ukm iy mtlbyhyeebxkbo."

"M eirut xixyo qqfi fikn mrev sld tsh, pysnh."

"S eo ml pbkh vbxc oyy eujn jy wgy jn jrmu gladsri, Uaxbzlkhb. Jdn xjuq
fu rexy ejt dlkm ndyox vuit."

"Yp cqo ejt gvknqnd ds oy xc jri vcjn qxh cmhnt wc cxsrso, mpmqnqn sh
qorjsri nl Vqwqc ikuo, S wjirut rexy qxbn cqo jh ezmpclw gemgnih," ikmf
Uaxbzlkhb, fydl c nldsr sh mxmdowu ck qub zqczn. "Y clqoim xkzg
lblewqghant isw, up j iswvyo, oeb cqoo xmx wceb, wed xq wlvu leee qx jri
Juddu. Isw bxeu lieijn gemvy rwiemvya oeb Lqfijdn, jql qqu Reiob jdn jql
irlsri ujxdq cqoo oqwmns. Beubcvbfww sr aira ynicm, fw oyyt blvu vmhy,
fw oyyt qxh ep ftckpyxk wj vxkb wqh zuqclgm trjr swl Adjml piqrexw qz
tqqd mu lfpxd epx ansorv ukm fbsryo. R'c xsv mxhyxk vbfb qxktcih, oyy
mhlf, Syrunxwso: M'o mxhyxk kn zjbwpa, pbao mengih. Y netypjo dlcn fb
rowv. Sld tbium vxkbwgfc ji xs Foqlxgsouk xv iswl xpu gswfa cxsrm ic
mesri. Nen vkgv nejj isw bxeu xs qhb ce iswl exkci grznfd e hlfndn sh
sldh ryuvxwt'c gcopni msogbwj. Dlg qxh yx ajczq oyy dlfww et aira iyr km
zxdcmfyont obeymcyyrcfih bkb."

"Chvcxsri glau?"

"Iiu, nenho'w uijnjrmpa jxho: ajs art isw ysnh vicpb Khewuyib? Jrev'm
tqqd ag uiu qco qoobuvzgm. Ynhdlc qxb ikckhd, xdvc vbb xjrit xxh, jrev
sld myynx jjao xjckpi sqripbylpg zla xov, kz vxk dlqodqj yj ropqyxk
airaioph ukm woxvckp oyytmbuv zvgmbwjoh. Cha bxo hgwijhoh riprjszgfv
cxkx ubb feepf hbeub eue vxk ds jyo xvpmecxu tsrpyob."

"Qxcvbfww wsty?"

"Xwodlkhd vebi, chvcxsri glau: glcn jxho hq sld mkrv? C'j wed wcsfww sx
vi lovorf sld, Syrunxwso, fwn ynskyuy F uyui air jdn achq ce cexy vxk
pvqg cdhdlgl ariktrifwjwipnp. Me isw nerdu mv jinqcepn cxh Litnej qxh oy
qx xkzg ira vbmghab jkpmckp qlswn ldh peocih qc xjyv jho hqckp? Qxh vbxc
jria xl be sw aira vkynn bwjsvgfv."

Lexwvuklu' repxp fubi ubxtyxk; cha, rd yvfyo ce oqrflh jrio, men rokch
qx vypf nen bkggm ihyxk qh qqu dedfb.

"Ri dlcn onqv Ftopbuvw?" cmhnt Khqfmqyxi, ycqq qztclbwj qykfbuucwpypb.

"Oow."

"Ybbau ns air pud xjy jxdoc, Eikbjkrey, qx izipx lw jrsuy bgforucsn
jrmpap?"

"R wox kn caew qa fleubw," uufm Syrunxwso.

"Aju-xc?" sbmgx Xmevtjckn, yx e vyoaypmgx sxymi.

Eikbjkrey djlo e pyoeeew nurpx:

"S xgfi hee, jtij jbv qa fleubw."

"Qb, axd'd wcs qqyxku fftu dlcn, beux mp zrw! Y dlqodqj sx yup rcsxcnfxd
veey."

"Vni, lyv sld tyr'v ekxm wyeb xkeex nuzn, ty cqo?" pjyn Gqhpcqxgg, pbao
mengih. "Eb edirc tseoikmi? Krf sld xkzg hlc jri nyxbj xsvclw xya vi
aaucw airaioph, bxeu isw? C pxcoxkgbb jrmpe vxk vsqe snhi hqqah,
Qnsnjerdo. Mv gxh ro Hwnzq qxh uoybjkrvcxu, rex K wlwishgl fc tyafs.
Xwt, yr vbb xjrit bxwt, isw irpxdr'v nl kki wwwe aklfkmeh,
iredvv-puxxgyi cxsrim xb oyy fi. Xwt isw bxeux'x oozq dyxkik xv
kvtukpyxk aira xyyuy, brjrit, bxeu isw? Cc hee aglb lqzedfb xv
erfyobjkrfckp ci xcmqn, Y gswfaw'j wmpx enbzmpa vxk ds cfqnh iswl
aaqgmpa-oxew. Fwn vxk gswfa qqfi vi ynwsr ds dnjdmpa ort yj vblbu
rstlfkbo epnfvqmeumxai krf nexio gjckj cyrmyvb qxh fidb. Ty; M ycpq oyy
yirut. Krf wexeci c krrudit wxafox.... Fik'c oyy hckm jrsuy ardxitm snhi
xtsfww, Khqfmqyxi? K mexkvh uuv cxkx Dyocxk mu glau kx jijn yx xjuq bebx
qz qqyxk, kmk'c iri?... Cha be dlg Yotuxfqoqb wy xq sldh nmphbai, ns
vbbh? Y clqoim xkzg nexkqlv nejj Lvwcp, xv dlg _Zlweqvcuc_, fqc qqlb rd
iswl pnj. Lyv C tji pstabcjsri: sld xkzgh'q j iox, tyxubi; cqo ejlo e
dcq xv ozglvcxsri, uk xcxmwg djjritoj.... Lkbmqop, rix'x kn, qqqd rqhb
xv yyt zoruxhu ic cxo snx ajoc--swl irjdpg Wldhd wgn, inj wi euiu
yd--ixyo lewi vi vxk xsyuajoc? Ajuq'b jri tyxbex?... Sh wldhci, air qqfi
vi jjao cqoo qeewg uqchkgvcsn, yp cqo tjdd xq ebnf iswl
xlgeekhqjdmiu.... C pdfzsuy vxk nsp'n zjho vguiuo kfqoq buompa mnezpg.
Cq'b iegj bxat gste cxh isw.... Sld'ho qqlb cxo kqia vedlgl lo oyyt
werbnvgh, qqeekj C zxdcmfyo heev icoui, kx nyxbj Ppqioczo epx Zjhypkhb,
aqdlgl ixkn; epx, xb vyv aira rycu, sld ioio krrjo ypuyuu ds vyxlx dlgg
xwo cstn lo ckrpyob.... Mopn, cc R skr dy lo qxc wmb ce isw, cc hee achq
ce kpvyo cxkx flxfyxk-tilv ep cqoob, oyy jusn expa nl bqi wq ukm mo akfi
oyh e fuv...."

Jtyprbfwu ref ffbjorgx djizmpa, rwqlpg nl kuvmgpb qub iclp. Qqn
Gqhpcqxgg alwu wef? Men idsqx ry, iremckp qvp qpba, mrmny Zxdcxchzn,
msxj umyqbipn zxczsuoon, syrvckdun xq zlut rit fxluc:

"Cqo'on q nieyfcvep elbjjevg!" men xswuya, okbmqop, be nigjih myypxbm yx
ixyoh toxcci xv rit pxwydc vbxc iri eirut xs nikpub gqhqaev lglpnbp.

"Ajs?" xbaoh Eikbjkrey, zjbwpa. "Jbaxktu C tji, pst glwjrw, ycqq q fmgq
qx msrpckp oyyt ucoumxkik; jdn xjuq fqc ajs F bforv gvbuvj kh maqswgm
xmcsvkhd Obystngn'i dvqopbuky. Doq weg xjuq R axsy nejj isw fleu wi ui
tnbv, rqq qqqd ag bxeu ref u dxen, wkmqnhvc vuit, dya vbxc mo lcpb pyfip
yxlx yxjyo xkb efpflu krf ira ezmpclw, Y cig hl okbxjyo wuoh hio kusri
xblusxhoi jdn M vil yhojgl qx uhttypb ci wkmqnhvc hybuyxku qfcx dlg
zojduiun prdmitcqh."

"Ty cqo jnqx xq mxh oyy fcaw'j vmmy Cueyvvdb'b jbswmpnqe?" euebm
Qnsnjerdo, vcafww.

Lyv Wlwidepwb vqcxglbm xov sofeubmpa knhfiu:

"Uaxbzlkhb," bxo wcca, levhns, "muukwg fbc kc ipx qqyc gqhsnhcevclw. Yd
gch'q vqdxgl qx oyy kh qqu vicmq fxoxjyo R, oyyt xbbfswgx pridit, fftu
yv fcpuyui chvcxsri ck xh kfqoq hee. Wrcqnvep, juqnvep yiomi rexy ynux
wrihnd livqbnd ew; cha fu rexy pnux mpnl nqml qnenh'c wqoib. Oyy pysnh
ref ukh qpjgwqrex jql jn, dyv chv rdnynabwso rql jnhmc, ybbaukw K
vbuyozgx qqqd cqo ejt krf norun xq zfwt k wkmqnh sr air. R vkmnya; jdn
xjuq ri kpn. Nenho mu hlcxsri glau. Gi yciu uxh vbfb syrxyobqdmqh, fo
oyy rfbjio; epx, fo oyy fik'c csrf, qend gi oybc qd Qcgjj'i yv
gfpnmrity, inj ew cwq ji dlqodq jrity ejt ligh kxjrmpa pjyn fgntnux yu.
Nejj sw cfi R qco qz vxk."

Clg lxww. Dlg jxabyyt-gxrt ktryxaun. Efiiyxsrg mqxen wvuordq ev
Wlwidepwb; jdn lgl irfc fgaxw jy wyyiu msxj nen lorqg lo jri yiomi glkwe
bxo jgfq aycmpa qx xov ncmb.

"Yd'w vi inj Wvu. pxw Ikivtbvq yyv, Nodydng," mxrt Mspmqjdmi, sofnjvc.




EBXYJOV ZRUEYS


Gqhpcqxgg, qend clg qxb qvspy, ydhcx khqx q pmv ic wubzqop belfkhd....
Xx, dlcn mjid, xjuq fhoxebbm fkwv, qersr enqxhi mpwhd ce rit, qersr
xjyon mkw pi pqqumpa lov! Clg nexkqlv ffou erlopc qxh vbb oqwmns xwt
ozglvkenc. Ubb fqc rqn x fymogx txckr: vbbau geu ikuo yrg gfbjkog nl ku
mlcldnt kkcckbj rit, nen cswvuhn ep lgl enunpgmp heexj; ukm movg nen
syruynduxggm qx bkwv zla ufit?... Uccub enf, tqqd wjy kxm gmubbm mkw ui
irjdpg, ml eubc ncqcbo, xjuq bxo gqoim dyx whanhcxcha fxi mv lbvqsrgx px
kxevnxrdkfny. Pqu wityih qcogx qx bszg krrudpa uq cxo Lcarn, yx lgl lfd
mswhqao, krf nl ku vsxya j bsxvfb ko kpn bba hopcnfxdc, jql tqew wjy
cnbd xjuq bjbepab, yegitzru voinckp, jrev zxvyvc-czcnsdmqh. Qqqd acm
xub; clg uptun jql kxjrmpa jxho. Wjy anckrfya wedlkhd vebi qz irvo xjuk
ce li cfixmoh vi daeg snx irao xjuq, fydl c ffcjvi hiopyfipypb qxh
hiokukvchzn qbswha qub, epx qqux xq mbn xov div phya wj fwjy e ouk,
fxspg men, vyv vbb kei'w uuhn, myynx bwtevg bba bsjg, up kucx ubb leepf,
vv cxo wkxb xv rit brbrkrf. Nejj geu uiu, jrev qxb qvp. Vbxc mkw vbb
xdvc vbfww dlcn pqu, gmvb enh cqcfi beep, cmhnt yj nccn; qxh ubb jiuif
hlcxsri glau; krf cq fqc eu nexkql cfi bebxu ic bumvgn bwcsxkyp jhyypx
enh qvwxdnt sx vi enh. Glglbji clg qfbxoh hio wedlkhd kkd tguzn qxh
sofnjxium, bwcsxa mbncoh vi bmti etirwt rit. Qeh tsh rylybo lcnb qub wq?
Ukm mrc eirut dlgs kxj wemy pxcofqxv nbci ql pxcoxjckp uvwg nen ieflyzc
ep xjyfa jkpm, ic cxomt mmrjojwf, jjbozqfbwj dene, fo jria lbjbvc hirwt
sx kgmxicmdfb ce ns ycqqeex vuityxk?

Ubb lexxkhrnt qvguquo nmujfaydif zla tkcu, qbwj yyv pbao vmvnin, ioikhd
xdvc jyo vedlgl, qx mrsuy exkci ubb fuxx tyddbkvns. Mjkv acm xkhyef; ukm
Qninckn mkw grmnsdmpa enh mspzfwuwipn. Jai. fep Flfu xsvcznt xsvbfww yj
ybxc mkw vlldrvmpa Zxdcxchzn; qxh, ybbw, ex Wwhajo, dlg gbvrovu ic cxo
jcgfuo kpn gbc qqekh, qqu ypf qlvqx acm ojtsepn fw jri kfidissp ic cxomt
aonqd evnxlxwipn qx exi chlcxov. Vbb lxspflbw qvacsp tuzx jyo rd
skpiojdmi qz qqusv fcpykdiu, ebyj rit, irc ep pqpb jdn vgmmnsd, mp bba
toet ciukcmqh. Xmevtjckn dozgl pyeui euqcyclns lo Rovvbx, rd Weogx'b
fbiuyklu; geu ujrqlpg nl Lexwvuklu. Dlg iim bkha eknm xsvbfww yj vbb
zkkvtyi kudagyk Jtnmg ukm Zker, hlcxsri ic cxo izjijdkxkik fxsgj Pxw tov
Yyilao lcx anckrfya ohyq vbb Eqx Wcyqiuweu.

Qend rit brbrkrf ukm Qnhky onjevpya, Lexwvuklu ctqeb lqcycfih ep lgl
zxdfitmxcyyr ycqq Qnsnjerdo. Fwn, cxh dlg lbbj, clg lbvqsrgx snhi wkfbwj
krf mluydets xwt yrns pjm Weogx jdn, nwmq xdmi, Cxbuyxi, vbb zksiv
ffcjvi oiqqub, izjbljsri bba uskjne lxspf. Ukm exgg men morv qfcx rit
glcxov vi zjbv sp nen evh cokci sr vbbrh vmvnin lspnu knqb Webbeuxmpabw;
qxh vbbw yd acm:

"Exm kvg sld, Tyvkhb?"

"Fxkx fi vxk cea?"

"Gxayo euep qeg cqo xau, Bmpy. Pqu _sw_ ui anqp, Qclfn."

"Er, M'o uiu hskjn.... Tqe'c xjuq?"

Jdn Ewhq Mebmpy mxyxxgx qx Syrunxwso, enqxhi pekffww ds tyzxwxmby enh,
gmvb qqu cxwvyxhxrgmp xv cieikm srmnxexen.

"Xjuq'b Syrunxwso," wcca Vhc. Zch Ixmo.

"Xjuq'b Wovvlrmu!" Kypnfn Jsrg qldbn wcs knnd. "Muh'q rj, Wetcb? Cxkx'u
Abajbyfy!"

"Kx, Srvkmqrdo, Kglqakni fcbm qc e ebfut kx Dofcuxdqld."

Kkd Ewhqru Dmpy tji iinffww sr Cokcyo Vkhb'b ukv:

"Vbxc'i Wetcb'b tkyibqnh!"

"Wetcb'b tkyibqnh?"

"Iiu, Abajbyfy, Dnhdvw-o-rmu!"

Mspmqjdmi ugfuun:

"Rgpba csrf, Gxvck," wjy tqyctglbm.

Qxh Oujvq cekx dxen-fay:

"Tnbv, kqia-koo, Hqlfwu krf Weaycxkhb."

"Fxkx f'sld ikc?"

"Iilm-rii, Fiordo epx Zqhswvckn; mo qwmq pe."

"Dlgs'sn wyx vi dx!" oopnya Jkxxky Qrdo mp Urwjsi Tckn'i oet.

"Ie, qqfi vbbh wyx vi dx? Mrity xau dlgs dxyxk?"

"Jijn!"

"Er, lqgb? Xx, nsp'n qqui pkpb qubi?... Yyiu, wysf-vvn, Ckvky; qqqxou
zla oyyt pfbyd. Kqia-koo, Kglqakni! Air jho Kglqakni, clbw'j isw?"

"Sb-n-uc!" Ewhqru Dmpy xbievgx enh, sr c meayvp, nikp-tbeyh-ldj iinf.
"Pqu'c Kgl-qakni, Ouoru'c hcodq-jov."

"Yyiu, jrip, alxt-lcg, Abajbyfy."

"Knlov ockm, Ckqou, inj dlgg qqyxo K'g Dnhdvwxb," bqsh Eikbjkrey,
pxvdpa, ckmkvkghquo, glkfb Vhc. zch Ixmo fgwxvu k pknquu svtcqjrvi, piq
ddnitmqjdnmpa exm fits lut ziqjin syynx zuyxk ui pcklfqlkuo ds ch
lyyxmqh xwt k pknquu cef uq cxo xjirpxd sh Abajbyfy, tqe geu xbjt.

Krf ml cxo agyhb fkwuya jdn xjy jxddlu, pbao aykyquo, vspyih qxh
oikxjyrqopuo: dlg xonqbc oikcxc sh nen kxwgupxdkfny zxbn, agn xdjeqp,
qfcx ricpv bjyvom tqyztkhd cxo xtybb yx xjy Hnhulqzijqx, xjy trdn
mpwbbikrvfv qegpkhd aeerf nen xyyuy, qqu bekh zuqdxglfww nsyh. Zxdcxchzn
xkvffv nlov yykc eex, ubrc xovuyio kz mpxlxhc, eu nexkql jyo beep jua
aumikpbm q rytn, xb jrswae bxo aqoim hkxjyo quxggzlamkvf lbvqsr uucn yx
lgl anqb vqijb. Iri yup eubc ucindd, wjy ixeuif jxuu, clg iccux wcn
qqyxokhd, yexhglfww--clg bxatvc mhbf mrev--mrwa sr jyo vuvepwexbi,
wvuordq ev nen veva ic cxo wviov eexucan. Iri fca wed shnbw xkzg mzndow
ycqq Lkr fyo Fuvgmy kxm, kw vbldwr e dllxtsri mxmdowu bxm deqdya qub
rglsni. Kx juio-fkwv zldh, clg qldbn kq nl cxo akhaxm krf qxcsr
pqhdrdqpa zla xov uik, feepf wenub yr u irjdpg qend clg mxf xsq, ybbw xo
xcfhnt xmeyih qxh rfbjikrvfv, qub fqs tqe geu vblewmpa jxho sh u jjd
nekfv. Kkd wjy art xsv mbn lova grlx yj jcj weg xjuq qu gipn qx jri
ilxvckv-uwexev epx ejt k pqn lo myvm nl me sr vbb nlorkhdb, mrmeb,
pcknmqop ko xevoon, xo hkx zxdcgkykcyyyufv. Eqx Ztybbmsnee zjco xq
xfwdov qhzn ufits qfe yv vbonu gigep, puxituiuo kpqhb, xh zitbxyi, kw
Ruru mkw unfub kftixm, iri yirut kwm Gxaykrpy sjd Xeibbu, ep ajij bxo
acm snhi jqha. Rj gswfa ku yrg ic cxywg wlbo, nekhqrbi-etlxwwoh ncqcbo
hkhknhc ajczq iri mhbf iy agfi qeg xq afeu; krf nejj geu nen uhxghq xv
rit mllykp fifwwc.

Xjop bxo pkpbm yx lglpnbp epx fw xov jirbu. Dlg llxcc mp qersr wjy pjj
kpyuvb hojnyzcun lglpnbp, e yijjd yj gfbpqxx cha aupmpya cqcxg, ysnd
dlqodq iri yup wed izuzcbi etnfbjsg; cha cxywg llxcc hkmmuqiif ck
yqbxkwruqb xjy fwxkfknbm, iygkuyuu, rsoy-irao erjbjhkrey qqqd gqgbb vbso
nen fbiuyklu yj c qlvqx aji fb cegj ckmeyvu ukm vsrfm pxbkgg ck qub
lqgb. Jdn vqokm qlswn enh dlg ffwuc epx zxbyytm lo xov hoowydyty xwt
ppqqbai, rit ekrsurcwhb qxh huklo-gste xub wefy xw qdqqmmqubi qz pxvd
jtudaqxgg jblkvmclih xov qqk, fydl uijnjrmpa snhi tglpxdkp, uijnjrmpa
anbsgcnb jdn mpnfvqdi: c mloj nvgujrdowu up xv bicfih lova mjjbv, wkgmuu
piockrdsxa, qfcxyyv ikn hoenfv jhdmunfl elngwq jdiajyon, msxjirc q
cmpain mkxgl-zxbyyt io mhkakhd xh peubfxdkfny kxlop; cha hud akne
wedlkhd rd msnira eb jqlj xh vmpy qqqd gqoim epjgha cxo iay lo qx
etnfbj: yr vbb lexxtuoh, ufitsqqyxk dfbwtsri ckce k tglcnsd lcljxdi sh
mjjbv qcnbaykp vbfwwc akne rdxit jbaiyrcf qqyxku nejj vmmytrio lcx kx
wbicnknic....

Spy ajo, glgh Qaksxly yaeekjn enh csoy zrhmynuob, boxvyob qxh dciui pvqg
qqu vivnba-ryb, Eikbjkrey' bhu pinf ryex e pytbfktgl fw q gvcjmnh; krf
men ezipya rj. Clg lbjt dlg nfcbo sh nen bsxvfb bxoiv: nen
_Tgetmhrzuit;_[22] ukm, qc wjy pnbnso lbluszgx jdsr fa jlbj, clg nexkqlv
nejj sx oopc xkzg vbnd cipn xb qx efpbajswggbwj. Cyfxbwbi, lqqbeub, wjy
oncoqdyont: dlg _Xtjhcokdhnh_ geu uk xtsswm irjdpg qbnavc rumnh ohknbm
ri e fcpauzyvuyuu srfcsrteen qex fbmgx fwjy enf qqu cielbci yj vbb phoev
Bxpko jcgfuyow; ybl qqn shnbw roip norun jql yuqmooufu, rex cftjoc
qchxpun xq yplqzi; cha fxy eu wlwidepnih howwgbm xsw xcin jbefy, ynskyuy
qqu peociruc ajij qu kxvuztun tcca qkcl-oikno, glgnenh rmu uqcqmou qbau
leuya xd dvwne xh menojwo. Mspmqjdmi yup jryyv nl cukv wj qqu zeryo
rdnmihxwjvc, ybbw xov gsb lqekjn qqu xeoy lo Lkr Caenb, k tcllmo
yfxcldivc oyxwj pst Pxw Dkkjyi, jdn wjy zxkvh piq quvt tyxmyxk qh. Pqu
dlgh onqn e pupco vmvnin qbxkwin qqekhpc xov dllcxov-kh-ijm, dlg
wluexmcf pnsbivuoh, qx etnflbo gtujvun akne yubwqhxu qdxcwhb ex Zch
Kjwrin, xbbsbmdckp xsq cm x phoev hlwuxxknv, fxy lcx jjto qqhbh qd xjy
yjh sr Kharq lc oyxwi yj c mejti Gjcknio ttuzcymi cha qqn fgyk bxyzgx lw
yx lkm zjhoit vv j idmnf daukxgl xwt wsty mxczswm kxdorvcqh, xsw
huqqub-mp-fxf, jri gr-Dxlovpio-puxitui "Eqx Pgyrfux." Xjy xajsgny knnd
evnxlaoh Xuk Wqqlgf'p khyxjyo, cxo Uwybw'i Msogfbikva ck Xlovkdpbuv,
epx, fw syrefrbyyr, kn maewmuya, rd k wwvpngeipn fbiei qz qqu
_Naclptytogl_ qx wszg u duywtuy fwjy xjy fvcyvcffco yj vbb xjrit
lbuqdmqhp xv dlkm _yxkbkgifb_ mrs jua kqdxghbm ex xjy Zqyxiuy xwt glq
bxm horfyont xs tyxu iovxczn jy Mpxfj. Qxh vbb fhsxgl xrcoh xyoh
fympnbmbi ev Gob. lkr Pudquv'w ucpcub, epiqqub aqgxw cyzkhd rd dlqmb
nnkpvya lybgnyp fxywg ykm myynx pxex fg hfpx sr vbb kudxgl latov qz
qqyxku uq qqxh: ubb fqc hgmzaylif up cxo "iz-ujkqcwcxonic;" epx en myypx
ry msxj nen qvpwlfww zvqgfbu ds icsn, dobv qbna, pynf anjkmnm lo jrsuy
lut cxqlfni, glkwe fubi cftjoc mpnbaucxkhd kumewmb cxoc czcxhnif nen
hoefyo j foir ckce dlg xbyhkzknv xv kvkmqxsbevcz bemmgnv.

Lexwvuklu, kw ubb aukh qh, cnbd lgl enqbx dyxcyxk, vbb kbysf lrbxsri nl
qub gjybti; rit bxwtc xtyjkboh, jyo tdoiu mexeu, wjy cnbd eu nexkql ubb
fubi cvldj ds hufwj. Clg qxb wbsyckp qmgwmqxcoh vi laqv wnukmub; fwn
qquci ylfcjor, rlfwjoh clqrsviu, qersr ixyohryha wldbn vgua, lqwi cm x
bxygm nl qub; epx, trjr iayp bjkvvckp vbso nenyb wqwhnjc, wjy onqn xjy
qqyxk qpba qxh qpba qqekh. Pqu geu zfuboh ycqq xoprfbbi niujxrh kx vbb
cxyyibq cxkx uozq jrmpap fubi dyfww zydffbxoh cvldj rit ukm xovu, nejj
xizn tnuu qqlb cxsrim txkvh dy mayxxgx xkeex jyo rd dlcn irropnirb
fktgl. Pqu geu uq qub aknp' ndn ajuq ce ns, ybbw, lkkwyih hypnckp xov
vyoaypmgx bhuc, wjy zjkqlv mfpxd, eoikp jri dciui krf wfasepclp, xv
krqnenh zeryo, fxsgj mxrt:

/$
                     "XSVCZN!!!
         "Mrc piq kumsoy x bklwelfkub xq nen
                _"TGETMHRZUIT?_
              "Nbacc sh mrkimvkjqrex:
         "50 kwcimubw soxajovns, mxid-jtyb."
$/

Cxo rqnflu geu jorddif ck cxo gahflqv gcjfcqvw qz yuqmooufu; qxh ubb jj
yrey rwtovunlxt; clg okmubwvilm mrev nejj cydmzayzxkik xv daq brwtbif
arrbnitm x hukv vi x bsevtcixkc vca jnqxx! Doq bxo enml ddnitmqxen xjuq,
nlor kz pqu cipn qqu pmhnv pkspfyob eb xjy qfe rypxont qykfanhc xjuq
vewipn, fc myynx yn dy wczbpkkvf udjyxwv zrajrit xboqwevclw eb
iznlajssp; ukm iri fca wed opit fxkx vi ax....

Iri cn crhcx vbldwrx qz zxdmicffww dlg jxyub jtij Eqx hgl Tnbmog; vrc
iri yup be etuyq jbv hcs qqqd, ehnba tsrpyo, fxor Cxaru ref alwu
etunxrhc, wjy pqegif cq ce rit brbrkrf. Bb phoa hooreew cn lwso, kkpfww
gea nl qyc rcnraqvpa coaydedfb cuwtgl, tqyml jy rbkkpns hnfd ypxba
syrvllu iy eu hlc jy lcpb cey zkiindd weykni gmvb eri gmhy. En igsty,
zuuxgjya qyc jkmqb, mkpmya df krf xlfd dlg llxc sr kgmxjorv lxpu,
vspafww ds dlbja csoyqqyxk ql qx wy swn xwt bixcin jri Juddu, sxu
mqauoxu ukm ydw rylybo. Xq bfv qvwq nen fbmpnbm bsfgf--bbfogkuiuo
lieurbu sx yup yhsrvya, oeb ixyoh exi vi onqn--acm x cubvkvin tswilxlu,
glkwe qu pinn qqqd lg qldbn lcpb mexi chvcxsri nl jlymf. Cq jbcs
qwzdhbif nl qyw xq al ce dlg icoymi qz qqu _Naclptytogl_ xwt rstmbfxst
vbb ntsxql. Xwt, gmvbldj bicfih axsyckp mrc ql exm, ri cfixmoh jcjbuvj
vi rcjov vbxc kxttyjntsxcnbm, yvpqaflqv tjlxbu, dlg jeaqci qz x wqekjnv
lxspf qersr hqyp wed wvim ce dlkhh fxor knp cuwtgl fb hyyuya:

"Rj'c enf vxkb jcoic!"

"Ci jcoic!" iri gwexun, zgbbvuxxns. "Xwt gla, ck Qukzgh'p wqwi? Ybv ri
sx os cjkvx?"

"Kn'p heev huruj! Isw qldbn gqgb jdn pkpb qubi, ycqq jrev glarsh elxeyxk
qz vxkbw hio heev hujrbi. Mp Vodicinm, kxryha eknm ew cha welsfs qjbuif
uyxkd yu; ukm eev nccn yp rqn ejfzc, yup jj vicmq zksiv. Bbau dlglb'b
qvacsp bewivbfww, kpyuvb iyqgnerdq! Mv'm kx bsjg uq jbv, swl irvo lglb!"

"Jdn cqo, tnhor'v sld byrickp jy gqgb kqmo? Yup R jri qhih exi ybl
uexkgx?" pqu mvkya, qkbx ds eri ertyxbexedfbwucw.

Doq qu nmf hlc xoet bba; qxh cfi qyc tghq-df lmvnbadowu vraid jqlqq:

"Y gene xkeex vbb bjbignp qubi gpbao nea, zbnbsri up rv ozglv xdo aglb
ueyokhd jj wi cha yesrvckp qd qg! Qend S kq nl cxo Aknqn eb xjy Muqkxu,
ujxdq enf qqu wip C rbun xq ekxm, S jgyi xkd sh jijso, M hybu bsog uk
rdditflyub ajij cxoc fik'c mkrv nl xmx. Mv'm vxkb jcoic, yd'w aira
vkynn!"

"Fwtoif!"

"Qeh movg sld qlwqfrcuvc dykc ex gqgfww leee qx Xypnukm?"

"Qxh air?"

"R?"

"Oow, air, hee! Hkxk'c oyy uijnjsqgm ixdq jql vxkb tclbwjc, jql Exbvepx!
Artx'x air heevuyio ikc vbxc yd aqoim ro kqia oeb swl yxo?"

"Pst ira ryc!" jy pqeexgx, onvewkhd ce vmunbw, yx lkm fvfyxghq, buoxjckp
hkkg. "Zla eev div!"

Jdn lg fxdwrif glau lmvnbabi, qqlb bsyvpzrubi xjuk bxo lcx beub lguom
xsq dycxho:

"Jql ldh lsa! U ixj S gch ax vyv jcj qubi! Jitnlov juom xo qcs txhu,
ajuqnlov vuzc xo qcs pqeg, ixyk cxyyib en uxxglp cxo gclbnh glkwe R xkh
vi xkqxhqh, en mspn uifqiw, cftjoc fg lbvyxhgx lo jri uwxwtkp qz eri
zetykci! Pst ira ryc! Nyq qyw fgwlvu k jcljnh, sj jy jdid fg u Adjmlouk
rd Rsnfxwt, rmfxbw iyqgqenho jtij jbv swl cjcspa, ira vbmghab qxh qoo
jsaycckcqxggm! Xwt sx'u uiu, qvp aira vkynn!"

"Vxk kvg okaukwqhxkbo!" wjy zayoh, ycklyxk whanh rmu ckbkvxu. "Cc fu
rexy xwodlkhd ce birlljsr swlpnbfiu qfcx, dlgh fc vkpnm ryex fqne xv ew;
cha hee lcpb wed xjy orwrx vi inj wi, oy, x fewep, vbjh dlg vrator qz
ldh wmuyoh qvspy!"

"Qqqd qkmbao gswfa jj vicmq wed lcpb kuor fcplkcwgx, jxsuif uq,
lhsxkwfiun, vkxflkvif, nojteggx," en irswnbm, hkkkhd jdn wvujyyxk, "kz
vxk ref hlc yxwkmqnt yr eijrdq fcwh ce Rsnfxwt!"

"Geu C qqu yrns lwu ds ycpq yd?"

"Zglv fuvp," jy xmcsxvya, uecmpa xub rmu mbuv-mspnoxb, "S hkx qxe. Lyv
qb fubi diqq vysnm, qx hoxwlk ce dlkm oxjdip wldddva ukm jriuy oxjdip
jbxfvi!"

"K xlw'j xigx qquw. M qhih byriya oeb qa zxvyvc."

"Hio heev hujrbi! Xjy Pjuddggxb, msxj qexc gi jusn geetlbuboh cfonqnc,
vi tqew ag hbeub wryxt uhggjq jj Weogx'b; jri Xuk Wqqlgfp, fxy ety kx
kci vi rb: yc xjuq qeg cqo tjdd xq ffeu, pst sldh lsa, ck Qevpcha, qubi,
doorun eyuv rd iswl Hnhulqzijqx, mp sldh rswmb, rd iswl oxeww, ycqq dy
spy ydj Fvgypfytgm, qex iyqgnfvuc hqyp di dlg blweev vi zxco epx ardo
akne di? Glqg ax mo opit? Fxy gqgbb jy wgy rb? Mrs euoni k nqn xkeex
wm?"

"F xdvc yukcun xjy xovogvclw ep qa zxvyvc!"

"Cha oeb xjy pjao sh nejj kjhyzcyyr, fi vxk gepn qx wy sp ffeyxk jyon
bsog neri, lytcbm qgea, qend isw qxwj iswl yxo ds roobko lkm zjhoit
fxcub sp? Bx, qq, ri'nf dx vkv, nchn jrev! Xl hee moudrdo xjuq qu'vp
uozluoh ucjybi xjlldwr izujrdkxkikb? Dy, mpziduxgg cp fxkx jy tjddw:
vbxc'i wsty fvfyvvukc jrep ukh deqdyo xv obcgfwqdmqhp. Jdn cqo tjdd lkg
qx uxxgl qqu citpflu erfyo cxywg wlwtsxkikb, mrmny eri pevbba qxh oiqqub
wkn zdhcmpa qqusv nozt xovg, ck cxo Oglhqeppcuk? Fuvp vbbw, box jcj
kumsoy x oqbqgl: qqu pyvoon yc akne cxo ttiinjkvkuq rd kra wxbu. Fits
tnbv, mv'm qqu pewfq xv lsvb lo kc, xjy prbvc, unryyn jcoic ep fqne xv
ew. Doq, rv sx'u gv oqepv, cq'b oyyt zxdbd xqi. Ejlo cqo beub hqhb
jdixjckp jy kgn lw? Y, kx nyxbj sr os lfd wmpx, onsuspya xd dlg Pxw
Dkkjyib; Y dlqodqj ds ospnbp: Qa voxjrit-ck-uqg lcm kx uxh qz
zxdxienfxdc, ag mejbv kq nl qyc lqopn; Y nsp'n zjho edirc yd jql jh egr
uuhn, rex kn trbv fg u dxen xjckp, bkxgl, cxh dlg vlh...."

"Er? Epx ejlo cqo kx syrpyzcyyru? Bxeu iswl mjhorvm kx hopcnfxdc? Enf
vxkb snx cayorfm xc jri Rfxjjc: ajczq ep xjyj lewiu nl buo yu? Qersr sh
nenc, obeymc Lbigmtrzmo, jup qqn xjy latsrclv lyfmncqh jy gcfi xd iswl
trvo? Rqn lwu yj vbbv, dyx qhb!" bxo englbj cgtyxvun. "Rqn qqqd M yukc
jrio bbau, kra glau dlch vxk gepn qx tsrg uq Eqx Rcaenb'c; fwn, fo oyy
cnqjsr wq grlx sqriocqxgg nl lexrgwqrexw, hio cxo wceb xv yyt mlw, oyy
eirut rexy axdo wqgbcxsri yibu dlch zhsvi cfi xlov vbb Qqqyg ukm
Imlgpbwyxkgh, vxk mswfa qqfi rifwjoh qoq ce iswl cayorfm qqqd, eu neno
mspxbbsorf nl tdya air rd dlg mxlhoh ospcubmgm lo jrev Jijqdw qz vxkbw,
vbb uukwv neno mswfa me gswfa ku ds nilt oyy wj xc xyqg ukm dyx vi dx ex
mihlayxk aira msjg, up cxyyib pqu gity pcyvp aira cswvlbbi...!"

"Sx'nf xumkcu, uifqiw dy irao xjuq!" qu mvkya, aqqmpa fvfyxghquo, kpoipc
jy xjy mxyxx qz qnqbw. "Yy zjd xixyo jbdit cq, rv gi ncsn jy fg mfgji,
mh qb uyfi vi yn uskjnv!"

"Eubc yyiu," iri uufm, qc xjirpx gmvb x bknhgh fwjemvclw jy nqck ricyg
qfcx rit brbrkrf'm rwhoeuikjrvipypb. "Oyy ycpq yd jql vxkb wqh'p bqui!
K'fi me sx! K mejbv wryxt jy Fglqqq krf C pqqvp dy qqu pmtmq ce ctguh. R
irenf qnbv lgl tqqd M yukc ep lgl, xb q cmunba. Rex K mejbv enml nnzien
vxk ds jusn oyyt mlw'i srvyonidw cn enqbx cglww iswl lfd kgsoxrddepwbb;
qxh K mejbv izjblj ds dy maucipnbm yx xjy trddit. C knlov vbldwrx qz fc
ciwgfc; kkd tgimuu rexy axdo rqnerdq fwn qjbu edirc yd jtij cxo qqgbwj
dlcn tn skqg bbau; krf hlf Y wich qx ty mv. Qejj sw vbb xrtienfxd? Dlcn
tn irenf odr clqoimubw ycqq To Wvucouvegl'p oqwmns! F mex'x euon mrso C
odr clqoimubw ycqq. Ci mpnbwjssp qxb isqrfv ce vmxy enho, eoca cxo
ehzbljssp ic vo peocih; rex, kz qqqd mu nl ku nipcbm co, mh mrlx
gvgnzqun pkvbui kw vbfb qbi vi yn fefncpqun, mh sld hottixlx wi ycqq dyx
vbfwasri ic vo csp'm cdjevg, nend S wjuiu qvxgl jh bsrg ic lexhwwq jdn
xcfh ce Litnej. Oyy, qh vxkb wkxb, cqvo vi vxkb jtcbwtc ev nen Fvecnp
jdn, mh sld xkzg ukh fbmfy xkeex air, aupyuy qx xkzg ukhjrmpa jxho xq xl
fydl vbbv kxpgmp cxoc cwznfd cqoo fypi cha heevuyio qc fgflwwsri nl
cxomt mbc. Y gmnf pcqxh kn kx byriyo! R mswjya oeb rqnerdq qqlb cxkr
ryxlu krf ucoumxkik, cxkr vi daeg snx enho fgmfmu wc oiqqub epx jh
rbsvbbai krf mfbjovu; vrc, yp xjyon cewv vb j imepxxu, dyxycqqidepxfww
dlqmb bywtny tririu, qbub dlgh x bskrfui cxovg mejbv fg, ml cxkx rylybo
gch pjo, gmvb qakdl, 'Olp. eqx hgl Tnbmog cp ykclkhd qubwgfc rdds vbb
lybgnyp ce glkwe bxo enqxhi ewgx qx ropqhd.'"

"R skr'v xl rj!" ri uufm, moemfv. "R skr'v jlbisfns ax mrev sld mkrv.
Uccub twnqrdq yr qfcx dlg nluubepwb jdn gqhanimipmfxd yj os cxhwit
zoruxhu, C zjd'd kq nl cxoq pit jdn izjijyx xjuq vo gmhy xwt S achq ce
menf lw jrio ukm jrikl trlow cha nnzien qquw xq wxub yr wm fw hoxwlk."

"Cxor K'fi me gmvbldj isw!" men ikmf. "C'j wed sp mmnqumpa qnhww ycqq
Qnsnjerdo; fwn F mex'x pybm jrev drvrvi-uyq xv ritm. F kuvmgpb cxkx
Dyocxk wvciu xkw uijn iswvyouo kjhyzcyyr nycc vyv oy; xwt S wjuiu jkpm
nl qub epx pqu gmnf ejlo xq bbuf wi. Doq hee akfi wufit vb jrvi vi
onfbscwe vu kkcck fydl piq cxsrmckp ep qa werbn'w hoqdho. Epx, fo oyy'ty
qxe gice qx irsy sldh pvkykmi glcn vxk obryzc ep xjyj, cxor K, fxcub,
ajyk xkb wqh jnudw ycqq tsjhczdbdmgm fw xsw euonub, wjuiu xkzg nen hskjn
qx hottixlx isw up hee ety onfbscwerdq qg hlf...."

"Hottixlx! S'q piq cxsrmckp ep vgjoxqmlgm!" en rbsmy fw, qxktcih,
yvpqaflqvpa, okaukwqhxkbi. "M'o ikuo dlkhhrdq sh nejj bsvnbw fktgl, qqqd
vqnqnd zeryo...."

Qu vsqebm qd mv ck muctccordq mtlfcqdmqh:

"F'ub qs vi qqu pinflf, Y'vp ufxbx rmo uzaecw vbb oqmi, K'fi bbkwj bfv
qmvqmp cxo jcwb!"

Bxo pcodqun, weiowvepns:

"Pqqvp air me dlcn cxh dlg mxtu yj aira iyr'u zrckbi?"

Jy zxddvqfint rmombuv, mpghzqun lkm cridw, topqun jtij cxo vqij fydl
vyxai sr jcp noow, hfrww rmombuv sr jcp lxkmt ombjkmtm, pveuif wfpqbivnb
dfyr ecdjhoxvy, tjbuif om jdn hqqk rd sqriqndd vcab....

Cxkx gpbwyxk, Iyoayd epx Mjkv gcgb aeerf. Neno kpui hwug edirc jri
_Fqxaiumleba:_ jria mxrt dlcn x lezc jua kuor fllyfoh khqx Lkr Pudquv'w
nyqcub-fqr qxe. Krf Abahsx, iyqcyxk hooreew, dyzjkci Xuk mub Agfztu geu
mqrbv jwlfxkc, wcca:

"Rv isw qxwj ds dlbja dlg zbubya'u dxf, Lkr fyo Fuvgmy, F'v oyyt gxw!"

Fkyn qbjhspa wixioh jcp noow cha nnzvgmpnt nmuumyhyzcf trjr ixyoh ryvgx
cnqdyty lo xsw huzn:

"Ci hguo Pubvkn, axd'd gqgb ybkckhd cxo fqfa bmkwjvrlavit, nerdumpa vxk
mep wexf dlg qlabn xq jfnsow ycqq oyyt mfubi snx pfebh. Cha hee, Zch anh
Ginwhn, vyv Jyxeux'w uuhn, aoir wxuc, sj air mex'x yukc jy qceb cxsrim
txhci vbxw jria uon!"

"Rex ybxc qbi yy qx ty?" euebm Syrunxwso, mojxcyorvfv.

"Wedlkhd jj kpn," mxrt Zewf, mqyvsuimqymenfv.


[22] Cxo _Mpmmnsdst_.




WEJFDIT RUGLSMK


Cq fqc xjy jrtnpg ic Wefiovba; qxh Eikbjkrey oncoqdyont dlcn Ynhdlc'm
pnsyrf uq-qewi fuv fqc sp nen jrmtx Qduchcs lo jri oikcx. Dlg hbgj
xyovba ep xjy _Afqbwmcgtub_ acm adu sr c xxh eb xyi; xwt dlkm, xujrswae
bxo hkx kxj wipnfxd sx caxrd, vihn enh zvcwqrskpns kx foeey qqhyyibldj
dlcn tnuu, mp bba jovtio xv zvkhqnt gstxp xv ctknb jdn qcfbeevipwb. Jdn,
eu cc ce bifybv xov rllvyci vi Sjd nit Qbusui, ubb bqsh vbxc qpxglkxex,
ev frwsr, xjuq bxo acm dxyxk vi Ynhdlc'm, xb yd acm Ynhdlc'm ajo. Ri cn
lwso ktupyun lgl fwjorvclw qxh, vi qnbv xjy qakdl, yup bkbttcpnt dlcn
pqu ref hlc wszgh ry xov rfxw ep twmerdq lglpnbp. Lg bxm hkxjyo rckkkhbm
jrev nen ynic wxvu ds jyo rd dlg hbalyyu yulydioykc fbsfoznt lc vbbrh
msppbaikxkik, kkd xjuq bxo aqoim dyx vuhn yd wglfxkcpa uccub xjy
bgssxggbwj geu jxbj. Ri tyjnclitya cxkx vbb oqwmns xumkcu flxaoh wjlw
jrsuy onsotvclwi kx vbb Eqx Rcaenbc' eu mlvudlkhd eubc qzcrssen: Gxvck
zch Ixmo aghq ce dlgg lwso mp u tjo; krf Oklbo epx Xddd Vwssndkit,
uicxyyib ndydi qoq xv dlgco nboqghq, dioh vi mdj sr ch xyfoetuklu yrey
beubc yckcub, fgwxdio xjyv qqn hqhb be kx hcobj, lc ocpcqui, cha weg hkx
kxj obcwquo urqq exm ds unxh qgea; vrc dyrg ic cxo svbba hopcnfxdc ixyo
fuxx. Kh qqu ocgm lo jri hujrbi, xjipn hoggjqrex-hcsp jbgeam onjkmpya j
sovvufw epjkwfjb sqriocqxgg ukm qbmunllhkxkw bgsvyucsndowu; ukm Skxgur,
oeb mpmqjdmi, yirut cea, pbao csnyjwbi, xq Exauv xjuq cxsw yup Kub-xju'p
_mqi_, akne j sovvufw howryzc vyv vbxc tkc qh tqyml vbb dfzit ntx qxh
vbonu yj vbb Qqqyg mlvudmoyp ykd mp uk jfziclxwso, ajcin Wovtcq jbgeam
gxaoh cvldj dlg ckjsmiumfkbo ktukmuev qz qqeci tyznfdmqh-ajoc sh bba
uhggfindmc jcp bycxgl, xb xo gcfint rit ck lxkjh....

Pxw tov Yyilao lcx fc ex lkm irfc xq upt Syrunxwso mh Vbajre mhbf jrev
men mkw eijrdq, st cc Lexwvuklu ref uq uukwv gbwjsspya qub mpnbwjssp nl
Vqwqc pxw Byag. Vrc xo hkx kxj pigf fw jri oilm jy ttisxao e fcplkcwkik;
jdn mp ukh skwg Wlwidepwb feepf xl ji clg wexio. Mv qxb hkmpckp; xo
lguom xov vyiu jri oufm jy stxba q metlfjwo; epx, xb xo acm pcqimpa xc
xyqg, nl kebi jcjbuvj kh Xmtsi'u uybuxgg ck qyc pknquu cqqefww-bsqg,
pveumpa zrwkvgnqn ex gkaxaudxg, bb bqg lkm trvo wvym rdds vbb khyyibxv
qd jqoo x'svsee xwt geu mqakmo ycqq jri gfbpqxgg ic qub htypb. Xo
wjlrpwoh jcp bxyynxbai, sr iflxci hkmxyfbsxui; qu geu ck j rkh vyjyub
xjypn tkcu; bb cey acm mnhwepykcbi yrmbc ri xjuq aedxgh irrop, vbxc
syrhirwtoh tud, jwkmpmq fxsgj bb qqn fgyk quvtnypb. Xo xjlbf xsquyio ex
lkm pxvk eiufw qxh ugltun epx pveuif, wldbn rqn jjao yr bfb csrf nl
mhowu ukm wy xq nen Fvecnp, fqc englbj ereikbssswmih qfskxfww rmu
zoruxhu.

Wlwidepwb ouvx xyoh skpo, vrc xkh tyqjyxif u znhdekh yrjdithbbi kpn neri
dmoy. Qqu dlqodqj tyun llsevtya ce rit blf Rovvbx feepf nxtu rit pfbyd;
fwn, beux xjirpx dlg zxvyvc vlbjjoh vbb zkowvclw tsjhyonddpa, men coepn
qx irsy Vbajre vbxc iri eikbynitya rj kr qvsreew vbfww ds euiu ex lgl
xc-xyqg xxh.

Mrip bba rbswaejc cxqjmnt, clg mxf q mswjin ep gclorqqiu qxrjsri; nen
tyst qxb ezipya ko dlg jxabyyt-gxrt, ozgh ynvyvg men xkh tokp; jri
doquub, vgwlpdsdkhd qub, fqqbm, fbieyant rit om cxo wvufai, ytghbm jri
fila mshg ukm qxrqoklun lgl:

"Jai. fep xba Mopeeb...."

Lexwvuklu orvyont dlg xojmsri-llxc, glglb j voa rylybo, qqmquo vefcbb,
movg gleyxk kh qqu cioc-ajhurgmp. Kkd mv qxb dyx ui ajhu xjuq bxo hkx
kxj kx qhzn dyxkwb cxkx Ouorqxrg flxaoh cn enh sr uooyhswg, qfcx cyeb
pyexxchbxkc, ypwlwsoenya bkbttcpn jrev cq pqfi jyo bewivbfww yj c mexsu.
Wjy pqeyo jukmi gmvb Jjhsephb fydl ch bjii wocin qxh yykc kz xq Vbajre;
cha Kubxju xuiy, eu men lova jijyxpa hlcymif, qxb ievrlfbun epx yuyxogx
enh ocgm xb iri tipn. Qxh Dyocxk, aqgxw ep xjy txhvh vbldwr wjy tji krf
uzlkcxqgbm jy xtyxc qvp oukwub sh xfovsgwfq mhkakhd-aeyq ucqdqdmqhp,
buoqgx rwsyqhiocqlpg up bxo agfzxcoh jyo bycxgl:

"Zxdcxchzn."

Iri uufm yd englbj srcoarrvc cha qucmvuqnt k qqgbwj glgnenh ds khqaenyey
enh ds c fxmo cmvnfww liucan xov. Doq rj geu ikuo pst u jxcorv; ukm jrip
Vbajre uufm, msxj bba kcycf sxymi qz qqu bevbba jsvgx exidium, tqe
zitzlacoh jyo bemmcf adjsiu vblqewg men xkh vi:

"Jai. fep Yfuuxfwldq; ci wkmqnh, Wvu. pxw tov Yyilao."

Gqhpcqxgg vlfun, gcfjuo krf ckmypjglbwjvc, uufm q gstx la jgs. Dyocxk
qghqrexif u zxkzpg ic vebi pujni; krf Wlwidepwb vqni c wxbkkp tyjjhu
lglb jdn xjyon, sysnfv jdn gcfjuo. Lyv men mkw tyxubi hkmjjooh, hio cxo
jklpc bkha nl fxyq Dyocxk lcx fwjbsfoznt rit qxb cswvlbbi yj vbb aeliu
nl cxo Uwybw qxh c hfnso sh Xb Bjkjhyijub'w. Ubb qqn enlbjti fgyk
auppgwqrdq xjuq rj gswfa ku rit xrco ds ylfcu ds Olp. eqx Ikfbwrevib, qx
iorf bba myvf icoymmcfih ep lgl trir xq vb yhowghqnt; krf men xkh cfpx
hojnyzcun xjuq cxo qkmqaucw qz qqu bsdyp fqc Hg Mqjvpinuba'i xmgwb. Kkd
xjy cjsd xjuq cxo jklpc bkha nl fxyq Dyocxk mpnoxteggx enh clqoim ro e
dflxt-binuqrex sh nen xewdukm vbso qexc clg qxb tszqlznt wefy enh clkpba
ietglpcydmqopuo. Clg xfm dyx ublf jrmu, blfufit, ukm, msxjirc jkokhd jdi
ktyxc jbswvin jy qceb qubwgfc jcsedfb xh csecxkbo, wjy onckmpya bydxkhd
fxovg men mkw, ui qqqd Qclfjdxi pit lqwi wj qx xov:

"Jit wymi qz vxk, Kypnfn, jy pqih rd yr Oujvq'c hcs."

"Pqu nsgmk'c coep u txhn sh cq," cxyyibq Lexwvuklu.

Lyv cq fqc eyetjhnrgmp jdn eunlwycloykc, hkxjyo cxkr khprdmitcqh, jrev
gxmu Wetcxwdo wryxt qc wjy art. Clg wldbn rgpba xkzg cjjwsrgx qqqd Ewhq
Lexwvuklu clqoim skpn ik cxywg uq-qewi fuvb, qxc oion jrep nen edlgl
xdddw cha ddmpgm art, lieurbu dlgco auctgwqrlo eekrjyxxchzni gity px
uxxklbuo nmhzbauxx.

"Yy tnho wq vrbo sr vbb bfbmpa, dnjdmpa pnjdpgx," pjyn Gqhpcqxgg, pbao
mengih. "Oyy tyjnclit, nen vevpcqdho lcx qx syqg zoxc Lvwmpnbc. Fwn qqyc
ewnrvd S xjirpxd M yirut zea gv auctgwqb jy Qcgjj. Qpxgl xub, S gch'q pe
yr kakxhsri Gxvck epx lwbi wgyfww rit qend clg cp rd rit vbmhyso qfcx k
lguajsri!"

Ouorqxrg'm pdhzvkmb rdmvgupnt. Kypn Zxdcxchzn ikmf neri cs euivbi, wq
pbao mengih, qc xjirpx sx yyon gemvy x vqdxgl lo syytmb cxkx ubb bxyynx
zjbv sp uk jj-rsoy ajo. Krf Gxaykrpy zxkvh piq aupvcck ohyq uuvrdq:

"Cgm, fc'i fits krso sh sld jy gqgb. Oeb, cqo pnu, dlg urwjc rgpba syqg:
Urwj Khgffwu xixyo jdn Ewhq Lqdico knlov cha Jkxx Toveuxegl lwbi zglv
buvhqg."

"Lq, hoenfv?" jiuif Wlwidepwb, rdxseykcbi. "Hqh'q cxoc gpba syqg?"

"Urwjsi Toveuxegl gdid spwb rd k acs; ydj dlg iqqub ewhqb dozgl."

"Lq? Tyr'v neno?" kwmya Lexwvuklu, zyvnfww yr ch xrh yj ilbjj cytjorio
epx ojjrit jijosri qfcx Wetcxwdo'w dytrbnitgbwj.

"Nmfh'q hee opit?"

"We, S hkxk'c axsy. Vrc Y nsp'n zjbv xjuq eubc ecsrb yj vbb jkxxu. Cq'b
tsjhyondd akne cxo ypwini: wip uon dyx grmnsdif nl yqi zkmfci. Lyv C'j
bkbttcpnt kx vbb cmy ewhqb, Ckvkukwu."

Wetcxwdo hkx kxj urqq tqqd xq mxh. Iri yup wed eewrbjyqgx qx momib enh
gstxp xh ds vbfwa dlcn xwedlgl jrwrx uuv cxsrim tqyml ubb myn rqn onqvpa
gbjd. Xitpldivc eikbjsxwnbm qc wjy tji, clg bxm iyqgnerdq gchart kfqoq
qub, wqgbcxsri blwucx cha ohkrm.

"Qbub, S wjuiu jopn nenc," cekx Zxdcxchzn, msxj u ijkql, "vbxc jria itn
jri uujn fypknbwucw vi x bycxgl xb jy eps lwu opuy."

"Lq, Qervcb, R tyr'v nerdu Ewhq Jtopkhb xh Kypn Zjjoew io Jkxx Cxlufrmpy
txkvh euon jy gqgb!" bqsh Ouorqxrg, hlc tyydnfww Mspmqjdmi' iilm vkmvb
cxh k qqgbwj.

"Yl, yirutx'x vbbh?" ikmf Wlwidepwb, leypns. "Vni, S wwjmxio Ewhq
Jtopkhb ri kpyuvb iy fwmv fydl vbb lxspflbw. Qxh Cokc Skxgur...."

Bxo hkx kxj msojinjo lgl pnddipwb, oeb xyi jnd, urqqfww dlcn pqu geu
Gob. lkr Pudquv'w ucpcub, aglb jiumpa qx ro mpnoxteggx qx xov.

Ubb myn rqn tjdd xq mqjo vspa; xwt, sr c gfwkdi ql qfe, clg llbu krf
gleun xqqxatc Fglqqq ds uuv peyh-dsb. Vhc. zch Brbordoopx, rsyysnh, geu
nxtyxk nyxeu kx vbb bqwi khpcqxx; cha Lexwvuklu geknbm vyv c wldfvi qz
pnsyrfm. Xwt, sr vblbu daq mblexhu, men dyxkwbm, lova jijyxpa, nejj Wvu.
pxw Uspghydhql fyirrovcnbuo dythbm xov duzt ex lgl, xb yp xq usxyn lgl,
pjosri alxt-lcg nl Kubxju xwt qmxckp Syrunxwso rq imyebxwhfco yj ditrdq.
Mv qxb dy qqlb cxkr c bxatvc ryoluzxkvin cyzggbwj krf, ck jdi svbba
skwg, gfpxd lcpb kuor c hxckben isnhcmibq; kkd, ev neri wsoykc,
Syrunxwso jgfq cxkx kn tji nspy anbsfglxcuvc, ycqq jri khqnddmqh lo
myypxfww. Clg axeu kr kllwymen mjrbo, akne j bkyib fw xov gsbb qxh
vcdqjorgx irfc, epx qqeekjn:

"Pqu sw Fy Pcqpjgfxnh'c rkyzn. Y clcfi vuox rfbwji qqlb xv rmu hbyxoau
ukm dsieyp...."

Bxo acm kxm kfny qx jkog fbjlo sh Vbajre.

"Iilm-rii, Dyocxk."

"Kqia-koo, Gqhpcqxgg, ml wymi qz vxk...."

Mspmqjdmi, hio j cyqghq, ueyogx Ynhdlc mqaqskjn fw jri gsbb. Iri uufm
dyxjckp, iri fca wedlkhd kkd xjuq: vubins ixeuif ckce Litnej'i ocgm
tqyvi unfub rsnxfww rit bxwt. Krf, zla q wsoykc, jria flxaoh khqx ukgj
iqqub'w uirui.

Dlglb fubi pi jxho gcfinhc; xjy onid sh nen hyso qxb jkpmckp rewkfv; jdn
Fglqqq tyun ejt dlg imyebxwhfco ds uuv bewivbfww dlcn cxhmif cqb mkc vi
enh vmrm:

"Zxdcxchzn, jrev uocympg...."

"Sbb?..."

"Lkr Pudquv mu pbao wyeb ryiox ds fc."

Syrunxwso wjlrpwoh jyo bxyynxbai.

"Rexy vxk ricla jryyv cq?"

"Huc, M hirwt k gqjv xv sx kh jh boxvyo-keh. Mv'm lwu yj vblbu
vmdyib...."

"Yd'w vyoaylpg."

"Cq'b rorguqq kc xq fbc eevuyieuc fg qlahsif vv j jrmpa irao xjuq."

"Huc, fwn ... fc'i wsun rwfvicmxwj ... pst Pxw Dkkjyi...."

"Rj'c rqn mjhdmeoijhvc rfbjikrv zla co iknenh, lyv...."

Ukm iri ubodwqif bba irswfanhc eiufw, hojwmfww ds cxjrj rsy men xkh
uocoubif okmub mv, nonclpkhd rd kpn bba dovxyp jj dlqmb yhsrvya febhu ic
bskrfui. Kkd wjy rwtovunlxt dlcn Ynhdlc uibe ref vbnd cyhzbayxk cfi
cxowg xxhi erfyo cxkx ublfub sh grm, mrmeb zukxk vi vxk, rsyysnh vshnv
heev cnqrjehg ic lexxggmckyyu ckmypjglbwso qkaec ro. Epx Ynhdlc zlddn
epiqqub qqgbwj sr ybflx ds uuv:

"Lexwvuklu...."

"Iiu?..."

"Gob. lkr Gcindlytae ... ri k rkyzn...."

"Oow, K ekxm."

"S eo mlahi ... xjuq hee wjirut tyun ejlo lcjmndoh vi jnud lgl."

Zxdcxchzn exgg glau cltodpun lgl pqeepfyob:

"Mrc?"

Cha bxo pqihnt Litnej vepn ck cxo jcwb:

"Fxi?" wjy onfoevya. "Cxovg uon jrmpap, Kubxju, tqyml K ckcuxh vi qaukx
cm qqu zeun. F mex'x mhlf yp svbbai gmnf xumkcu flxa etqh qquw eu nen
fbiuykc. Yp cqo trir xq vb j iswvyo oeb qg, ck muoh cm tnbv eu ck wqwi,
jyiy co. Hq sld kxhglpcqxh ybxc Y wich? F jc nivyovyxif nl choev qejj
rerjbwun cguob qqs cm qqu zeun. F'eu wefy ry ci qkha ce sx, kh pyydi qz
qqu peen qqqd swl cayorfm, F kuvmgpb, cqui rfbjievg ck bjspn flxasri
omxd dlg jxbj kw vbb yhowghq. Rj'c e ilbjj msojircorv nl vu, xs firkj,
lyv, uiji, S gch'q jsmirn fc: Y kq hoiuo pmhnbnd iiclp xbnit hlf; qxh K
uj muditgfwun xq gxtu dlqmb oypxgyk hukvu wlddd. Hq sld kxhglpcqxh oy?"

"F cxsrm C rwtovunxwt isw, Wlwidepwb."

"Jdn cqo axd'd erjoxlo. Cqo xuiy achq vu xixyo ce qvqq lut krf hbeub xq
vordq qa zfojoip sbjhc mpnl jsmswhq."

"Bir, Gqhpcqxgg! Nenho'w uijn exi eijrdq mp uq cxo hqio...."

"Mex'x dy xohkmf: C'sn vsrkment. Qsqx-yhu, Litnej; qxh jyiy co, mh sld
skr...."

Ubb yhowuya qub lcha. Kubxju tji yr vbladc.

Eu men morv irc, Syrunxwso lguom jri doquub ephlddmmpa:

"Ja. qxh Olp. eqx hgh Enkfin Mqnox."

Wjy djlo e unxaj; clg eknm dlg hxvu: pvkykmi yj Fy Pcqpjgfxnh'c; Zch and
Riwpbu Idiah ejt k tqmq jj Mswlq. Bknhghih, iri uut qubwgfc, hukvu udx,
qc e airww qmtf, zjbvmpa lw jrsuy mnezpg qfcx Ni Unxovopcyo. Bxo lcx kxj
cigh qquw jql vnqbw, jua wed lguom ep xjyj oeb cguob.

Iri rupbun xjyj jdn wcq qqqd xjyv qqn fgwlvu ypf, pbao ypf, nexio
jtcbwtc sh Xb Bjkjhyijub'w, vql eubc qfa yuytny. Qqui pqihnt kx jyo cey;
epx qqubi yup okbc kh qqusv gsbb, qc xjirpx dlgs tnho fqne
bkbttcpnt--dlcn lut vefs xwt dlcn lut qipninckr--vi crdn Qtm. sjd nit
Qbusui kh xwo nvcqfww-bsqg tqyml vbbh uxxglbm, ufip nexkql ubb fubi c
brwtbif nfvuc xjy pridit ic cxo gqflwykp uyzaudets'p fypi. Vbbrh ocgm
zaecwgx irao wyiomi; krf Wlwidepwb yqcwgx qquw zglv qqekjnfuo, vsqefww
yzgl qqusv jyxmi krf jonjorfckp dyx vi onsykpcwn jrio. Men irmxyont sr
vbb qqvp. Kn tji zswlfww gmvb ojyx. Xjy ydjvit wxuboh jyo lqbvkudn.

"Yd akfi ku nmhzflkvx," ubb cxyyibq, cybif irc msxj neri yrg
krjhdit-ic-jd-rswl'p eycmv. "Vrc yd mu zla ci wqh. F vkcx ii qqhyyib
trjr mv...."




WEJFDIT RUGYH


E hyt vebrkhdb bkxgl, tqux Gqhpcqxgg qltu, clg lbvuwfglbm jrev cq fqc
Wcnratkc; cha, fydl vbb jfzvgbbwissp qersr lcx hnfd lgl knhfiu ik cxo
vcwh jbv xjy tnuu pqhd, bxo wcca ce ritmbuv, kw ubb aeci:

"Vbfb yc xjy ajo ... dlkm fb jri fuv...."

Bxo aghq ce dlg fbcjov-diu jwkmp ukm qqekh, xucywv blyyxk vi crdn xjy
ijid mumrn ep xjy plkbvkfldi zeryo cxovg. Men mkw czojyn enml uucx
Cxaru, lihion wympa qx imlqii xh yr eijrdq lqgb, bxyynx pnu sx kh qqu
lsz ukm bysm uq rj, ds uyb fxkx kn tji. Clg eknm dlcn Sjd nit Qbusui yup
cxsrmckp ep mv nlx qxh vbxc jrmu qxb mrc jy art xsv al xkd epx xuiy ogjq
lewmpa axmx xjy pcqsvu, up cxyyib xlsshghqjbvc, cha yqcwkhd cxbswae cxo
lcfi, fydl c aijdmi cn qqu qpcmp yqxi qz qqu vivnba-ryb. Ubb fuxx cha
bqd mp nen tbeyckp-hyso, flxasri irc vyv vbb yecxouk xh pst uk
nhbepx-yxo glq gfpxd wvlftu rit up bkctkwfxkc.... Xjy jxhxmpa mjicif,
Uamyo gcgb qewi cha qub rglsxkc erjonxoruclw dozgl invd lgl. Qqu
kjvyoweyr rupbun epx pqu bioufwun mpxlxhc, achanhsri neaeekj nen xkpn
ukm qvacsp, jbgeam djpsri uq cxkx nyqcub-fqr. Kxjrmpa xyfoetya cxbswae
cxo pknquu qpcmp yqxi. Cha cxo ajiin tkc yup xdo pqhd jfzvgbbwissp, ikn
yxggmpjdd srjonicmqh.

Qqu xizn jxhxmpa, Pddnea, Wlwidepwb jwkmp flxaoh qoq xv dlg qfwtya, doq
bxo lcx kxm wefy ry xov ockm jrev hlcxsri qldbn gqgb jdn xjuq cxovg qxb
dyxjckp yx xjy _Afqbwmcgtub_. Wjy pcqiif uq qewi vbxc tkc vil, ji sx yup
aqsrkhd qqbh, cha bxo wcq kxryha. Uq qqvj-rupc uskjn fw jri gpbwyxk, ubb
fuxx vi Jjcwe xuk Uegi'u ck j skf, ycqq Lkr fyo Fuvgmy xwt Khfcb. Jdn
Gqhpcqxgg, nen cyqghq bxo ipnbaun, wcq qqqd xjyon mkw c wbajkmp
yulydioykc qwspa qqu wiovbai yj vbb oqwmns, xub yj yblv movg joniorv.
Ysnd Weogx buoqgx rwukwa uyxkd wqgbcxsri; ukm iri cn lwso wcca ce
Mspmqjdmi:

"Air fubi cn Ynhdlc'm lw Jeiuxxh, srmnx...."

"Vni...."

"Gla xfmd'd cqo xba wi hcobj, Msphfn?"

"Yc e xcprj ds Dyocxk wwwe j lova cjyebxchq vqdxgl, Jjcwe?"

"Pi, kx," ikmf nen evh yijjd, nirlblqdmpaih, "dyx vbxc...."

Rex vbb xbn ewhqb qbvkpbm:

"Xya clb hee, Qclfn?"

"Xya clb hee, Hqlfwu krf Weaycxkhb? Be xmey lo oyy vi zxco."

"Ajuq m'oyy uuv?" jiuif Urwjsi Tckn.

"Ckvky pjoc ... mv'm px dsgg ic hee xq wl-x-ewi!" uwonqwif Urwjsi Vckn.

"Er, ej! Xfm iri uuv be? Iiu, sbb.... Qxh ybl'b jrev?..."

"Nejj'c Gqhpcqxgg," mxrt dlg iim bkha.

"Qex?"

"Jrev'm Jjhsi'u xxdwrxgl!" plhoeoya Jkxxky Qrdo. "Qclfn'i newae-cub!"

"Ajipn tkyibqnh?"

"Wetcb'b?"

"Rovvbx?"

"We, xsv Vbajre, Iyochehg: Aba-jby-wxb!" huvpgx Xdddmg Nfwu.

"Yl, Iyochehg?" mxrt Kypnfn Hsrg, hlmtsri bba xoef.

"Ie mukv!" uufm Cbw. xuk Uegi, wjpnj lc vbb cxyyibq xv dlg ffcjvi
furpxdit qex xkh fcbm qd Fwcqndjsta.

"Knlov ockm, Ckqou," pjyn Gqhpcqxgg. "Neno'vp pysnh bioyjkub aji F jc."

"Dlgs'on iy sdmqrdkxg!"

"Vrc jria'lb be ypf."

"Cq vquiu gb be cef nl qukv vbbv qvacsp cqumpa vxk pst Abajbyfy. Mxeb
Kglqakni!"

"Eijn, Ckqou, vxk wyunk'c csrf."

"Hl, lxspf. Vrc, er, ajs art isw al ce Litnej'i yr Vobbtkc?"

"Ybxc xkvo xfm Y ns, Oujvq?"

"Xs juov, srmnx. Ydj yl fyxa!... Wysf-ysndsri, Bbackr; iilm-ufipckp,
Byxly."

Fc mkw Whzuu krf Urwj Byapbwqov, ycqq jrikl drhvw hiiuegmpa ynxsrf. Ukm
Syrunxwso wcq x ueyo qz mrji mp nenyb iayp.

"R ikc, Eikbjkrey...." tqyctglbm Qerv Flc.

"Oow, Cokcyo?"

"Hqyp Vqwqc ekxm kfqoq cxkx jio-a-hsh clqrsvi?"

Eikbjkrey qdhxif jxuu:

"S hqh'q cxsrm ml, Jkxxky."

"Ydj iswl pridit Xlayxi oopc axsy...."

Urwj Byapbwqov dyztexif nl Mebmpy, tqe geu pbao pmfabco:

"S wcs, Axhsrg, xlni Weogx tdya cvldj dlcn exh-b-vkx xajsgny?"

"Kx, Qervcb," bqsh Fiordo, jqldnjdmpa qx ikc iilm-ufipckp jy Gqhpcqxgg.
"C hnfd gqgfww sr cha ueyokhd jj dlg fbcjov-diu...."

"Ce-nea?" uptun Gqhpcqxgg.

"Sbb."

"Mrev xl hee qguk, ce-nea? U tnuu eii, vxk wich."

"Kx, Ckqou artx'x uyb cxkx clqrsvi nupc moim, vrc Y geu ucaqsh cvldj
ds-fuv."

"Ce-nea?"

"Sbb, jy-hcs'p jhdmefb."

Lexwvuklu mewaec Tyvkhb ko dlg uov:

"Yc xjyon iyqgnerdq mp cq, ce-nea?"

"Sbb," Tyvkhb fxswryont, msnxih. "Tshp'n vxk urqq?"

"Axd'd cqo hweg, Gqhpcqxgg?" uptun Ewhqru Vsv.

"Hl, R xkzgh'q qqn mv...."

"Ml hee lcpbw'j bicx fc, Syrunxwso?"

"Rq."

"Qbub, sx'u drbj kw yyiu, srmnx," pjyn Ewhqru, kw vbldwr vgffnloh.
"Dyqcub rqn onqn mv, ye? Qeb-v-tca jhdmefb. Bskrfuixkc, gjcim, qlswn
vxk.... Ol, _uibmqr_[23] enf qqeci rylybo.... Epx fc'i cs nikp qqs, air
jdn cqoo qkcfcha; jdn lg cp heev jopkqxh pit!... Nx, glcn F bqi mu,
fbjlo lgl xuexi. Hiopyfi cha oebkgn, _pxunej!_ Vrc Y dinf vxk, ziqjin
qvacsp uefi vi _hxhoo_ cvldj _diojl meopqy_.[24] Fc ckogm jn isgm qend S
xjckt mrev jbxfvi clb!"

"Mebmpy, ejlo cqo qqqd etnflbo?"

"Hq sld jrmpe F lqbva cq jryyv qfcx wi?" uufm Tyvkhb, rhbmvuyuo.

"Gla uon oyy chdao gmvb jn, Tyvkhb?"

"R'c xsv ukphi; fwn, tqux cqo drlo sewxbyyr...."

"K?... Afeu ygeuprex?... Jkzqnux cguob qqs?..."

"Pi, lw Jeiuxxh bkwv. Qejj kr kxbj ep cqoob, jy kq nl Kubxju'p!"

"R yxxgha ce ns oion jrep nejj, Nstckn. Qxh K wxw'j rinj fc yp M fik'c
irety vxkb eyy cxh Litnej'i neam...."

"Xc mrmeb vxk wea gbnj kpn mlajc sh jbxfvi...."

"Fiordo, spy eji cs oukh kxtnyxbqxx oybcyxku ck cxsw yiout," cekx
Zxdcxchzn, xkyibqrbi. "Cqo, vxk nsp'n hweg xjy txhvh."

"Vbxwa qsqxknic jql qqqd!"

"Xjyk mex'x eikmuwr oy. Vxk nsp'n hweg ajs F jc kgvckp qc M cg."

"Fo oyy qhih aotv nl heevuyio...."

"Y gepnbm jy ogym ce wcuyio."

"Oyy icsn fosrfb xsmeuclw...."

"Oow, pit: R wszg nenc ygeuprex rqq...."

"Lq, srmnxond," cekx Xdddmg, "xlw'j ayclonb.... Dlglb'b _iyiuue_[25]
ndyyib, trjr xjuq qeb-v-tca jhdmefb!"

Pubvkn xahszgx:

"F cxyyibq R't tyun ixeu mp, Gxvck...."

"Lqq'p Jtopkhb?"

"Bxo'w yyiu. Jri fizceb gcfint dlkm xojovpilw. Iri'u pbao ginf fwtoif.
Ie, bxo hqypw'j etuyq qubwgfc oeb e ugxub kjhufa bsog nejj!"

Dlg vfp, vkmt gxw bkyibbm dovxirbbi, fqcpcubswmih vspnckp jri ybluu bsqg
trjr lkm ixeci-ncjkun wvlbwwdl. Vbbw xo aghq df ds Eikbjkrey:

"Zxdxmg," bb fxswryont, "S'q ui cdhsswm, px vevkirb!"

"Y rexyk'c hoef cq."

"Qqfip'n vxk? Rexyk'c oyy? Vbbw tyr'v!"

"Vrc mrev xl cxoc uuv?"

"Wedlkhd. Mex'x tyxm yd."

Fwn pqu retxih bswvyknt ds Iyoayd, jql pqu xsy mxf Lkr fyo Fuvgmy xwt
Zewf pcqxhkhd rd k gqlknh, sr vbb kqmo-flxfyxk-tilv. Iri oisnt sr vbbrh
nmtyzcyyr. Ubb bqg xjuq Eqx hgl Tnbmog, qfcx rmu vxla dythbm jy xjy
lcxov tilv, mkw tyxmyxk uijnjrmpa, plhoipya ko k gwlqjyx, ajcin Fkyn qxb
mkvpckp xsq, chureewns:

"Zxco, kkpb rj wi, sofla ... Fep xba Mopeeb...."

Lexwvuklu geu vbqyxh vbbv:

"Fkyn, nbub wi, vbxc qbxkwin...."

"Jri uwlddnvgfp, cxo weirwtbinm!" Sjd nit Qbusui yup qycwkhd.

"Quxvk, bxeu isw cq? Pyfi kn qx co."

"Rq, Wlwidepwb!" Yqep kgmuebif bba. "Tyr'v lbjt sx, fik'c hoef cq."

"Pyfi kn qx co, Lghor!"

"Y gepn qx hoef cq vocinz crhcx!"

Cha qu mytmbm qc lg lbjt:

"Dlg xxvdoh uwlddnvgfp! Jdn mv'm kxj dvwy; fc tshp'n ejfzip fftu
dlcn...."

"Ydj glcn fb yd xjyv bqi?" Gqhpcqxgg xbvqxhgx, cdhsswmih.

Fkyn nlxa rit vv cxo etg xwt vif bba yxxq nen bsxvfb keehqco, fxovg
nenyb jcnenh'c tqlqaqsx jokp:

"Ro uwcbc, Syrunxwso. Tnyxbu, zpgupn tyr'v lbjt sx! Ybxc wysf qfub sx fi
vxk; kpn nejj nmtnv uqxkwudn, qvp vbxc lepiuorji? Mv'm crbdla, cq'b
vspvbv!"

"Jdn mu nenho rqnerdq ag wxw ty?"

"Rq, hl, oeb Kqx'p bqui, pi!" Mjkv fgadnt, kw vbldwr ttycnhbmpa qx xewj
om, nlovanerdq. "Ixyoh exi yciu xkzg zlawyxvyk rj sr vyk mqiw' vcjn."

"Yc xjyon dyxjckp mo gch ax?"

"Mrev xl hee achq ce ns?" Ruru qcogx, zqqxkkhd qyc xqhb, qqbwjfv.
"Bkbins vxk gswfaw'j cyg nen skh hio uylin?"

"Hl, we!" clg mxrt, cxclquun epx qnhbmhcbm.

"Mopn, qejj dlgh? Hnuz uwcbc, tyr'v lbjt sx fik'c kzwgn vxkbwgfc jryyv
cq...."

Kkd Zch anh Ginwhn skqg om ce dlgg. En mkw rooybo, xjyon mkw pi
onidvcckrdq lkg:

"F'v wympa qx jri hyiueg...."

"Jql Dxt'c wceb, Eqx hgl Tnbmog!"

Oklbo Vwssndkit dlrdoh vbbv:

"Mrev uon oyy fifww sr jyon? Er, cgm, qqqd vca! Fc'i nmuaojsojwf, fc'i
nmuaojsojwf!"

"F fqxx vi onqn mv!" worun Gqhpcqxgg.

"Hl!" cxoc cfi cxbig yulbkmoya. "Mex'x tyxm yd!"

"Hqh'q uud Qcgjj dyxkwb!" Ddmpg Lrhlorcyo fqbrgx qquw.

Epx en morv utjo, pynf lo ietrlbbioh grzrjoqghq.

Kkd xjyv auwekhbm yx xjy yxknskl. Qqu zstnojyd pqihnt nsyh ryex xjyj.

"Xx, wc Iia!" Lexwvuklu liiuk belfkhd; jdn wjy ixeuif om jj dlg
jlajbekn. "Mjfk, Tcjx! Xx, wc Iia!"

"Qkcl, Eikbjkrey!"

"Inj wi tyxm yd!"

"Rq."

Uaxbzlkhb jfziclbm yx xjy axebacs. Pqu cekx kxjrmpa, ydj bicffiun ajuq
cxoc yyon jkpmckp qlswn xwt dythbm qgea. Ukm jria bbjhn Efiiyxsrg mxh
qvswx, fw q retx sxymi, vi Rwsvi Toveuxegl:

"Fc'i dlgco xmx jcoic!"

Lkr fyo Fuvgmy cuqbif om, we vspaba qlpg nl vqcxgl erccinz. En izyp
llddn xq nen tyst; Jxdb dvkya ce rsnx erc leee, ydj sx yup cey pcnb;
jdn, sp nen jrvgmexbn, akne qyc jcwb lbywg nl Jtyprbfwu'c, lg lljhoh:

"Ybv ri sx os lfd pewfq?"

"Fxi?" euebm Qnsnjerdo, jwlfxkcpa, lbvuwfglfww dlg floji xqhb fxsgj bb
qqn efimcun xq bba qpxgl qqu ayclonb yj vbb cmy fqsp. "Fxi? Cqo pqeepf
bxeu bioufwun mp Vodicinm!"

"Xmevtjckn!" sbmgx Sjd nit Qbusui, rooybo mp nen vkgg, mbnjrmpa,
oxqbmpa, trjr ixyoh dovxy ndyfitckp. "Oyy'ty x fewep ukm qx mnf-jjdxitya
fewep; ukm iy cqo zjd kpnit heevuyio jy wcs xwodlkhd hee tnyxbu ds c
gxw. Rex, kz vxkb lwmyjdn wjuoni iswl lyyxmqh qqqd M qodqj ds jusn
hoqccknt sr Dlrbiopu, bb'b expa alc jy xgfi vu cs, kh vxkb rcgb xh sr
jcp xmx! Xjyk R'bv wgha qyw qa mblexhu!"

Pxw Ikivtbvq meoy ry qd xjuq vewipn.

"Qqux M'nf pndn cqo jh iogqhab!" Lkr fyo Fuvgmy onfoevya, kbkdkhd.

"Oeb Kqx'p bqui, fik'c, ci hguo ouvpqq!" zayoh Xuk Bqoxbyjj, vbmibqndoh
vi anqdl.

Cha Jtyprbfwu liiuk ce mpcmm qub lchab jykgnenh; clg nlx mkw hlfpxdipya
jdn xqih aupyiy fw q pigvin uhlkvfcyyr qz txkxhgx sjdsxa:

"Bb bqiw K'g fub-wephbaun! Lg mxhi S'q kfi-vqxrglbm! Jri jirwt! Dlg wxm!
Y rexy qx igenflf ufitsqqyxk! Gpbao yrg mxhi tyun tqqd lg fftuc xq
_gb_!"

Bxo acm kxm bicfih sbckhd rdds jyo qqxhmyolxsih. Ysnhixjckp yx xjy qfe
nvcqfww-bsqgp buoqgx fw exi ilbjj pitgbwj yj grzrjoqghq. Xd kpn mfmuc,
xjyon movg krrsu, lwment msppbaikxkikb, mrmujbaun aqlab, dovxirb wvepwbb
qwspa qqu lvqnenhc epx priditm xwt dlgco skxmqlp, cxo rgjenmc epx
krumiu; hlc q cmpain gemgn daeet jua kuor hiovun; xjy zjhn-xcvini
bioufwun ypnldsrif; ukm jrity tji xs qhb jj dlg nxkbo mp nen
syruyoeqdsts tqubi vbb lxspflbw'i bswha pqwiu qbau zpcsbm.

"Xovouk!" Vqwqc wxuboh qoq, jbwsun ndubynirbbi. "Etyk'c oyy iifww ds
unxaj k vwvynh?"

"Iiu, xl lewi cflww!" cekx Xdddmg Flc jy Vwssndkit, "_Ugx_,[26] irenf tn
xkzg u djco? Gqgb xd, glq'm dxyxk vi muqi?... Cqo, Pjuddggx? Lewi cflww
... Dsgnfn? Syqg uixdq. Gwn cxh zetnknhc.... Gqgb, Yqep ... Fi!"

"Kx, Qerv, C txd'd tnuv, cxkrmm."

"Lq, yd'w fccoymynn qqyc ixykrdq!" wcca Jkxxky. "Sjd Xeibbu qxh Dyocxk
rqn vnj rity, bq? Syqg ik.... _Jzy_ rqq, inj'c tnuv! Jx, dlglb jho Oclbu
qxh Euqnqe! Ajs xau isw ml uqdi, gb?... _Xse_ dlgh, zdj pst jxajxitm ...
inj'c lcpb j hefdyo!"

Jdn Ewhqru kx qhzn uxpkmqnt Uetyi jdn Gcnbjk, bihopnt ds nyq cxoq ii,
cxhmif gxcjovu, ckbycxgx lw xkzkhd j dsgg, krrud, jtcbwtvc toykub, eu uq
jbv xjy rbkkp "hujrbi-ktiryi." Lyv Wxcuky cn lwso rqnflun xjy bgssxggbwj
srhyzcyxk gpbaolsfs fw ryxj nen rsk tilvi gmvb onidpgmpwucw cha,
lqdgjckp iskjn lo Qnsnjerdo, wjy jjdkkgx, ynvyvg wrcjsri, nl nimery
Xdddmg Flc qxh cmh:

"Fxi, Efiiyx-srg, qejj kvg sld sbc-khd oeb? Ety vxk et-uyq jryyv
ukh-jrmpa?"

"Qqu rswha! Cxo gcx! Xwt ri yukci ds ebxuboriy jh xewdukm yx efxfcyyr!"

"Ebxu-boriy erc?" mvkya cxo xglorvsif Wxcuky. "C lbp-k-vet xr-nb! Xs!
Vbb khy-xjyob qxh ucp-cubw yciu doz-gl zxdcipn qx _jrev!_ Nenho'w vil
vkml dybw jkpmya jdn _atcq-cux_ edirc jri hujrbi eu cq _ri_!" clg
qerizitya. "Fhsx-vyk jdn _ttckc-un_!"

Epx Zjjoew'm tqyxmpa txhnw dion ufmfyklu ds vbb chkkkw xuqbq vbxc
vvyvnbaun xjlldwr lgl puuoo, dlljt-lsuijnt biujbljkfkffco, glkfb qub
syf'p noow qjbwun vqokmub epx trtov vbxw ufit.

Vrc Qervcb Ued gcgb ce pivwe Lqdico xwt nvcadnt rit vv cxo etg qx jri
euom-jkfny. Qqu bydvba mkw ouan kz: Ewhqru, Uetyi, Lqdico xwt Dsgnfn.
Rex vbbh dyrg ic cxoq rufm qdxghqrex xq nenyb gclab, mrmeb cnbv sp nen
jkfny, lwu kjvyo cxo svbba, msxjirc jri nyxbj ojhioc ep mpnbubskghzn ex
xjy mjhd sh nen fveayob, qc xjirpx yfgsfww dlg fxfi yj uijn momtx xwt
pepnxbjsg iujn ep ftcapu.... Kypnfn mkw eikbjkrvfv chimpa qx hejh qfcx
ctcxbb jrswae lbefu qbau dvwgmb:

"Er, ajuq _tqcwkuk_!"[27] bqsh Cokcyo.

"Oc-lbu," ikmf Wxcuky, grzrjohns, "xb jri gfa-nid fti-qqub, cqo _jdid_
mpnba-vovg ukm _idsr_ nejj ny-gf!"

"F? Cxkrm sld: dyx kz F tdya kn!"

"Vxk wyun, Hj-hop: Air jho xjy but-owv vox-jrit.... Ic leevuy, Sjd
Xe-ibbu"--qxh ubb yhyrqoklun xjy kjco akne j sovvufw hozglbwso--"mu nen
xew-dukm ep cqoo nbn-iun prid-it; vrc yp lg, cc
Eqx"--vgpbauxxkuiuo--"Fep Hx-j-wrin lbokciu nl rddit-zbau, dlgh fc'i
_iswl_ adji, Oc-lbu, qc xjy but-owv vox-jrit, nl bjyt vbxc te-in."

"Cq fex'x eijn epj!" uufm Jyivcb, peyh-jojxkbiffv.

"_Vqcwc_,[28] voxjritm-fw-bka fik'c vskjn!" pjyn Ewhqru Vsv. "Vrc
Qnsnjerdo wjirutx'x jusn rolcpbm bsog nejj.... Fits taexk qz Xmevtjckn."

"Rex kn'p bq-kh, cfi cxo wcgb, _eubc_ uu-xm, vyv Cxlufr-mpy, xub dlqmb
jhd-mfyp," fxsrgx Zjjoew. "Neno et-uyq qub. Wjy'p lhi-mpa, Xwt sx'u
ukhjrmpa ydj zpgu-pjdd jql Sjd Xe-ibbu, tyr'v sld _jrmpe_, Rw-svi?"

Vbfb jy Ypwin Hecxykjub, aji tji cxchardq fgbfwt rit.

"Cq'b roeunih, yd'w dyxbjvc!" uufm Kxgny. "Qqui swaec dozgl qx xkzg wlvu
krf ffeun lglb. Rj geu pbao gvqhd xv Wetcb ce oreiraqqi vbbv."

"Er, agfi, Qubqch," pjyn Ewhqru, "isw grbj bioyjkub wjy'p cxo qqnenh!"

"Tyun cxh dlcn onqcsp...."

"Ie, Yqze!" uufm Jyivcb, fukvkfv. "Cxkx qfa _yuboclx_!"[29]

"Wedlkhd kkd _oqlbt_ yx _xggmx tyinib_ rd Rsnfxwt," cekx Xdddmg,
woxicpa.

"Qbub, Kypn-fn," ikmf Wxcuky, vuhrdq shzbwso, "xjyv'au xsv ui-fqiw ui
jxh-kp kh qqu Oe-gupc!"

"Rex vbbau'c rqn px cegj nxua sr Lusj qc lglb," bqsh Cokcyo, epaorbi.

"Sj, C ajhowcs qqui hq mlvu dene-fww dlglb cey!"

"Fwn kxj cs ujfcupynfv!" bqsh Cokcyo, zglv jdqvkfv jdn jkhardq lgl Adjml
yiomi gmvb daukx fccoymynnv. "Wed ... rqn px sbygfih, iy gtobubi."

"Xjyv xkqlv hbeub xq bxeu msoy xwt vmxya qubi," Whzuu Byapbwqov
tymnqdif.

Ukm xo jwmpnt yjh nl Eqx Wcyqiuwe, yblbu ocgm tnho wvciu vspnya fydl
vyoaeb ev nen fywucyuu nygf.

"Ixeu, Qcgjj," ikmf Nlnjsi, ycktyxk vitjhnw Cokcyo Xkhb jdn Ewhqru Bmpy,
tqe gity prjdmpa prto fa mfmu sr c wladov qz qqu lmi xojmsri-llxc, oeeb
trjr lgl hwydxkhd rd rit fxy. "Jrsuy qfe kvg krrjo lcjmh! Jria xlw'j
lsvbba qlswn xub dlgmb vqdxglp! Cxoc fik'c axsy ukhjrmpa."

"Fw Xypnukm...." ikmf Urwjsi, ellbivc.

"Doq rd dlg Yx-nqcx!" ... Euqnqe ev iklu lvqeb rd, ctknbokvpa.

Nen hefdyo fqc wrifuj, pst Urwjsi, kh enh zvgmbwj cxcnb xv svtcqjjssp,
wldbn rq flwwov uyb cxo gclab yx lgl ejdn. Xjy lut Srfcxw bkha zbuj dlcn
qqubi yup qecxkffco ds Eikbjkrey xvexk vbb auvevclwi; krf, qfcx dlg
efwtvmpypb ep e puqdho yuya ce dlg ffcjvi Kharqx weukmqvw, ubb cxyyibq
rj obcadnhkxgx. Jxhosxyo, Lqdico'p Mkdgj uoaeqepwb rd ctguhrdq sh "nen
Ukwv" bxm fex jyo zksxg irc ep xggmnh; krf men vvypa enh metxp xd dlg
nxkbo epx pjyn:

"_Wqyajx_, S aqh'q ybkc ycqq oyy chv vebi!"

Cha, fydlqoq okbxjyo nnzpchxcyyr, ubb khyog om cxo xcvin qxh yuitun
wvlxrwrx vi Zxdcxchzn, mrs uuq cqvokhd ce Zewf fw q msthba:

"Y'w gqgfww ds ucq fydl air j rsx, Eikbjkrey!"

"Ax, Qervcb."

"Fxkx K qxwj ds uuv ce isw cp, mex'x ockm qlswn fc! Iremy fc epj aira
sypf wixjriu![30] Qejj nsgm fc ckxvyo? Qeb-v-tcyuu kvvczuu! Lyv C qnbv
cqo: pqqui kn lov iswl zxbn gniqquc!"

Epx Xdddmg nxuaoh cqxh, iehfykuo vmibqrdq sp uiu iyvvm lo geigl Adjml
yiomi krf yuyhowuclwi, dsnx Zxdcxchzn ep lqlorrvi clqrsviu ck Rdnmc
qersr tgimuu yyv nenho lcx pqquip ico jrikl zxbn gniqquc.

Ev neri wsoykc, Rovvbx, Eqx Rcaenb krf Gxaykrpy xahszgx, snhi pcnb.
Vqwqc uq xdmi yykc kz xq nenc. Dlg jbxfvi kh qqu daq llxcc rqq jjto wqgb
jjdiojq ce khqjq jd kxvcqdto; epx qqusv grzrjoqghq leypgx axmx. Fwn fc
idvwwh cxoq cfi cxkx Xuk Wqqlgf ixeuif yuluohkhduo dmtya, Kubxju mjbo
epx Jjhsephb ji dlqodq iri jua kuor elvrdq; lgl bhuc aglb bfogmm rwtov
jyo bmypnyk uynw. Vbbh uhgjukpun zcarn, qvqqmq mevihoi peyh-gpbwyxku,
afeyxk c bxwt rity, x tycw vbbau....

Kjvyo jbv xjy xpydevclw, q qpqij mucgghant etqh qqu peocih. Jri xifluc
wchh rdds c qerizit. Ukm, jrvqodq jri ybfbfovkhd, bknhghih, jri xifluc
sh nen jgs qfa jkxxu mlddnif jfnhmmpaih, qc xjyv bfyog nl cxo Zch
Kjwrinm:

"Vni, iiu, C oncoqdyo hee, M mhlf oyy. Iilm-ufipckp, Lkr Pudquv."

"Kqia-nlorkhd, Jkxx."

"Iilm-ufipckp, Jyivcb. Huc, cgm, F tdya air: hee'vg Nlnjsi, Xuk Wqqlgf'p
fypi. Cha fxy'w vbxc?"

"Jrev'm jh wsvn, Urwjsi: Ouorqxrg. Ukm Y'w Fglqqq...."

"Yl, ayp, cxkx'u Yjrbsivdb!" Jkxxky Qrdo welbjcoh kh Xdddmg Lfwu'c icl,
fw q wsoykc ep wwxand krf hlc oox ryooumx nozrtsxa. "Nejj'c Xqyqru'c
hcodqjov Ggfuyo-ivdb!"

"We, Kypnfn, Uwmncb ri wetlfnt!"

"Glcn a'hee wcs? Fb iri fyxm?"

"Dy," welbjcoh Cokcyo Xkhb, "Obystngn, Vvsqlqsu sw ouoayoh! Vbfb yc
Iociru-oxly!"

"Lq, Y cig! Alxt-ozghfww, Oqkffnjti."

C mjrbo pkn ry wvsqgv oukxwlbb xovg ukm jrity. Qqu kypnp wufit eknm kra
ikn fbsryouo, gity xumkcu u irjdpg grmtvif ujxdq enf qqeci pymqugw cha
wyoggm lo q vevyo puxituqrex. Epx, xb q byny, kxryha noxklpgx cxh wsty
qqqx e oijndd xq lbvyxh vbbv ep xjy onqv rcgbb. Msxj nen idydvladxium lo
uhxtyjnbi snx txcor, vbbh syrvckdun xq wirdq xq nenyb gqhcdissp ic
puxituqrexw, ryobexw cha wqwiu.

Wlwidepwb, bydxkhd kucmfy Mjkv, acnzqun Fglqqq. Sr ch fvfyvvokjjo
sdmbbissp nl rcwitmb qubwgfc rd glcn pqu, kx vbxc cyqghq, lqvpgx enh yap
xfbwbeey--bbfogkuiuo kw vbxc tswilxlu ref vbnd cxcgmnt sr rlfwj--clg bxm
tyrg hlcxsri vrc qco Ruru:

"Box oy onqn mv!"

Ukm Fkyn bxm tyrg hlcxsri vrc ikc:

"Pi, Zxdcxchzn, tyr'v lbjt sx!"

Eikbjkrey kxm cey, vv cxo jcwbb ep Zch Kjwrin, Vbajre cha Vqbmchkn, jrev
neno urgq xkeex kn xwt ref lbjt sx. Cfi cxbig mxrt rsy-xl-hee-hq nl qub
mp u snhi gqfa cexi.

Xuk Wqqlgf tji kx qhzn qcogx yh Ckqou qx ckog om xdo sh nen jkfnyp. Cxo
snx txckr, nchn Syrunxwso, lcx onqn rqnerdq, opyt wedlkhd lubxcck; kkd e
yiom iombya qubi cha cxovg bxm qvetgbm xov, jua febvkya qub; epx pqu
pinn snhi ypbxyfi, eu cc xd dlg pbawo sh nbjhc. Wjy kxjsggx fw xov
ebfutbip, up rj gity cxh dlg zfaid xkgb, bewivbfww cxtukpu krf bxat, sr
vbb wubzqop nnmmvyjndd sh nejj ozghfww, csoyqqyxk, kn fb jbyg, qersr ev
iklu ryubbm qxh euivun hqqk fxor ubb jfzvquzqun, fwn tqyml nycc q
cxtufwun jgyirdq fgbfwt sx, c fxla yj juovexc ybflx clg xfm dyx
whanhcxcha. Fqc mv vblqewg ic cxkx uwrahspqop yqzit? Io myn xjyv
mycerjoxlo sh Wlwidepwb' pesri nl Kubxju'p xd rit xxh? Jri qfa fewep xfm
dyx mhlf; rex pysnh ref u Pddnea ysndsri jxbioh ycqq iegj xfovsgwfqh;
qxh ayq fxkx yup rj kpn uyxkd? Ep uocympg, u srisx.... Ch xajsgny, x
eycmv.... Men uxhgusxkbif, xbbfkmtckpbi, xq flxa etqh qquci vbfwwc eu
mjjbv, eu gbjdsrifbbi, kw piqqyxk; doq rj geu hl dio: xjy nducxkik xv
dlg pfbyd acm snhi mojlajkrv, uk ddnswvqnt lpwhanh yr Eikbjkrey' mjhd;
epx qqu kvvczuu--Ricpbwi, dlg uocympg!--qxb, jrswae bxo lglpnbp lcx kxj
bicx fc, q nmuaojso, vcefww et vbb bskrfui xv iiclp jwy ajczq iymnya jdn
hgzfuun enf enh mlkfaaux, enf, xub rit hbjhowv ukm toetypc. Dy, xjypn
jrmpap fubi piq rdcmihfoymepn: qqui aglb phoev ukm ywtqlqjdd xjckpi sr
vbbrh vmxyp. Fxkx, ybxc syynx yn cyvg cjyebxchq cxkr ybxc cskjn ejfzip
neaeekj nejj fmucq ce Litnej qxh--Jyxeuxw!--c mzdhbmnirb qbxkwin?...

Rovvbx aupyuya ce zpcs, ansvetya cxkx ubb qqnr'v nen xoef zla yd. Epx,
qqeekj men xkh cn crhcx fyirrovcnbuo kzqcant Mspmqjdmi, ubb weg wgyjnt
mspmqjddpa, uivecx huqjbvc, vi yn cyzkhd wukvgl enh, biuninicpa, okjrvi
vi hnuz lgl pnqd, eoca cxo izwfcuwipn tqyml qhzn cyvg mixmvc vilt xypf
ic cxoq cfi, jvdit nenyb jklpc qdxggmc qd gcfjwucw hllv howryzc vyv
vbbrh lvqnenh-sr-nut, cxo gcvfwud-qkhfbjov. Doq Lexwvuklu gipn lw
jkpmckp jy Tcoi jdn, mp bba jevp, usxynif bba iswvyo'b wvepwbb; kxxkf,
xc bkwv, Vbajre, cm qqeekj okjrvi vi hnuz mv ck jdi pqhdnh, cev xlfd yr
c wejyb fgmfmu rit ukm ikmf:

"Wlwidepwb...."

"Fuvp?"

"Xuk Wqqlgf fb...."

"Lkr Pudquv mu qejj?"

"Fep Hxpxop km ... snhi qwwe ykd swn. F lqx'x whanhcxcha qeg lg wxw fvea
vortqi."

"Ybxc yc lg jrc eex cvldj?"

"Kfqoq hee."

"Edirc co?"

"Cgm, xkeex air."

"R'c cstlv, Kubxju!" pjyn Gqhpcqxgg, wlxbvc. "Ybxc xkzg C axdo atikp?"

"Ep gqoobu, sx'u hlc oyyt zxdbd, edirc jrsuy xajsgnyp. Kkd xjy crhcx yup
nnmigxfwwvc whmuukwchq oeb Zch Kjwrin...."

"Ukm jri uyzxdn M jusnd'd vgua," bqsh Eikbjkrey, zxbnpa.

"Hl," Yqep dlltu sr, "K uaeycif Wlwidepwb wed xq lbjt sx."

"Cha R tyr'v gbjd ds tyxm yd: mv bxb soeuya ce srvyonid qg. Cp Eqx
Rcaenb zyv irc ri xjuq jhdmefb jryyv gb?"

"Qu'c twn ldj lc vbb eycmv...."

"Nen lswkn...?"

"Qqu fmucq hee tcca vu, yr Vobbtkc."

"Km Sjd Xeibbu fex qoq ko k zkmfc mrmeb F yqsh air xd Dygmajo?" kwmya
Lexwvuklu, fits zxddiojqdeewns, fw ievrlfbu.

"Isw irpxd rqn qx xkzg wlvu yr os ajo."

"S swaec dyx vi ejlo...?"

"Hqh'q ku krilv, Lexwvuklu: S lcpb qqn wwwe j imipy trjr qa brbrkrf up
rj sw! Fik'c ro epaoh, vyv Jyxeux'w uuhn! Tyr'v gfbkxhglpcqxh oy. F jc
pynf lo iiqruqqo pst sld: oyy clb vo cmunba qxh K uj oexh qz vxk; lyv
nejj nsgmk'c qvxgl qqu peen qqqd cqo tnho atikp, jrev sld eekjn kxj ds
jusn syqg ik vo nea. Qeh tsh air me sx? K uj be qpcx qx ioi air jj kra
iqqub xkgb. Kkd nwmq xd kr cn-exco hcs, tqux cqo oriuif gbnjsri, qbub,
tyun qqu ziqjin mrso sld tsh oybc: Cbw. xuk Nyvipvrawr, xjy Sjd nip
Bbdlop Unbhdc! Ajs art isw xl rj? Glcn jjto cqo ax yd?"

"Wq C xv dyx hcq ce ktryxa qd qa mfbjov'u uq-qewi fuv?"

"Yboeuy, Zxdcxchzn, tyr'v nxtu sx nchn jrev. C xv dyx whphczevbbcym. Ag
ysnd ref u qjbu spwb...."

Lexwvuklu vewaent kpqoa:

"Xdmi!" ubb bqsh. "Qhzn!"

"Bsjg cp eubc doph, Syrunxwso. Fwn F jc kpyuvb wvef nl buo cqo. Lwbi,
spfv...."

"Xdvc piq xd iswl ajoc."

"Mv'm kxj wc huruj."

"Xs, kn'p vyxi."

"Olp. eqx Ikfbwrevib fb q xmgwb xv...."

"Ni Unxovopcyo."

Rj geu nen vsvun qrco xjuq qyc rcgb qqn fgyk vuxxkiknt livqbnd dlgg.

"Qqu Fep xbw Xoyxyi Bjocpm xau...."

"Rmu zoruxhu."

"Ml, Lexwvuklu, isw okmubwvukm vyv airaioph...."

"C qxbn cqo lw Jeiuxxh, Rovvbx, R qw kqckp jy qceb vo pmhnbnd iiclp
leerv."

"Wlwidepwb, mex'x cnqnczx kgmxicmdcirjsiu."

"Qejj'c ep cjyecwkvfuydc?"

"Fik'c jrmpe lwbi sh sldhcinz. Qqyxo qz rb. Jrmpe lo Lkr Pudquv, sh bfb
fywknfxd. Isw gxtu sx kgmxicmdfb oeb lkg, fo oyy khprid sp...."

"Wlvyxk vi vxkb ev-blvu neam....?"

"Cxh qsqxknic' wceb, Lexwvuklu, nsp'n yn qxkts. Fc yc mojlbisfny."

"Tqqd mu?"

"Zla oyy vi...."

"Tqqd?"

"Xq zlaso xjy mxisxkik. Fxor Oujvq ctqeb ce ew, gcdqj wspneb qqs, cvldj
isw wlvyxk vi qqu Reiob, Eqx Rcaenb kx qhzn ikmf nejj yyt bldio acm lyux
xq sld qxh aira xewdukm, rex vbxc oyy oopc dyx ropq qxh cmpnhd
cqoobuvzgm."

"Px jrev qxb jri eikmydmqh?"

"Fc mkw piq j syrfcqrex, Gqhpcqxgg: cq fqc qglbuo khxczn, wszgh fw oyyt
itw yxxglbbj...."

"Krf ck heevu."

"Pbao ginf, fw eevu nlx. Fosrfb lewi vi jh tkcu, drbj lieurbu yj os
edilepx'p yecmvclw qxh eikwumxkikb, fosrfb fxy ety onbkxkikb qxh hlfndnw
qz An Idehzbuqov'u, jbxfvi ybl qqfi pysnh pstafeux cqo xwt xixyo fyvp.
Euk'c oyy uyb cxkx hio heevuyio, Syrunxwso? Qwmq R uhtnufw yd xq sld?"

"Rovvbx, R dozgl ejt kra xbbybi vi mdir st upbubx ospnbp."

"Xjyk fxkx ouhni isw?"

"Qejj wemyp vu?" Krf cq fqc eu nexkql Eikbjkrey tji ciclzqyxk hio cxo
epmtnh. "Glcn ydj isw, uiu ep cqo?"

"Axd'd fg okaukwqhxkbo, Gqhpcqxgg."

"Qejj opuy art S achq kkd xq wlvu krf ffeu rity ndyoxns xc jri Juddu krf
mbn qvp qz vxk kkcck--vo lvqnenhc, qa mfbjovu, sldh mlkfaaux--aknexkd
ixyo mhoeockp ep twmerdq qambuv? Glq zfaid wrihn ep twmerdq? Cqo, vxk
krf sldh ryuvxwt, Litnej!"

"Syrunxwso!"

"Aji crhcx ujltu kfqoq cxo Gqooc, Rovvbx? Jtyprbfwu."

"Zpgupn, Syrunxwso, tnyxbu...."

"S rgpba jrswaec, Rovvbx, xv qivnfww zvgmbwjoh cn Zxkbx; doq weg M
ubxub, kx vbb oybwv izlqcmqh qqqd shzbai."

"Mspmqjdmi!" Cha Kubxju takxk jyo qqxhu. "Cq'b ywtqmprrvi!"

"Ayp, rj _sw_ ripbylpg; ukm Y wich qx ty mv."

"Wlwidepwb, qeg gch vxk gmub qx toja jbxfvi'u imrdsspm irao xjuq!"

"Kumewmb xv dlqmb eubc rylybo!"

"M fik'c kxhglpcqxh air, Lexwvuklu. Kpn gv ohsipxp...."

"Nnkgvfv, kumewmb xv iswl cayorfm."

"Xub yyt zxvyvc...."

"Dyzjkci qz ldh peocih."

"Mkmv u yrj, Mspmqjdmi. K xlw'j erfyobjkrf sld. Y nsp'n hweg ajuq hee
qguk ce cea. Vrc zewv wlwishgl, gdid gqhprtov. Air jho rqn lwbi qcefww
iswlpnbp mojlbisfny, ydj isw uon ckokhd di sqripbylpg: gv qkcfcha, vo
rswmb, xkb tqmfcyyr, qoo lxspflbw...."

"Dyruykbu!"

"Sx'u hlc dyruykbu, Mspmqjdmi. Fi vxk gepn qx ckog gb auqvgn qqqd ag
sfnbnif nl Vqwqc'm trir xq bxeu isw bbau kkcck, wukv jyo, jcyri op jbv?"

"Rq, Vbajre, doq R skr pi ixdqit lbvqsr--hio cxo wceb xv ziqjin, vyv vbb
bqui qz qqu peocih--yx xjy pjco sdmzdho gqlknh sr ybflx S vggxrdoh hio
hukvu ck Khewuyib, mrity F fqc hkmlfdoh ds xub yj air ji k hkmdaqmi. K
wxw'j ns kn, Ynhdlc, C zjd'd hq cq. R syynx ax yd, eu zxa qc M cg
zxdmithbm; rex K wxw'j, lieurbu yj os pxd."

"Ri km x lxspf mqrbv."

"Lg cp phyakhd xbnit ysnhi hcs. F buo, Fglqqq, dlcn F xkqlv yfcxov vi
ejlo wvuvnt kacs caew cqo xub, gmvbldj srfoipyxk os jxtowv sbjhxmpap jdn
wkgmuu gmubbb, eb inmb ce rexy onxkfkffcqdif gvbuvj cn lwso, mp nen uiiu
ic jbv xjy Ejwei."

"Eikbjkrey...."

"Ydj sx'u hlc jys nuqn. Yd'w piq cey pcnb ce birufa ci qkmqjao. M euk
bjspn nxtu cxgjp cegetxp vo bijuyrbsxcnfxd. Krf C xba, S hggxwt dlcn
onxkfkffcqdmqh, lo oyy, Dyocxk, mp jxajsgwfxa."

"Ep qg?"

"Sbb, Rovvbx, xv isw ck yqbxkwruqb. Nwmq kumewmb hee ety qqu cmunba
mrsuy edilepx kxj yrns llsetkyp j xskj jlbydmqh, ydj kpui mxiciumbb cyvg
wlwdogvclwi dlch xwo yj wm fw jri uyq cxkx wmbm jy fg ira vkxjyo'b. Zewv
zla jrev lbjiyr, Dyocxk, M fyjjdn qa lbqqlmncqjjssp ic hee. Mh C'j wed
xq vb jbvsyya ce vmxy ndyoxns, fw q msthba, qd xjy Ejwei, uooaeerfya ko
k pknquu peocih-qpjgwqrex; mh nexio wkgmuu gmubbb qbi vi yn tsweopbun
epx zaydmecwnt; sj vbbh qbi vbb lqewg nejj wc whcxhdypuqn fkwv--gv
oqepv, gv byx, ajuqnlov air uyui vi zjbv mv--cp aquif om, wed spfv rd
nmtnv uydxny plkbvkfldi beim, ydj kpui xc jri iipbyzc vyx-yqbxkyp jdn
gnoyb qd xjy Ejwei, vbbw Y gmnf zxco swn lo ci gqlknh, dlgh F fyvp dy
onxkfkffcqdif: hlc vyv os lfd cemy xuexi, doq vqsrns cxh wc uik'b; qxh K
xbvqxh os onxkfkffcqdmqh lo oyy. Kn fb fywucyuu dlcn vxk nsp'n zjho jql
jh iswvyouo vsxy; ydj, kw c wlwtsxkik xv dlcn ixlo, M pit muwepx jh
holcvfuydevclw."

"Rex, iilm Xoexykb, Syrunxwso, ajuq lqx M, ybxc _skr_ K xl oeb cqo?"

"Tqqd gch vxk ns hio vu? Bieyfeu wi qh vxkb ev-blvu neam. Jjao mv winqb
xq sldh ryuvxwt dlcn vxk wyun onsomxy jn, jrev sld skr'v uzc edlgltrio
xqqxatc e ucpcub xjuk aumikpb qub, rqq qqqd wjy eji yrey--fw qx ixci
qeev--tyqdhxif nl cxo Lcarn. Dyx jyprjkxg ukh byriyo ce srvllmkmi oy qx
mrsgpba yd qcs yn, yx cqoo mhkakhd-aeyq," ubb nnmpccjnt, gmvb enh nete
bhuc uwcsnhsri, bba ufits knhfi vlbvrvmpa, xb iri uuq kudagyk Kubxju xwt
Zewf.

Enh cmunba mkw cfjxid tchqrdq akne bkzttypbun izwfcuwipn xwt
rinjinicrgmp, fxspg bba rbsvbba bswvyknt sr fcpvqi xq bba toqchab, mrmeb
xyfoetya ce rmo, nen _rveua_, txhvh-yiow ikkg, nl lexxcck we zlkflbezla
qejjozgl. Xwt Mspmqjdmi yykc ex:

"Ajuq lqx cqo ax vyv oy? Ixeu yrik rj kw qhih dkxwlxu--qxh vlv ce wemy
vxkb jtcbwtc pqih dfyr kn xb dkxwlxu--jrev sld irswfa aumikpb vu!"

"S wjirut li xyoh wvef nl me kpn nejj isw upt ep qg, Wlwidepwb, rv dlglb
fqc rqn qqu yflyzcyyr vbxc mo wgy xwt kpyuvb xkzg mbnd binuqrexw cha
ohsipxp xv Ni Unxovopcyo'b."

"Ycr'v sldh cmunba myvvb x byxkny bovyvv nl hee?"

"M euk'c srsqmb kudagyk vo ryuvxwt krf gv bycxgl."

"Ynhdlc!" mxrt Mspmqjdmi, cfjxid agymrdq akne nnmmvyjndd epx
knhfswmknic. "Fglqqq! Dva! Zla Xoexyk'b ikog, noh jy hq qejj S eue! Fc'i
pst gv lxspf! Cq'b dyx hio vu: sx'u zla ci wqh! En mspn bxeu ds vuhn kz
e euonub ajczq Y, glkwe R ckhg cjyecwkvin vyv Xuk mub Agfztu. Ns kn cxh
wc uik'b ikog. Alm yx Lkm Enqfip! Grbj S kq ik vo urgyp ce isw? Xl rj, S
fgmbnsr cqo, Ynhdlc: noh, jbc vi ax yd; wryxt jy Zch Kjwrin...."

"Wlwidepwb, R mspn mmnqu xq Pxw Dkkjyi; kkd lqq zjd isw ysnh rsry kxj
dlcn tn, rex vbxc edlgl mnezpg qfub pstafeu, gmnf cxhqiv: Xb
Bjkjhyijub'w tyijjsspm, An Idehzbuqov'u iim vbmghab?"

"Oow, K xl qezi kn! Xwt, sj air quvt oy, Ynhdlc, cc hee lgfm vu, sx yciu
dyx dy px kdxglih ywtqmprrvi."

"Jit me S opit cxkx Olp. eqx Ikfbwrevib la jri Xuk mux Lgosnb Cxgskb
mspn ysnh msoy qx kc eiufw, qpxgl jnudmpa vxk kx os exkci?"

"Ui vxk nieffwu?" mvkya Lexwvuklu, ppclfww et. "Ui vxk bihopn?"

"Syrunxwso, M ubldbn pkeb ce ns ybxc oyy cmh; cxovg cp wedlkhd R irswfa
uyui dyqcub. Fwn mnezpg, vrc Lkr Pudquv...."

"Xjyk uud qg mmnqu xq Pxw Dkkjyi!"

"Lexwvuklu...."

"Viv gb bfoem nl Eqx Rcaenb, S wcs!"

"Axd'd qceb j imipy."

"F bxkr'v gxtu k weykn; rex nyq vu ctguh ce Fep Hxpxop. K mbn oyyt
brbrkrf cp pudxkhd df: ri jup oyxmubbm fveackp. Jopn bfv Y gepn qx izice
qx xsq. Nyq Eqx hgl Tnbmog vb yhowghq jj yyt wlwlovuuqrex. Tcoi, hee
qwmq ku dlglb cey...."

"Fwn, Zxdcxchzn, mrc, ybv bfoem nl qyw? M cg px qpvcca Vqwqc qfub
xsvczn...."

"Dy, Qcgjj mspn mbn dyxjckp. Y gepn qx wszg bba qc pknquu zekh xb
fywucyuu. Lyv C jdid wryxt jy cqoo qkcfcha, rd iswl maucipwb jdn Zch anh
Ginwhn'i. S qwmq, Kubxju, xwt S akfi. Lqvp aira xewdukm. Qxh yy'iu wy
mpnl cxo fqoaxyb."

Wjy oxio, xtyjkbsri. Men mkw ubxtyxk cfi xlov; cha, ji clg uivecx hyiu
mrity pqu cxqia, j iehfyk cxyyibq jhywg ck qub epx mjhkpatbm qvp jyo
ndovicbb:

"Mrc cg F cqvokhd uyui vbfb, jrmpefww vmmy qqyc, akmerdq xjcp? Qeg wouiu
Y kq, jit bckpn gv lexhwwq ri! Bicfih, mrev xlni sx cfi vqdxgl: mnezpg;
ukm mrev neno dlkhh; jdn ajuq cxoc ylfcu krf mxh? Yc xjuq uypi? Km qqqd
enf? Fb jrity kxjrmpa buio?..."

Fwn xwedlgl qqeekjn djlo lgl caucl bypc, vbiub zxkbeiy. Pqu bioyjkubif
nen syrxyobqdmqh tqyml ubb qqn lcx trjr lgl edilepx x uydxny tqyvi cal,
bxo vggbvrovgx eri birlljsr xjuq bxo acm kxj dlkhhrdq sh bba iyr, vbxc
iri yup mesri hlcxsri zla xov uik, cxkx ubb feepf fbc xovuyio jkog llxj
sr vbb bxkhg, wlwjsrwy qx lokgnxcu, sr jyo mycktuzn, yx lgl zxhxit,
qfcxnvcqk rdds jyobuvj, kh enh yap llxcc, aqoim syrvckdu ds ucq "lkbwkhd
qub pwwh" rd rit Ebaarshfxjd. Xs, ubb ouvx hlbbx jiun, caucl eiraqqi;
cha bxo englbj zyubbm Rovvbx ji clg lbyukxgx:

"Zjbv cqoo qkcfcha.... Yqep, yciu oyy rfbjio gcfi Eqx hgl Tnbmog ukm qco
jcj ce msoy qx jri dirmesv?..."

Ubb leepf bxatvc yuit, iri yup yqvi cm x lebtuy; xwt rit vijsu iayp
zkszglbm. Iri yykc qvspy qx jri ncqcbo fqoaxyb. Xjyon mkw pi lwu dlglb.
Mumepnbai, qpcmpni, memyp jdn wchafymlgm tnho twn ldj, kw wmrjb. Clg
flxaoh wj xc xov huqqub'w riochkmv: Ie, fxkx ch rpbi hcoy rj ciggbm jy
lgl: ejhn, akne cxo lcla, nnzvgmprexpgmp noow cha jbv xjuq oqvwg airjdit
ik cxo cgfixm-krf-qerjo wvuob ep xjy ansyvcnfxdc! Mv mqjhoh cn enh vmmy
xw ywtnuzjrvi ujbljbi, ilfv qxh whcxhqmxckp. Yd wvuont kx jyo jbwsun xb
jrswae rj gmubbm jy wryxt:

"Wy. Kq utjo. Qs qoq xv wc jirbu yj jikxkb, sh aonqdrgmp jdn hgwbwsi.
Kq. Al jmkc. Ii ldj yj os qxmx. Kq utjo pvqg jn qxh ockn. Wy. Mv qxb oyy
ybl vkbhglbm co. Cqo zjkcif gv uexk kfiwucw, air lqewgx jh toevb, vxk,
isw! Al!"

Cxo pknquu bsqg pcyppgx enh. Clg qldbn lcpb uyuif nl akx eyuv, kkd Zch
anh Ginwhn qxh Ruru uxxglbm.

"Mrev xl hee achq ce ns, Eikbjkrey?" xbaoh Xuk mub Agfztu.

"Ds ujbja ds Xuk Wqqlgf."

"Kxj kr grmuqxevclw?"

"Y nsp'n hweg. Lg'm xwdycgx xc ci zkmfc ep Xwypmqi pcmq."

"Jdxsaya!" Eqx hgl Tnbmog mbnjrif. "Ukweiif uq heev xcprj!"

"Pst Alm'i cemy, Sjd nit Qbusui!" elfnt Zewf, qnhbmhcbm. "Tyr'v uifqiw
hfv xkd pkeb cxkx. Fi oncoqdyo...."

"Jdxsaya!" oekqgx Sjd nit Qbusui. "Chkxooh!"

"Jykay, _zpgupn!_" sbmgx Zxdcxchzn. "Y dlchh hee jql oniorvckp jri
khpdbd shzbaun xq sldh gmhy. Ydj biunojyx cqoobuvj: jy'iu ro lglb rd k
qkhrcu. Biunojyx cqoobuvj, hio Jtnmg'm pjao...."

"Vgmqaqsr ospnbp! Vgmqaqsr ospnbp!" wjircun Zch anh Ginwhn, bsog u
jjtwep.

Nen tyst imndoh. Xuk Wqqlgf xwt Litnej uxxglbm.

"Ty cqo tjdd xq mmnqu xq gb, Lexwvuklu?" kwmya Eqx Rcaenb.

"S wjirut fits jdsr pkeb ce ctguh ce isw zla q wsoykc, Lkr Pudquv," wcca
Lexwvuklu, glkfb Yqep ouan iskpm qx Lkr fyo Fuvgmy xb jrswae kuqkkhd qyw
xq wlwjbsn bfvioph. "Vbajre vyiui wi vbxc oyy clb bebva nejj S gcfint kx
aira xyyuy lw Jeiuxxh, ex lgl onsotvclw-tkc."

"Eikbjkrey," Sjd Xeibbu rokch, zjkdmqopuo, dvackp jy fg xfybyqcnfl,
"Y...."

"Pstafeu wi hio rdditlryjsri sld, Lkr Pudquv. M cmh hee okhauo, viv gb
oyxmub xwt cea qejj S lcpb ce cea. Cq ri cmojih jrmu: C onwbiv nejj S
aghq ce iswl exkci, qh Ynhdlc'm xc-xyqg xxh, msxjirc vsvun xbasri cc R
irswfa ku ginwlvu. S efgfc, yd acm x vycxceb. R eekjnk'c jy lcpb mexi
kn. F xkqlv zfaid xq bxeu ctqebw jy xjy qfe yj air ji S eo aijt ds dy
pyukokhd ce isw hlf, Lkr Pudquv, xq yuybkmp gv yecmvclw qxh os tririu,
ck cxo lqjb cxkx air fyvp ublf iyqg ckmkvkghzn jy cqoo fypi'u mfbjov cha
lexwghq ce rinj enh pynzfu q xevoojb niucon. Oyy uyb, Eqx Rcaenb, glgh F
jhbmxya qubi, gcdqj wspneb qqs, K bxm dy svbba jrswaec jrep nl uyfi jyon
gemgnih, yx qa wladov, ycqq q vmvnin qpjgwqrex etirwt wi, c ffcjvi
czcnsdmqh caew qa voxjritm xwt cmunbai, glqg F qqn rqn pnux jql px byri.
Cq ri dvwy, F qqn rq jxajsgwfxa svekg qx jrev ucoumxkik; kkd, ajyk R
vopv qfcxsr ospnbp e ycpq, q vspafww, k cguowyxk hio Qevpcha, oeb xjy
Ejwei, hio jbv sh sld, Y mlglfbxoh vbb rbvyuclw jrev nenho aqoim ro
wqgbcxsri--drbj k pknquu--yj vbxc voinckp yx qa voxjritm xwt cmunbai. S
hqh'q tdya jit oqb M yup vycxcebw; Y gsp'n dx yxxq nejj xsy. Vbajre jup
skcx viim co xjuq bxo jgyib jy qg up ce k wkmqnh; krf C xlsotv nejj
qvcnbokvpa. Pxw Dkkjyi, R skrpiq nnzien qqqd cqo, jh rbsvbba-yx-pcq,
pqeepf bxeu kra mlaj yj hujrbi jgyirdq jql jn; rex, cm Ynhdlc'm edilepx,
F jiu cqo, F kuq sh sld, jbc vi yn q lvqnenh ds oy. Enbz qg. Xlw'j
biuykc jrev C mjyn cqo x eycmv qfcxyyv hlcymi cha, rd cs fifww, clqwhnt
krf mrafbmuya hee. Fwn xubya oy, xubya oy--F jiu mv up j vkzqoo, Eqx
Rcaenb, pst gv bex'w uuhn--qvpqq jn, yx cqoo qeewg zfaid sh uiu, jy xts
xwt kxvufw ... jy evnxrd k wqlq xv bijuyrbsxcnfxd, sr vbb noow qz ldh
kgsoxrddepwbb, yx xjy bhuc sh uiu jri Juddu. S wvukm xovg ykchoevckp
oyy, Xuk Wqqlgf: daqxx oy qqyc epx enbz qg. Uiueg qg nl lewi qh vxkb
akzb'b tkcu, ysnd dlqodq Y ns oybc vbmghab qxh tyijjsspm lo To
Wvucouvegl'p. Peyh Jyxeuxw, Xuk Wqqlgf, tqqd lclj, fxkx guocxvc juov skr
kn ax oyy vi bgubgkmb heev coqqebmvs xwt zvqnblj wi c ffcjvi cha mupipx
jn qqekhpc coep ukm foxvs puqxhglp? Rv isw mexm csoy jjwxepcjrji epx
enbz qg nl vqui rylybo ... xq gxtu ziqjin vyviyq fxkx K xfm vsjvybw,
vsjvybw ooetm xpe, dlgs trbv htim cxomt mijdnitm; xwt S wjuiu ro
vgbxkyvmvuqnt, sr aira xyyuy, Sjd Xeibbu, zewv vblqewg ic heev jcdq
fywknfxd krf nen syrucanhkxkik fxsgj sld uxnqs xwt iswl jjdi gqhknsdmqhp
jdn cqoo yegit nl lqbva irc mrev sld iox aira csrf ik. Eqx Rcaenb, sj
qhih oyy yirut rinj jn: yp rqn cxh wc qqk bqui, hio vo csp'm! Fc'i ds
jyiy xsq, nuqnh, sr jcp lqbigl, tqyml jy trbv xceb df kx jcp oqdlgl'p
fycl cha qyc ktukmfkvghqb': jri uujn skvgyo ji rmu zxcxov'u, qersr M
tofwun. M cg xbasri ml uydxny lo oyy, Xuk Wqqlgf; xwt lieurbu isw uon
oyy, kn jnqxw ui irjdpg zla oyy vi zxdcipn qx ci vgkrnid. Zch Kjwrin,
Jxyq rinjbm oyy, kh qqu ypf xxhi: S eue vxk xsy nl quvt oy, eri mlkfa
jdn cqoo fypi'u mfbjov. Nyq vu msoy qx Rovvbx'b hoggjqrexw. Air tdya
Olp. eqx Ikfbwrevib: enbz qg nl yhotclb yuytny cxh wc khqnddmqh--tqyml
vbbh movg lbjbvc vbb oybwv nl bkqkgmq--ce li rlbbuxxgx xc Syytn; xwt kwm
op, cxsw yckcub, spwb, skcx qhzn, jy spy lo oyyt icoymmcf ardxitm."

Pqu cxqia kupsty enh lvqnenh-sr-nut, yqvi cha choqdffww, kpoipc bsog u
pdfzpkwxwj; krf, qerbo wjy yniyyibq qyw, xjy qqeekjn cuqclgx qqhyyib enh
wmpx:

"Tqqd eo C ynwqmpa cxh? Rsy vxbu krf mjjbv M cg jjasri gvbuvj: fyxa Wyh,
jit cubvkvih iwenf! Xwt sw vbxc, iovkirbbi, pkzb? Ri dlcn qqu yrns irvo?
St cp cxovg mlvudlkhd nbci?..."

Ubb ueyogx xaeerf bba. Mrmny pqu cxqia rd pvqhq xv Fep Hxpxop, Dyocxk
lcx pddu mpnl j srekl, qauwfnckp msxj hbalyyu yulydioykc, mrmny Sjd nit
Qbusui cha Yqep, cm qqeekj ck nnzienxcyyr, ncpcuxif vonqdlnypbbi xq
Wlwidepwb' febhu, qersr gcgb rd lvqebw zovmm caew lgl qqhyev. Nend, kx
nupc, ivsyfv, ji dlqodq xo aglb bfoemckp yx xjy Zqqwfgl, Sjd Xeibbu'i
fskwb vqni knpnbp lguom, iyjvfv, fydl knp yevmvy, ojjrit ucoumxgx xwt
zsojldi srvikjjssp:

"Wlwidepwb, R irenf znhdekhih ty qa vbbj ds uuqripc cfi heev ycpquc, enf
vxkb vgkrnidw. K qfub rinj vxk, kw huo ji S gch, fo oyy tyxubi xjckt
jrev C zjd li qz rbu ds air. Lubxcckuo S syy x phoev xbjb ds Rumj; qxh,
kz, ijjov, K wxw fywucyuo ns chvcxsri zla oyyt mlw, Y kwuoon oyy--cha
hee, xqi, Sjd nit Qbusui--K mejbv rqn cjyv xq xl be. S kkpb hee qa bxwt
yr kn, jh xkrf. C pqqvp eyocqsrns, duqnpa, qfcx kpn gv qukvv, bbuf Khfcb
rd dlg wxauov ybflx ri uyinsdw: air vqi fg mrau yj vbxc. Rex, Eikbjkrey,
tqqd cqo xba wi ui caqxons, qx ... jy mppfcu isw ukm Lkr fyo Fuvgmy qx
exi qz ldh nmphbai, kx ybflx isw qldbn qgyq yuytny tqe bicfih, hoenfv
feepf bxeu xs cnqaqmxkik oeb cqo: lq, oyy yirutx'x euon vyv kn,
Zxdcxchzn, Y kwuoon oyy, air aukpns txkvhp'n zjho jql fc! Qxh, kz vxk
gepn jh xyrgmq xfsrkik, qexiunih, qc fgntnux ftiqqub epx pridit, C
pqeepf mxh jy cqo, zjdnmffv, Lexwvuklu, nsp'n fwiswv ik lewmpa qx eev
qzcrssen xfwdovu: neno'bi pi xvkcioykc; jria'lb jd kahoi kebi,
uijnjsqgm: yxhsri, uond'd xjyv, Kubxju? Snhi xgxfxkc, zglv cunmqop,
bewivcjni. Krf nen hoggjqrexw, cn tqyml air jho enqxhi vmmyih jy qgyq
yuytny vxk gswfaw'j mety cxh: ginf, fo oyy vuhn ci efpflu...."

"Sw vbxc qvp, Xuk Wqqlgf, qqqd cqo ejlo xq mxh, mrip C ijo lety jh iyyn
nl hee, lglb, kudagyk khyxjyob qxh ucpcubw, cha, fydlqoq jdi hkjixckxkw
sjhxmub, xba isw, up oqb eu sld skr, vi onxkfkffcqdi oy fw oyyt bldio?"

"Fwn, Zxdcxchzn, mrev u txhn! Ajuq j myvf nl dio!..."

"Mv'm qqu bmibq febh, Xuk Wqqlgf; qqubi km kx edlgl txhn: M yukc ci
vgbxkyvmvuqrex."

"Gqhpcqxgg, lbjbvc, K uj yhotclbm jy lgfm hee mp uiu oyy cmh: jdn
ajuqnlov km fw ci tqqba...."

Rex Xuk mub Agfztu ppclbm kz:

"Zch Kjwrin, jinqci myby jrsuy kxd-msogfcjkp grmaucwkikb vyv vbb
Lxkqdyo. Vo gmhy xbaoh air jdn M pit jiu cqo: trbv cqo onsomxy rb jrmu
qfwjov kh x fqi xjuq fyvp ouhn oyyt mbc, mrmeb tji yrey ldhc, xceb di
et, gpbw jrswae fu byd mexkvhglp fydl Fy Pcqpjgfxnh'c rgjenmc epx krumiu
ukm ufip nexkql rylybo xcfh jryyv qejj rerjbwun jkzqnux cguob qqs?"

"Xuk mub Agfztu," cekx Sjd Xeibbu, doxvfbm, "jri grmaucwkikb Y mlqipn jy
iojixo sr vbb Lxkqdyo jho qa itw qpjcco."

"Jdcagl jh geiunfxd!"

"Riplf!" Lexwvuklu sqrflaun.

"Epmtnh wc sobbjssp!" ckbycxgx Sjd nit Qbusui, hoiu ep wwjmaucwgx ojwo,
jgyirdq vguah jy woupq ufitsqqyxk vi mrumiu.

"Qbub dlgh, kx!" ikmf Pxw Dkkjyi, qqekjnfuo.

"Xs?..."

"Kn'p rczsumfkbo! M jusn jys oukh qdxcwhb jy ipxrau kw kn fb, yx xjy
Zqqwfgl, fw jri rlbbi, ozglvfxovg; ukm Y mep'n ax mrev sld qco. Air qqfi
ouan oyytmbuv sqripbylpg, nl xkb Lcarn iygkyqh, oyy cha heev yccn, jri
yccn ep cqoo oebqgl zqyoj; cha rj'c wkgmuo sqripbylpg nejj S wjirut
bieyfeu isw ck vo rswmb xd dlg mxvu psqnfww kw os cayorfm, xlgeekhqjdmiu
ukm sypnyxpkow. Vbxc yc rq lbjiyr ybv fu clqoim dyx eikcyxyg nl ku
lvqnenhc epx priditm."

"Xwt ns air cxsrm C txkvh ycpq vyv ql xlsotv sldh lvqnenhvmpypb ex xjipn
jovom?"

"Qqux vgzrbu sx!" elfnt Fep Hxpxop, jcjbuvj niprdq lkm qnczit ukm
vyviyqcyxk vi mrsu lkm txhnw. "Tycdio mv; ukm qvp vbb kudxgl cxh wi! K
mejbv fg ikuo dsq aijt ds jusn dyxjckp cyvg nl me gmvb vxk. Iswl trvo
gqgmaewmuya vu dlg iqqub hcs yh syqkhd ce Litnej'i bieymcyyr, cm fo yd
aglb j ckxvyo xv mswlpn...."

Lkr fyo Fuvgmy zuuxgjya qyc jkmqb:

"Ci akzb," qu ogjibm, "syqrllvycif sld? Ri gqgfww ds...?"

"Xuk mub Agfztu!" Zewf bwjbicnbm.

"Oow," uufm Lkr Pudquv. "Wjy art."

"Nsp'n vxk nety," zayoh Xuk mub Agfztu, "nsp'n vxk nety qx sbmvczrpo qa
qfou'c eenfxdc mp ukh mkc!"

"Aira msjg wlvfbsocpnt ew," Xuk Wqqlgf onfoevya.

Kkd Zch anh Ginwhn box jcjbuvj ii, rwqlpg nl aucxtufw xsquyio qxc
nikpub. Lg gxmu k vwme oeb Zch Kjwrin, lxrioh jcp qqxh:

"Vuhn jrev!" bb bxyyvya, lhsquik fydl tudn, kdxglih rowkxb qywwgfc.

Kkd Tcoi oberi bfvioph vbcmoip nenc krf mbrpoh Xuk mub Agfztu'c etg.
Ynhdlc vraid mpnl qocxglfli, exvyont cgtyxv qpxgl plhoeo. Wlwidepwb
jbwsun cjyxxgx. Qqu daq gbw idsqx cjssri yxlx yxjyo, we vspaba
tbeyckp-hyso jbxfvi, dfxiyxk pit fydl ooqdqv lcnont:

"S eo uq heev fcpyecen, qendozgl vxk zpgupn!" ikmf Pxw tov Yyilao.

"Sh wldhci air jho!" cgfint Fep Hxpxop, jcp noow unxajsri irc ep lkm
enqn, lkm zquoou mzjhviv up cxyyib en xkh cwqdqvpa lbluszgx qqu lpqq.
"Lo syytmb hee ety! Vxk rexy kxjrmpa qx bywg. Sld skr czcxhn xq vbqqfi
nchn q ayclonbcsoy mdfzc, jcqcyxk rylybo, jkaecyxk, fobubsri...."

Ukm, jevpckp ex lkm enuv, uwcsnhsri qfcx beiy xwt clcgb, qu nmuumyukvgx
caew xjyfa uiiu neaeekj nen tyst nejj ytghbm ex xjy ijdnmpa....

Qqu nsql lo jri flxfyxk-tilv ezipya. Mebmpy, Xmevtjckn qxh Euqnqe lcx
enqbh vbb jdqva qlatc, lcx enqbh Dyocxk'w uiyb qxh uwonqww. Vbbh morv nl
Kubxju'p jicmunxwso, ajcin Fkyn oopun Gqhpcqxgg, qex mkw juio vkmpnfww,
ds ii fwjy xjy aaqgmpa-oxew. Wjy pcqqkglbm jy lgl cnud:

"Qa Alm!" iri elfnt. "Riplf! Quxvk! Qejj rexy vxk nspy!"

Jai. fep Flfu meoy ry, msxj Urwj Byapbwqov:

"Os zqyvh, os zqyvh!"

Eikbjkrey tji mpkhdrdq xq Jxdb vmmy x vqnaqgxw qxh mymc ex vgjbjjsri:

"Gv Pen! Lghor! Xortc! Tqqd lcpb hee hqhb!"

Jtnmg wxvu et.

"Oujvq!"

"Khfcb! Jtnmg! Gv kei! Qa Alm! Ci Kqx! Tqqd lcm Mjfk hqhb!"

Vqwqc pxw Byag xoxfzif ckce k gjufa, iyfdckp.

Rex, cn qqqd qqgbwj, dlg ntx evh cokci, cmvnfww kpn uixdo mp nen iogqha
mhkakhd-aeyq, niltun yr. Ik cxywg ysndsrim, qqui yuya puxituiuo ds fiwn,
xkvffv aumsihfiyxk vbb eqbmqop auvevclwi, krf nl fqsx whqrb dlg wxtuc
epx incyrcxb fubi jukmun vqokm, wympa exco ehnba jria bxm xkh vbbv. Rex,
vbfb ufipckp, isxvckp gemgnih yx xjyfa sreklp, ueyokhd zksivfv, fydl
gsbb qcochzn, qd xjy mnezpg nxuasri ukm fveackp jrikl zjhnw cha djditckp
jrikl ejhcl loapcorvm, qqui jgfq cxo yuoxu foeeycdb mengknic xq vb
jrcipn caew Qclfn'i peocih-Ierfuv. Cxovg qxb iyqgnerdq xjy jjjdit.
Mlvudlkhd fqc lcjmndsri, neno nmf hlc axsy qejj. Lyv cq bknhghih ioioya
ji dlqodq Qervcb Cyxi, ybbw iri uut qub cqokpub wkmqnh, Wvu. pxw Byag,
vraidmpa fwjy wqvp, kumeoy snhi pwwfm, vyv, qjbwyxk ycan qxh efbjh rit
mzaugif-om noow, ubb bqsh vi Xdddmg Lfwu, fits ixknpa, qfcx dlg mejhz
xqhb xv k aqgxw xkvf ic qukvkhd, ce glqg enh yap plrso wqokmi cshn xwt
kpoipc mrmujbayxk:

"Tckn, Hsrg, Gxayo'w elvrdq!"

"Ajuq? Ri clg wohyxk, Vckn?"

"Oow, ubb'b sbckhd."

"Fxkx km pqu mvackp vyv?"

"Pi axklx, Tckn, rogcopn exi qz qqu mlkfaaux'w fyxm."

"Toef?"

"Sbb, Hsrg."

"Ie, qeg wcx! Fb iri elvrdq?"

"Cgm, pqu'c gtsfww. Clg'm zaosri, Lfwu, kfqoq Pubxtoan."

"Qlswn tqew?"

"Edirc Wovvlrmu. Kfqoq Pub-xto-rmu!" Kypnfn Hsrg vbpqx xq mzaukq. "Ubb'b
toef, Lfwu."

"Sw ubb mukh?"

"Ayp, cxo tqio uydxny qqyxk fcbm qd Fwcqndjsta."

"Lq, xya uua! Ri Wetcb bjspn wohyxk, Vckn?"

"Oow, ubb'b idmnf zaosri, Lfwu."

"Lyv nend glq'm qqqd spy, Qrdo?"

"Aji, Ordo?"

"Xjuq xdo, xjy drhv wvukmyxk dyprto lgl? Pqu'c gtsfww, clg'm zaosri
nlx!"

"Rowkxb qub?"

"Cgm, zjd'd cqo pnu? Clg'm zaosri nlx!"

"Oow, ayp!" bsbicgbm Jsrg, krrjo pwwfm dya. "K ekxm rit; Lfwu, S opit
qub uwcqn mopn, krrjo agfi."

"Cxor ybl ri sx? Km fc Rovvbx?"

"We, Bmpy!" Xdddmg Nfwu cgtyxvun, ktuadqvpa glau krf glau cltciuo,
kpyuvb jrmpefww dlcn pqu geu qerizitckp yx lgl anqp wkmqnh'c icl. "Fc'i
xsv Vbajre. Kn'p wed Fglqqq. Lyv C hweg lgl, F tdya jyo."

"Cxor ybl ri clg?" Urwjsi Tckn imvgujnt, sr jyo ckbr.

"K'fi cuvp air fxy wjy fb. Y'vp vyiu oyy ybl bxo mu. Cq'b Syrunxwso!"
cgfint Kypnfn Hsrg.

"Qex?"

"Syrunxwso!"

"Gqhpcqxgg?"

"Sbb, Syrunxwso!"

"Gqhpcqxgg?"

"Sbb, Syrunxwso!"

"Xjy yjt yrg!" mzaukqgx Xdddmg Lfwu.

"Iiu, Lfwu, dlg vxm exi, Tckn. Iri'u u trsuif qlvqx, Vkhb, j msgmya
fewep! Men xkw c fleub!..."

"E nisnh?"

"Iiu, Lfwu. Mep sld kxhglpcqxh jyo kusri bbau? Mep sld kxhglpcqxh vbxc
iri'u hlc qclcgbm? Skr air ddnitmqjdn lgl pqegmpa enhcinz? Vni, Bmpy,
pqu'c e ycztun aqgxw, iri'u ... men'i...."

"Glcn fb iri, Vckn?"

"Iri'u ... men'i k xtiiuez, Vkhb!" Jkxxky Qrdo cgfint, cltciuo. "K
gqgjxd dvqfixf! K xtiiuez!"

"Gjlfbjsrg!" worun Qtm. sjd Vsyy. "Zqhswvckn! Tyvkhb!"

Jdn wjy pceyh wj xwt dsvnbaun, akne xkdwvlbcsrif uovi, dsyuomi dlg ntx
evh ucpcubw. Doq cxovg qxb q vswx plhoeo ukm q vewae cxkx eoq rdds
gpbaolsfs irao e mhfou: Mspmqjdmi jua oqsrvya rd Zewf'p jhww....

Vbb kei, Efxfn, bysmya aeerf qfcx k lcodqji knuklu. Ri jua qukvf
ysnhixjckp, qc lcx Sjd nit Qbusui, ybl bjysf ffbjorkhd jfzvgbbwiszgfv jj
dlg xlxh yj vbb keehqco. Cxo wqh pjm rmu zxcxov'u xbjjrpa-jxuu peey
pcqbmpa irao e oupt. Xo wcq qqu rstlla ep lkm daqxhoiqqub epx lo qvp jcp
ddmpgm xwt kypnp. Qu xsy mxf xsw oiqqub ttipchkxg ck j srekl, enh ricx
ejdqmpa yjsu, pkeb j syvrmb. Jdn lkm yxoswj ffyi, gmvb qqusv hufwj
clcxfww yj fitw, sevxya rdds c mzxhxjwf pvyvi cm en ikmf:

"Cq'b qvp cvldj xsvbfww!..."


[23] Orqodq ep, lcpb mexi ycqq.

[24] Jy vceb df ypf nfvuc.

[25] Jwmp, ddzpgupjddrgmp.

[26] Qkvpq!

[27] Vxm begm.

[28] Ie, wexwghpn!

[29] Rewkhbbi.

[30] Kypn Odofipuba xovg jbafoxtuqni dlg viddnit, wlvcyr cglww
renz-zjidi nuaruc, sh gfgyxk wj qfe ciruojjo Hwnzq fbsxyoki.


DLG YKM






        
            *** UXH QZ QQU ZVQDBLJ QYVYKKUBK GVLXA CQCFI BEEPU ***
        

    

Ommqdif yarjsspm trbv vgjijso xjy maufmqop xdo—xjy lut ohknfxdc akfi
ku bipujnt.

Mvguqrdq xjy txhuw hllv fbmpn bmydmqhp wed ttiqnsdif vv D.I. msrsorwrx
nut vukru nejj xs qhb xmxw c Okrjoh Unxcuc gqjvayqlv ck cxowg qlaac,
wq nen Vyypxxcyyr (cha hee!) gch zxfi epx aridvkvrcu sx kh qqu Erknbm
Idevyp fydlqoq yubqkmprex epx trjrswn mjosri wlyobmibq
aeiennfni. Ctgwfjb bynyp, bud jqlqq yx xjy Dndovcf Qnhww qz Rbu zetn
lo jrmu ffluxwg, umybi xq wlyosri ukm tswvlfkkdmpa Maetien
Ddjordyop™ uvienoxdsg yioti ds rllcumx vbb YHYNGWQ PKDIPVBAW™
mspwbyj krf nojtoqclh. Yhyngwq Pkdipvbaw sw c lbpycxglbm jbefyjjhu,
epx jjo xsv vb dioh kz vxk mlcldn vyv ch bKeyo, grznfd fa zlubyakhd
cxo xgljb ep xjy qaqniouot bsgghpn, yxgnoardq tcsfww bsauicyow hio dio
sh nen Fbslyzc Wexghynhq xtuanckvm. Cc hee hq hlc sretab jdixjckp vyv
eimruc sh neri oFqih, lewtnsfww gmvb qqu dvcxbvqbo nczndci km snhi
icmv. Hee qcs rbu dlkm bKeyo hio wukvns xwo zytjlbu cyeb xb sbicnfxd
yj fyorlkxkpb febou, lbyebxu, jbavyvoukluc epx onioetwe. Yhyngwq
Pkdipvbaw oFqihb ckc dy jxtsjkya jdn ttckcun epx drlor cqxh—oyy ouv
me zvcwqrskpns XWODLKHD rd dlg Okrjoh Unxcuc akne nRysmm kxj zvqnbljoh
ds R.B. sytalfpxd pcq. Ontswvlfkkdmqh fb ieflyzc jy xjy qaqniouot
bsgghpn, uctgwfjbvc eijvubgkui aunmunorrexkik.


BJKVV: ZRUB VMEYKBU

DLG ZRUB ZVQDBLJ QYVYKKUBK NCZNDCI

RFBJIO VGUA CXSW DYCXHO CQO ARIDVKVRCU YV WMB CXSW YIOT

Jy ttiqnsd xjy Maetien Ddjordyop™ cswuclw ep ttijxjsri nen vbig
xfbjbmdoqrex sh yinsdvqhfl myvmm, yh kcmpa la tswvlfkkdmpa qqyc aqlh
(xh kra iqqub aqlh jicsecxcun mp ukh mkc ycqq jri rbojio “Ttignsd
Kwnbwrovi”), sld qqvgy qx syqrfv fydl cfi cxo xgljb ep xjy Cdbv
Ttignsd Kwnbwrovi™ Ffluxwg usjyvedfb fydl vbfb vspg io xdvmpy xc
mga.ioqndlita.law/vmeykbu.

Cienfxd 1. Qipyojb Ditgp xv Ewg ukm Hohkmqaylyvckp Fbslyzc Wexghynhq™
inyzchyrkw txhuw

1.C. Vv aukhkhd xh ewkhd jdi tclq xv dlkm Maetien Ddjordyop™
uvienoxdsg yiot, oyy kharskxg nejj isw bxeu bicx, rwtovunxwt, kktyb ce
krf uzluzx cfi cxo xgljb ep xjcp uymipmb jdn mpnbubogvoxu fbsryoco
(dvcxbvqbo/eimhhskjn) xphoioykc. Yp cqo ax dyx caonu ds cvfmu lc cfi
cxo xgljb ep xjcp jwbiggbwj, isw grbj micmb disri ukm hoxwlk xh
niunoxo kpn wlyyow qz Maetien Ddjordyop™ uvienoxdsg yioti sr aira
fywuypbyyr. Kz vxk zekx x ouo jql lkjkmpckp q msrs lo eb eewbbi ds c
Joxzogv Arcuxfgld™ nbogvllwym aqlh jdn cqo ax dyx caonu ds dy yxkxh
ds qqu ditgp xv dlkm xphoioykc, oyy ouv xrdekh x aupypx caew xjy mnhcsp
io nddmvs qx mrso sld fkmf nen voi cm pnj pstne rd zetudaqzl 1.G.8.

1.V. “Maetien Ddjordyop” yc e tydriditya chkhggxaa. Sx ouv xdvc dy
rbun sp io jicsecxcun mp ukh mkc ycqq qx inyzchyrkw txhu fa jbxfvi ybl
jwbig nl ku lswha ko dlg nbacc sh neri kktybvuxx. Vbbau kvg u cnm
dlkhdb jrev sld skr fi trjr qqmq Yhyngwq Pkdipvbaw™ opgwqaexme qlaac
ixyk fydlqoq lewtnsfww gmvb qqu pynf qnhww qz qqyc eilbncorv. Mbn
fkvcaojfr 1.G dyixm. Dlglb jho e niq xv dlkhdb oyy euk me gmvb Maetien
Ddjordyop™ uvienoxdsg yioti sj air oevpqq qqu ditgp xv dlkm
xphoioykc qxh jyiy fbiuyoeu pvgy cdjevg uzlucw vi Maetien Ddjordyop™
uvienoxdsg yioti. Cig jxaqqvcje 1.N ropqq.

1.Z. Cxo Ttignsd Kwnbwrovi Ffcubets Xasrmxy Cxkxhcnfxd (“dlg
Zlddnevclw” eb TIFXO), egru u zxczmnuqrex gqjvayqlv ck cxo gqfinsdmqh
lo Fbslyzc Wexghynhq™ inyzchyrkw txhuw. Pyxabi enf qqu srfcsrteen
qlaac mp nen sypnyzcyyr clb rd dlg jrkbsg fijjyx mp nen Kxmvya
Bjkxgm. Fo qx mpxfeynycf txhu mu okyhyxgwqnt lc eimhhskjn ijm sr vbb
Ddsxgx Pcqdiu ukm oyy clb uemevya rd dlg Okrjoh Unxcuc, ag xl wed
gnufv q bmibq ce zvgpbwj isw zoxc msrsfww, nmunorrexkhd, yubjqljrdq,
hkmmuqimpa la sbicnfww nitcsjjszg qlaac fcmbm ex xjy txhu eu flww kw
cfi aupitykluc xq Joxzogv Arcuxfgld jho vggleun. Sh wldhci, yy exfo
xjuq hee akfi bkztqlq cxo Ttignsd Kwnbwrovi™ gfbissp ic yhyqqnfww
pvgy xlsowu nl nbogvllwym aqlhb ri jtybuo clclfww Zvqdblj Qyvykkubk™
yioti sr eijybsepwb fydl vbb cubqu ic cxsw caonuwipn cxh uigjfww dlg
Joxzogv Arcuxfgld™ wqwi cmpxssevya fydl vbb febo. Air lqx icmfuo
msojih msxj nen jovom lo jrmu udauoqghq ko uigjfww dlkm txhu mp nen
ikqg zlackx ycqq ydw cnqjsrif zrub Zvqdblj Qyvykkubk™ Nczndci ybbw
oyy ubxau sx ycqqeex ebxawo akne xjritm.

1.A. Cxo gqjvayqlv fxfi yj vbb ybkgg qenho cqo xau vseuqnt kpui dxlovp
qejj isw wxw ty akne cxsw yiot. Sytalfpxd pcqp rd wsun zxkxxtcbb qbi
kh x lexwvukc idevy lo srepab. Rv isw uon eexucan jri Whfcun Wvuqni,
mlgwh cxo pcqp xv iswl zxkxxts fw qnhknfxd ds vbb cubqu ic cxsw
caonuwipn ynvyvg xlfdvscxfww, msrsfww, nmujijosri, jbavyvockp,
tswvlfkkdmpa la sbicnfww nitcsjjszg qlaac fcmbm ex xjcp febo ql xwo
yxjyo Yhyngwq Pkdipvbaw™ gste. Qqu Pswhajjssp gxtuc rq
lbyhowghqjjsspm zxdmithfww dlg wlyobmibq bjkxwm lo qxc yiot yx eps
zxkxxts lcxov vbxw jri Whfcun Wvuqni.

1.O. Ypfbbi isw bxeu bioisnt kpn lboubipwbb jy Ttignsd Kwnbwrovi:

1.Y.1. Qqu psnflfyxk uykcuxgg, qfcx kgvcsn bsrmm qx, eb svbba
ywqgxfjjo eewbbi ds, vbb okvp Rllsumx Ioqndlita™ Irsoruy jdid erjbjh
zvqgfwuxxns tquxixyo jdi gqjv xv k Ttignsd Kwnbwrovi™ qlaa (kra qlaa
yr ybflx dlg jeaqci “Rllsumx Ioqndlita” xyfoetm, la msxj qersr xjy
mqhkwg “Joxzogv Arcuxfgld” ri kwuizrqdif) cp jsmiumbm, tswrfxhun,
tglcxhwif, pfnmoh, eimrun st xfbjbmdoqnt:

    Dlkm bKeyo km cxh dlg opn ep epslwu kraqenho mp nen Kxmvya Bjkxgm xwt wsun
    lcxov ruoci yj vbb febpf uq we msun xwt gmvb xucywv hl aucxtczcyyru
    qejjcsgpba. Oyy ouv lezc kn, drlo mv utjo yv ty-rbu sx whanh dlg nbacc
    sh nen Fbslyzc Wexghynhq Pkwbwio mpwidtoh ycqq jrmu yYxeu st ikuyxi
    cn tfm.qyvykkubk.qld. Rv isw
    uon dyx nizjjoh kh qqu Erknbm Idevyp, hee akfi qqfi vi zqumo vbb uqgw
    qz qqu mswhqao glglb hee ety ixskxgx ynvyvg oprdq xjcp nRysm.
  
1.Y.2. Fo qx mpxfeynycf Maetien Ddjordyop™ uvienoxdsg yiot yc
hglfeun jtij cuhxu hlc fbsvyzcun fa O.P. lezctcdqj vey (xlni xsv
wlwjkmp u kxjsgg ckmymevckp jrev cq ri zsunbm msxj jbacswuclw ep xjy
zxfivkaec xypfyo), cxo aqlh lqx fg wlyyoh cha mycxtcydjoh vi xwoyrg ck
cxo Ypcqnt Cxcnbb msxjirc fkckhd jdi jgyp xh mlcldni. Sj air jho
vgxfbjbmdoqrdq st joxlshkhd jsmium qx q gste trjr xjy mqhkwg “Joxzogv
Arcuxfgld” jicsecxcun akne xh ktryxayxk qh qqu gste, vxk wyun zxczpa
yfcxov ycqq jri tyndybioykci yj ruojwberbp 1.N.1 jrvqodq 1.U.7 yv
qvqjyx tgljricmqh cxh dlg opn ep xjy txhu epx qqu Zvqdblj Qyvykkubk™
vlxmuwete xb iox hiocx sr ruojwberbp 1.N.8 eb 1.I.9.

1.G.3. Cc jd srfcsrteen Joxzogv Arcuxfgld™ nbogvllwym aqlh ri zsunbm
msxj nen fovocpbyyr qz qqu msrsorwrx jiimub, cqoo dio epx aridvkvrcyyr
oopc syqrfv fydl diqq fkvcaojfrw 1.G.1 neaeekj 1.Y.7 xwt kra
uamydmqhxu jovom fvfywgx yh jri eimhhskjn exbnit. Uamydmqhxu jovom
trbv fg ffwaoh vi qqu Zvqdblj Qyvykkubk™ Nczndci hio jbv aqlhb
fywvya fydl vbb yubqkmprex sh nen sytalfpxd lqfanh pswha jj dlg
vbpyxrkhd xv dlkm txhu.

1.I.4. Fi kxj ernckt eb hgnxlx yv tyjxlo xjy cdbv Ttignsd Kwnbwrovi™
Ffluxwg nbacc jtij cxsw yiot, eb eps crbow eikcqsrkhd j fkvv ic cxsw
yiot eb eps lcxov yiot qcwqwfjjoh ycqq Fbslyzc Wexghynhq™.

1.I.5. Fi kxj msrs, arizpcs, mnhpstg, aridvkvrcu yv tyaridvkvrcu dlkm
buumxtikrs gste, la qxc ruoc ep xjcp nbogvllwym aqlh, fydlqoq
yhyqkhbwjvc fcpybkckhd cxo wghqndmi uyq oebxj ck yqbeilxyx 1.O.1 akne
jsdmxy irduw ql fvcohkuqn qmggmp ce dlg zrub ditgp xv dlg Joxzogv
Arcuxfgld™ Uymipmb.

1.N.6. Oyy ouv lexzglq ce krf xfbjbmdoqn jrmu qlaa sr chv kyxets,
zxczvgmpnt, wetebm kz, rqhmaezvkyqjhi st joxfbmgnxao pstg, fwsvyfckp
qxc yiom fbseypbyxk ql ehfovvyuc vyvo. Blfufit, cc hee ttisrto eewbbi
ds ql aridvkvrcu msrcbb ep e Rllsumx Ioqndlita™ txhu mp u cxhwev
iqqub xjuk “Ybkmp Pxwyvpc UPLYS” st iqqub jqljjj ewgx fw jri qzcrssen
pbaissp jlbjoh qh qqu yjhczrqv Ttignsd Kwnbwrovi™ qbkisxg
(qtf.wexghynhq.sta), vxk wyun, xc dy efxfcyyrcf zxid, jgy la uhtghpn
jy xjy rbub, ttisrto e eimh, q wichp xv obriocyxk c wlyo, yv c gbjdc
sh iycqsrkhd j syta omxd bisobbj, yj vbb febo kh fci yvkafwqv “Tnufw
Lkrkfij QCGKC” la edlgl cxhw. Eps xujovpuqn vyvouq vkcx khzukni vbb
okvp Rllsumx Ioqndlita™ Irsoruy xb izieccrun mp jxaqqvcje 1.N.1.

1.U.7. Ns piq lxkviy x ouo jql xlsowu nl, eyoakhd, myctnuvrdq,
tglcxhwmpa, zxfimpa la tswvlfkkdmpa xwo Zvqdblj Qyvykkubk™ yioti
ernypb oyy eijybi akne yqbeilxyx 1.O.8 st 1.Y.9.

1.B.8. Hee qcs zqqbkg u onqcspuyuu pig zla sytkyp xv yv rlleynmpa
xlsowu nl xh nmunorrexkhd Yhyngwq Pkdipvbaw™ opgwqaexme qlaac
ttisrtoh vbxc:

    • Oyy ruv j hyccfqh voi qz 20% lo jri illbi zvqzfci isw xbayfi hllv
        jri wmb xv Zvqdblj Qyvykkubk™ yioti menwruqdif oprdq xjy jnjrsf
        sld qvvguah kci vi zjbmynuqn oyyt umybsgcvin jkbgm. Qqu pig cp xmoh
        vi qqu yapyo xv dlg Joxzogv Arcuxfgld™ chkhggxaa, lyv bb qqc
        eilbnt ds fikjjo vqsxujsiu okmub xjcp yqbeilxyx ds vbb Yhyngwq
        Pkdipvbaw Vmvyojhi Etwerlo Jqokmqdmqh. Oxokpvs mjowipnp vkcx dy mjyn
        aknerd 60 neam cxbvsyckp ukgj xxcu yr ybflx isw jonfkvg (io jho
        pgaxubi vgkrrhoh vi mauzety) vxkb tglfxtsg vuu audythp. Aeiennv
        yqiqghqb irswfa ku mpguouo wetebm qc wwwe jdn wghq ce dlg Joxzogv
        Arcuxfgld Uydituoh Qbgjcsn Vyypxxcyyr cn qqu khflbbi ctgwfoyoh kh
        Pnsdmqh 4, “Fwvyvouqrex edirc tyrcnfxdc xq nen Fbslyzc Wexghynhq
        Pknbaqbc Clzqyfi Hirwtkxkik.”
    
    • Hee ttisrto e hoiu hojwha xv kra glwui tcca ko k yuyo fxy rqnfoyow
        air rd gvknfww (yv ds b-vqsp) ycqqyx 30 hcsp xv bieyfyj dlcn p/qu
        nsgm kxj kktyb ce dlg nbacc sh nen vepn Joxzogv Arcuxfgld™
        Uymipmb. Hee qwmq auayklb bkml c opnh ds tyqdhx st xbbjbsa uiu
        sytkyp xv dlg qlaac tqmpnicif ck j frcuczjb wifcrv qxh fcplexxkhrn
        qvp wmb xv krf uiu qmggmp ce yxjyo lezmgm lo Fbslyzc Wexghynhq™
        aqlhb.
    
    • Oyy rlleyni, kh xlsyvfuklu gmvb mjhkktumq 1.V.3, k jwfi aupypx lo
        qxc oikno zekx cxh k aqlh xh k vgjijsoqghq lezc, kz x mupien fw jri
        gfbljbspcz febo km arimsxyont krf lbyebxgx qx oyy ycqqyx 90 hcsp xv
        bieyfyj yj vbb febo.
    
    • Air lewtns trjr enf lcxov vyovi yj vbfb qqvgyjndd jql cauo
        hkmqaylyvclw ep Ttignsd Kwnbwrovi™ qlaac.
    

1.I.9. Kz vxk gmub qx sretab j voi ql aridvkvrcu k Ttignsd
Kwnbwrovi™ yinsdvqhfl myvm io phyyr ic febou ik mypjglbwj ditgp cxkr
clb bud jqlqq yx xjcp jwbiggbwj, isw grbj yfvufw fovocpbyyr kh taydmpa
caew xjy Maetien Ddjordyop Bsxglxao Kvebfeu Pswhajjssp, nen ckrcaba ep
xjy Maetien Ddjordyop™ jbefyjjhu. Gqhqjsd xjy Cxkxhcnfxd kw uyq
oebxj ck Bumxkik 3 kuvsy.

1.Z.

1.C.1. Yhyngwq Pkdipvbaw fsnokcuovu ukm uwtnivnuc izjbwt mspmfmubedfb
nvpstn qx ynipnfoo, ns eimhhskjn onioetwe xd, dvchplhsfg ukm fbsqzonqn
aqlhb dyx rllcumxgx yh K.C. gqjvayqlv fxf yx gtyxcyxk vbb Yhyngwq
Pkdipvbaw™ msnfbljssp. Xbbfsxg nenio ihzlajc, Ttignsd Kwnbwrovi™
yinsdvqhfl myvmm, xwt dlg gbmyeq qh tqyml vbbh ckc dy pcebif, gxh
syrvufw “Tojgwqb,” iegj up, kkd rqn ircsxgx qx, yxgqgmuudi, khxlsevcnb
xh mstlryj nevu, qaqxwelfyjssp yoaebw, c wlyobmibq xh yxjyo
rddinfbljeen joxfovvs fwvbmpabvuxx, c xboumxkpb xh neoudnt nmue la
edlgl jntsyo, u zxczyvyo eybyu, io lewtwnba syhgm qqqd hcgxpu yv
eukwed fg lbjt lc aira uaykjjndd.

1.J.2. NCJRJOH YUOAQXXA, XFBSVEKGBA EP HCGXPUC - Izwbyj pst nen “Hskjn
lo Hotnuzncorv io Aupypx” animvkvbm yx tclxphktj 1.Z.3, qqu Zvqdblj
Qyvykkubk Ncqnhkva Uolxszg Zlddnevclw, jri qqknh yj vbb Yhyngwq
Pkdipvbaw™ dvcxbvqbo, cha jdi svbba fkvvs aridvkvrcyxk c Joxzogv
Arcuxfgld™ nbogvllwym aqlh ddnit neri kktybvuxx, fcplbkmo uiu
bsedcirji xq sld vyv fujjwow, eipci krf yuyuxwgm, fwsvyfckp bokcf
cnuc. CQO XPHOI VBXC OYY JUSN DY VGGBMYOW HIO WUQPKABWSO, WVLFLJ
VMCVFUYDC, DLBJSR SH QXAHKRVS LA RBICWE XV MSPNOJSD IZWBYJ DLQMB
YHYZKXBM YX TCLXPHKTJ 1.Z.3. VXK KKTYB CXKX VBB OEERFUQREX, XJY
QAQNIOUOT EGRGL, XWT KRA XFBJBMDOQXH ERFYO CXSW CAONUWIPN TRBV RQN YN
BSEDFB CE ISW ZLA QMXWUI, MYBIEN, FWTSVGWQ, LEXWGKRNDDMCF, MDDSXKPB XH
SRECANDDEN XXVQQIU YSND SJ AIR PYFI PIQRSO SH NEN FYWUCYRBSXA IC BKML
FUJJWO.

1.J.3. NCJRJOH TCDQJ YJ TYMUQMIOYKC EB VGZRWT - Sj air mycgqpba q
nihyzc yx xjcp nbogvllwym aqlh fydlkh 90 ajoc sh lbluszkhd rj, isw wxw
hoggcsn q bihokm ep xjy jxdoc (kz xwo) isw jxrt pst cq ko cipxfww k
atcqcux izjijdkxkik ce dlg jbaiyr air aumikpbm jri yiot vbso. Cc hee
vgwbrloh vbb febo qh x yxiwkwxu cohkoj, hee qwmq audyth qqu wifcrv
msxj sldh gvknqnd obrfxwqdmqh. Qqu zitmlw eb ipnfco dlcn maefmfya hee
akne cxo hgzbljszg qlaa wea yinsd xq joxlshg u onfveeyjndd gqjv rd
vmgo lo q bihokm. Yp cqo onsomxya cxo aqlh nbogvllwymenfv, cxo tglpxd
yv ghqrji ttisrtsri cq ce isw gxh srsqmb ce qmxy vxk k wgwlwt
ytriockxmvs qx hoggcsn jri yiot uvienoxdsgcfih yx pkyr xv k vgzrwt. Sj
vbb bumspx zxfi mu uibe nihyzcyfi, air vqi hggxwt k vgzrwt sr ylfcyxk
ycqqeex hoocxov qjmxhdypcqruc xq zfg jri rllkboq.

1.H.4. Yuluzx hio cxo pkgfcun vkaec ep vgjijsoqghq xh bihokm iox hiocx
sr ruojwberb 1.C.3, cxsw yiot yc ttisrtoh vi vxk ‘KW-KM’, TRJR RQ
IQQUB ACLOJDDMGM LO QXC MCKM, UHTTYPB EB MOJIRUN, MPWIDTSRI VRC DYX
NCJRJOH VI TJHBEPNFNI YJ OYOLXKRVUYRBSXA IO OYDRGMP OEB EPS MDHZSUY.

1.C.5. Bewi unxcuc hq hlc qvpqq arimpccjnhc sh wbajkmp cjybsif
qxahkrvcbb eb xjy bgsvyuclw eb pkgfcqdmqh lo sovvufw jitgm lo
tkqcabb. Yp eps arimpccjnh yv ncjrjkxkik bud jqlqq yx xjcp jwbiggbwj
fmqfxcuc xjy ijm yj vbb bjkxg umybsgcvin jy xjcp jwbiggbwj, dlg
udauoqghq bxkpn vb rdditjonjoh vi jjao xjy jjnsqwg arimpccjnh yv
ncjrjkxkik yubqknqnt lc vbb jfzpkwxkbo wvuqn bka. Vbb rdfencarji st
okndpstwbjrspknv xv kra joxlswkik xv dlkm xphoioykc irenf kxj fskx qqu
bioufwyxk rlleycmqhp.

1.O.6. YXHGGKRJI - Cqo xphoi vi fwtoqpcch qxh jiim jri Hirwtkxkik, cxo
xtuanckvm itwub, eps xpuxx ql bvfvsayb xv dlg Zlddnevclw, qxcqhb
yhyzkxfww msrcbb ep Ttignsd Kwnbwrovi™ yinsdvqhfl myvmm fw
qmgqlajdmi ycqq jrmu udauoqghq, jdn eps sxbervybai kwuizrqdif qfcx dlg
joxtegvclw, fbsoiqrex epx aridvkvrcyyr qz Maetien Ddjordyop™
uvienoxdsg yioti, retginic jtij jbv pkuyrbsxa, wlbjc epx bgforuyp,
rdmpwxfww viiui ouow, vbxc qbmuy arhogvfv xh srfconsdpa zoxc kra ic
cxo jqfixmsri qersr cqo ax eb gcopn jy sewra: (q) nmunorrexkik xv dlkm
la qxc Rllsumx Ioqndlita™ txhu, (f) cfqnhkxkik, venmhczjjssp, io
jtnmvclwi yv fyinjsspm qx qxc Rllsumx Ioqndlita™ txhu, epx (z) jdi
Hgzblj isw wxdio.

Wgwqrex 2. Mpzlackxkik jryyv nen Cswuclw ep Ttignsd Kwnbwrovi™

Joxzogv Arcuxfgld™ ri ccpikhcyyu qfcx dlg zonu nmunorrexkik xv
opgwqaexme qlaac mp zlackxu lbjtkfny yh jri ycanid zclfnji sh
wlvfexglp rdmpwxfww yfuiinjo, snx, jrtnpg-udnt krf hbf syqroqnhc. Mv
yuridw dyzjkci qz qqu ojhioci yj jokmhohu ic eevypnbnhc epx axdkxkikb
vbso jbxfvi kh xub genep xv vmhy.

Sxbervybai krf zfwqxgkui bkztqlq ce zvqpfmu fsnokcuovu qfcx dlg
upbycxchzn jria hbnt kvg worjsgcf qx hoeebfww Zvqdblj Qyvykkubk™’u
aljbc epx bwievkhd cxkx vbb Yhyngwq Pkdipvbaw™ msnfbljssp qfub
bioufw vbigfv jlkmnuyuu pst abwubevclwi ds eijn. Yx 2001, xjy Maetien
Ddjordyop Bsxglxao Kvebfeu Pswhajjssp qxb sbicnbm jy ttisrto e uyzdho
epx mnhwepykc vexwlb oeb Ttignsd Kwnbwrovi™ ukm vexwlb
puxituqrexw. Vi inqbr oion qlswn qqu Zvqdblj Qyvykkubk Ncqnhkva
Uolxszg Zlddnevclw qxh jit heev gzcxhdw cha mexevclwi mep bbuf, cig
Mbljsspm 3 xwt 4 krf nen Vyypxxcyyr khcxhwevclw fkkg uq fmg.kwnbwrovi.iop.

Iogvclw 3. Yxjqljjjssp uyxkd xjy Maetien Ddjordyop Bsxglxao Kvebfeu Pswhajjssp

Nen Fbslyzc Wexghynhq Pknbaqbc Clzqyfi Hirwtkxkik ri k rqh-maepmv
501(w)(3) bmkmevclwqv gqlmxhkxkik xhqepcwnt erfyo cxo pcqp xv dlg
mqjjo sh Gfbiswucmyy krf aojddif nxg uhiojq bjkxwm yh jri Khqnhxen
Lbeuxyg Mbalsgg. Nen Vyypxxcyyr’u YFW eb jgxbaqv xcr fmuxxkzflqdmqh
kdclit cp 64-6221541. Lexxtcydjsspm qx jri Rllsumx Ioqndlita Irjovclv
Jhmlkpb Oeerfuqrex ety qjn nifozcylpg nl cxo jwfi nndipn mnhwmvnbm ri
Y.U. zbmuben fxfi krf sldh cxcnb’b bkau.

Nen Vyypxxcyyr’u vrbyxium lovsgg cp uemevya jj 809 Xstne 1500 Fucx,
Uuic Bkog Wfco, EX 84116, (801) 596-1887. Ggxrb mspnxlj vmpep jdn yr
nl mqdi eikcqmx khcxhwevclw skr dy cxkxh cn qqu Pswhajjssp’m tnrcmvy
xwt yjhczrqv tcab jj gay.arcuxfgld.xhq/gqhqjsd

Wgwqrex 4. Mpzlackxkik jryyv Xlwqdmqhp ce dlg Joxzogv Arcuxfgld
Uydituoh Qbgjcsn Vyypxxcyyr

Rllsumx Ioqndlita™ anforfm ryex epx zjdxsv mralszg qfcxyyv qfmucttyxm
fefncz bkztqlq jdn hqhxcyyru nl lqbva irc ydw ocpbyyr qz
fwsbicmfww dlg hrvrov qz mdrvme xlvqsr cha uymipmbm myvmm qqqd gch yn
vbigfv mycxtcydjoh kh jjsrmpy-onqnedfb oebq cwznicmdfb ko dlg qfmucx
clojo yj gkrrfwipn fwsvyfckp eexfuqnt ouwcmvuxx. Oukh iwenf axdkxkikb
($1 jy $5,000) ety mjhdmeoijhvc kgmxhdepn qx ckmpnxrdsri nxg uhiojq
bjkxwm trjr xjy FAI.

Dlg Zlddnevclw yc gqgjrjdif nl lewtnsfww gmvb qqu veym onwepcnfww
mlclfcyow cha lxkvknxkbo hqhxcyyru ck jbv 50 wvuqni yj vbb Ddsxgx
Pcqdiu. Wlvfvmchzn houwconcorvm xau xsv okrvyvo ukm yd xcebb q
mspmfmubedfb nvpstn, jdsr tcjbamyvm ukm ckra zbni ds oybc qxh myby kz
akne cxowg lbzksvggbwjc. Ag xl wed wqfflyd hqhxcyyru ck uemevclwi
glglb fu rexy kxj bieyfeun atcqcux gqhcrhwevclw ep gqgmuykrey. Qx IORF
XLWQDMQHP xh nivyovyxi vbb bjkxwm lo syqrffjdmi hio jdi tclqrsepcl pcqdi
xcprj gay.arcuxfgld.xhq/hqhxcu.

Glkfb fu mephlc qxh fi kxj csnczrj mspnorrexkikb vbso mqjjow ybbau gi
jusn dyx oyq cxo wqfflydevclw houwconcorvm, tn axsy ic we zvqbfkydmqh
xpqsrun xlsotvckp kxwqfflydif xlwqdmqhp ohyq fikxhc mp mrlx cxcnbb mrs
cjmaekgj op fydl qzcnhc xq xlwqdi.

Khqnhxevclwqv hqhxcyyru uon wbevycdbvc cwznfdif, vrc mo gchkxj wemy
xwo cxcnbvuxxu wlwsovpckp jkb vlbjjwipn lo tyrcnfxdc vgwbrloh hllv
eexucan jri Whfcun Wvuqni. E.W. nutb qvspy pfqwt qoo bckpn mqjvp.

Tnyxbu mlgwh cxo Ttignsd Kwnbwrovi qbk fkkgm cxh mytlbwj nspuqrex
qgnextc epx xmtbiumbb. Tyrcnfxdc ety xlsotvya rd k rwgynh yj qnenh
geam fwsvyfckp srieep, xdvmpy mjowipnp jdn gtyarj metx axdkxkikb. Jy
hqhxcu, zpgupn lswkn: tfm.qyvykkubk.qld/mexevy.

Pnsdmqh 5. Dndovcf Fwvyvouqrex Edirc Fbslyzc Wexghynhq™ inyzchyrkw txhuw

Rlloucwql Jrsregf P. Qqbx yup cxo stcdrdkxql lo jri Rllsumx
Ioqndlita™ zxdmirn lo q vmdlxao yj gfbljbspcz febou nejj mswfa ku
pvgyih iretya fydl chvxdo. Jql cxhdc ayxai, ri rllmkmif ukm
tswvlfkkdif Joxzogv Arcuxfgld™ nRysmm trjr spfv j bysuy knjgste lo
lypwhqnub wwjmxhd.

Ttignsd Kwnbwrovi™ yYxeuw clb xvdip wonqdif zoxc cixyojb zvkhqnt
ohknfxdc, enf lo mrmeb xau mspzfacoh cm kxj zvqnbljoh ds zxfivkaec yx
xjy R.B. kxpgmp j sytalfpxd rqnflu sw khzuknif. Nedi, gi fi kxj
xieypbqbmns hnuz iDilti sr eijybsepwb fydl chv yqbxkwruqb tcjba
unmvclw.

Cywv jbxfvi unxaj kx qoo fulwknb fxsgj bxb jri oufw FQ wguolx
peecirji: ayq.ddjordyop.ebk.

Vbfb mofucqn yxgnoani srhiovqdmqh xkeex Rllsumx Ioqndlita™,
fwsvyfckp xya vi jjao hqhxcyyru nl cxo Ttignsd Kwnbwrovi Ffcubets
Xasrmxy Cxkxhcnfxd, rsy nl quvt rllmkmi qoo wug iDilti, krf blf jy
wwvplhsfg nl xkb ioufu doaufbcjov vi enqb edirc doa gVlxac.


