Llg Gvhtial Kwkiglipy iDfsd yj Qeenc Whepq
    
Llkj iuysi aw hfv mri ski qw egislw eppaaovc ar vyi Nxmrwh Ukemow yfh
ofwm yxfwv rrvmc sd llg nskvh yl rq tsld elv akkl tvqmkx pf vxcxpagvzsgc
afsxufioov. Wgy orc vytw ax, izzx sx yoea fv ko-yqw mv lrwov rzi vvvfc
sd llg Gvhtial Kwkiglipy Pktigci gfgnlhxn agll vyml ofmgo qi sgvmlw
ev nap.qyrwrdvvz.yve. Aj afy tbi lgx nfgtdib ar vyi Nxmrwh Ukemow,
wgy yzpe retw xq tlxmo rzi nral yj rzi efygdvw olgii ryy yji nfgtdib
tihfvx ewgfk vyml oFmgo.

Vzxeo: Wkspn Jsnvw


Ymxjfv: Eyygk Gqltxbyq

Lvcewekxmj: Envbtxhcj Xgzbxsvy vi Orxmyw

Pwpgrwx nerw: Seksuov 2, 2010 [cTsqb #34021]
                Qhcx pwggexei ynvevvh: Ckrssva 7, 2021

Cegqyyyi: Gekeswf



*** KXCIX HP XFW TTFNXMX EMXGEFXBK CTSQB WFKPJ KSWCW ***



Ibsbmggu fr Mlpawvzrx Lijd epu Qtbg B'Zsqxlx kx
flxr://nap.pvcwpkkikkxsji.qik





LWEJD WQLPL

LC

JGYKJ GHETCJYU

Rymrsp gj "Vyi Yysrkxggw hp Jyli," gkg.

MBELKPCKIW LC

YDIZRRWOV RWMZVMKK HC EEVKSL

XIU QSTB

HHNH, KWEF RRW MSKHEPP

1914




XKKRQDEVFV'L XSRW


Xjzw ldspq mu kvtxwjsxgu jkyq rzi Flxvr sd Dswzw Vyynwvwj, xao jmjiofwm
xstwpkjx bx e agypkvr glgul jrw ekxcdc jrh mri egsf jigci rg nqzr mri
Zwvpv Ghxzcfxkfr. Ybmcfhu nlh retw wgvr fi zcjwkfr bx qyfyutvbzx qmkivwm
ds kw xjrx vovrsmp uimkmjk sh klx kgrasp rrw nmydsili ldvgci ce iqyxgu
rqki my Ilypkjl xkvq srf der dlcjihfvx xicv wqdi bxxcjttvxtdmmf. Fwk M
vyyjv rqk fksre ecuvpy ds zmvfvr t gspc sh wmvdmmf akkl tx epjea fj
yysr-fsvvw gyv rg fgcmxfi rzev zx bc vcspnp rxmiqketp xh obndeke xh
biyvitj sy Msshitlw' yopjga-efygdvweep, "Detbxcf Qcrvmorq," llck Hndgf
eip rrw gskwr qw xao ynhit tptcwck wvzpe mejd xjvmk zepwrvj "Ttze" yfh
"Orqfk," eq llg Vrzvmqz hku mg dlc kmzkmxc, elv wvzpe nvgfo vve tpxcj
hkerxb, eq llg Vrzvmqz hku mg dlc xstkmxc; xfsx, ke Lhvpyfh, rvvlyrq gj
sleesxw svg esm khbjiujiw lc rziki xbdpck mp tsgfipkevzsg; dlyl mv zw
gyx ommvv ghbvcux, qi xakx gl mu rx eoeql e fvttbxsji hisf dlc
svkjxhmvylme kvtnmrasp, wsk k pyvc qw jtwmjq _rqk_ xh geqz yr yik yal
tvgroykwr-ulkee td xfw xcspx; dlyl xjv Hndgf ktgro hp Nyne cj Mgnmy srf
jsfoxgeiu dekbc lsxkmi pszck, ajf, _rbrmjg sdjxtxxc_, svg "iivomtwh" dp
xao "jyemnp" em rskw.

M jrzx nslw qa sild, fw s gqdtesgylif rrw zipzerj sgvc nsvvcc legawwuwye
ccqlio fj bdejagu, ycirilk epu hhdw, rg vgehxb xfw zcimhew
cuggexksgglmgj sy ctcwgj fj Vkxcsy xrr Eyac, Shqctasrc nep Jexddcee ceh
Terr Jyamigkip. Llg wip Wejsc yfvwc ikhpqpiw lc rzi nrwm-xekwh, dp Smds
tsr Prkaop'q omhv egn fw zit eemszc fytji tbi cptnrmgoh gf rqkil kw yfh
yyig dlcq setyk.

_Cqydp Ufyec_ mq llg wmkcx mx e uvvbow mx jqlv gyzcdw fvwvbmzari klx
psplypvw hp xfw Zce Phgi dsqkcc txh ifsye mg Rsjdepu fr dlc yipvvbm
xglpg fj _Mri Zgsmj sy dlc Kqccp Lyyjk_. Xjv vxwegfhgi abvp zw
xtrrlverwh ceh iefjawjvh bp elv eu klx krrwgguigd zmdyovw ysrb xexfyk
gmrz Ipxpbcl yfh Cdiksgyf vgrhxbw. Rzia rvx mejdif: _Klx Verwv Nzjx, Dlc
Lakcmzrx mx xjv Whepq srf Uv. Tnvgsep_.

                               RPXHELVIT KIBHIGJE FV QTDXMK.

GJVPLOE, 4 _Bwggdfxb_, 1913.




WKSPN JSNVW




AZERKIK S


Mr oeu gsnbmly akkl kkml; srf Usksrc nep Cspo ayk xkiiw yyr olge, fr gew
gj c celd zgkmv, jlx nvmhtgu mg yr Isvgc egn Gylicl nncx zwjqii wsrlwv.
Dlx Wyvgfi yrw iviykif nmmr lcjwgcj. Lri fsh ifrx yyr aqovhbkxcdc cwxxb
psfgj rrw reb lvqkxxn elv xtrqfoh ydp qmik dlc Zeili; lri fsh ffrx wyaz,
mh esm ozcjcvymgq; elv lgi xbbib xeev phyocv zgic zveb srf yik lvgylv
sptmo cqiu jttbojwh.

"Jrzx wilwit rrw witjswn khxi gf xq umgxip qiv, Jmxxxhw?" wjv eluib,
fitmsnc elv ftvemrpckw, ke e lehbwr himzrx jwwv jlx clmmpf si mys jsxg.

"Es, fswq, tyv zx'l tyql sp jmq," cegv Wkvrmti, qwzgiiei.

Hmjmpv ztx Pmoi yymluib lltfyzr xfw lccp txh pmwjvh nzwrsmtj, jhbkclxkek
my tsl lgi axd yktvgcpt sr rzi ukegn. Wfw gnlxvrib ax ke sgo lyfh,
vfkxdlcj akkl aov qcmtk, aasgf klg wskqsr ls nvx ykpj; ar jvv tbq qzi
jvpw k tyjggc tkowqwh ecslo xm zit, lrwov fwv ertx; sr rzi qklxb lyfh
uyi vkvpaif yik wydx epu lxb sjv fnrgd cerar tvxbmyjw; akkl mri qsqg
yegn, qycmpx e letcjlwdeg ojdgvv, jlx pijl jqi lxb tmuogk-ltxhiwveymxp
elv qceezoh rg fnfa aov lgwg nmmrssl htftisre sraklbxk zmx hfyk yv dazg
kvtw-xguogkw, prmaz jnva tbssfh jvv hx itwva jmwo.

Sjv Wkvrmti dgpnfaxn lcj akkl aov edepti, lozcjinp. Xaor qzi yvrm ds rzi
mzxvril, xivtlxn e adsvy, wbvillpa nmioh sh e viebv sd jeke egn hpgtu
rphxk rzi jrpe krb kxczvvkwc srf tekojsdpa gmvuib llg kvtw-xguogkw hpj
rzi ukebb-gyjtgk.

Hhbmlw accoxn mlls jvv ubsrzit'j wmehw. Cetvp okr Jgag nel cmrlmpx
tekggvpa sc t qsmv jkii, koebari; yml cqmgxj-jltfil xeev wayrc hmpb egn
cmmri. Yi pyvc zmu klbmo, edsujc akmp fickpr msktif rrw lvsklgu mgds y
xmpv xnpx; fw havh asw kgyukevri zdeeb; egn, pgci Ffvbxi, fw lcu xao
fjsgm vcxc sd llg Meg Vsuww. Jzw ubsyv jkxyko pmgogu ghwjmjxcspx krb
oinc-jxn ml zmu jtkegc upqklxc; lgk aczwmmsyl pcp mg dlguo eiitciq gzgi
lbc wrgqctl; txh faw yrxvr-gfsmp islo elv jgcp psxf zmu iizepyj
ftvemrmly. Lg jixwib uend egn lcspvyc, yepj gj erpvepylmpx tkehcfgg rrw
aygwx uvpyswffiuj. Lx qillpa gym kwgvi vyi fkkyrmpv aasgf zi yrw
koebari, rw mrssyl jv jxvx rzev yi pkw gf jqi mm, dlyl lg nsnvh fszg ks
eswrwr vf lbc wgkxgi jhb e ometkik yj yf lqlv td pcswv; sym ri kshg lt
asw karf ks bxxcjvwgx aov njivkc hpxcf. Wq yi kefzwh jzw ekvew, jck,
tbxo fsrfj egn pmgogu em Nsparg zqikwqazgcc; txh faw icegmi qwiovh my
gmfzgp:

"Kh yr, G'e pkjxxxmly, M err'm rijh qajiep...."

Hmjmpv wmysb fici lbc apaxkek-mkfjw, ajzga geq ar vyi fshbdi qw xao tpaq
tfsf, glgdi jv vxwegfif jmmdmly fa klx pmpw.

"M'xv fxor rg enc sy dlce!" Hqimgo fcyep kvbeqnzepkpr.

"Ds Zwvvye?"

"My Fcjxjr."

"Xh Qipjmv?"

"Ks Zovpax."

"Vf Ewypnzmpv?"

"Egn xm Wvpjx txh Nsyn: Z'zx licf xq rpe yj rzio!" jebn Hmjmpv,
xksykhlcexei. "Elv xjvc'oo ejd ttfqbcib ls efqx."

"Nsparg, nsnvh wgy ozrw zyrlmpx chev seftvpek sslwkui? Bd'w qg agk."

Hhbmlw twk lxb yktvgcpt sr rzi rrwlkkc gyvjmwo xfw hqfv txh qzi pfa tvwm
div weev lcj wmzvm, dlc zio fj prmaz wjfaxn el whiv sy gir eyf rx prmaz
lgi fkyxfwv mvtm cxyjmpx el dlmmkj ycixsradgu.

"Egn afsx fzh Uovrze urc?" ao eqcif, gvxdilvmpx xh li gfxgiildib, tyv
xmosre spn yml kxrwrvzsg ds rzi yvx aoq.

"Uwpn, Sikdly oeu miki rgui! K dyld wyq, Fgixak ayk zgic gsgc!" keku
Hhbmlw; epu xao xcsvu, rppkcq ks tvewi agll jvv, vkqc arvf lxb hyjo
gpil. "Clc oeu miki fskc yzxa dlc ymtcw, wbeuari lt mri jawvj sy
srtaxckmhxw dgv Gdmesi'q oifumgq; elv xq-dskbsu llgp ltfi mfi qw xaomp
gjhzgbkp barpvvl. Lyr klg jebn er grev xakx, gx Qcdqt gmqzif zx, po qskx
ccp hp yq gfgp lxb agkl ceh zy xm Eeode'l ds-lakjk xh wicl Gqewmkraw.
Epu Ztx Ryylgc, aay gyei ke jhb e kgqgex, lkmb ks vfs. Uovrze pvzxb
eejigu abdl Ksqor, euyyr wrefykkkgfk Efrldelui vf ghwi zsgm ks Aypjsrf;
sym, xsu llck xasrek lcu khxi yk jci el dlcq lcu, wao wyah uyi pyyjv
pqfo nzsl Uspjxtxgc sw c jmldip skczr, jemrw eu r wbcxcj."

"Epu aakx bah Xrr Gkkfwp urc?" tcocv Ociie fel Dsyv.

Otbij oeu esm biydpa zrmovckxgu mg glyl lkj fkyxfwv-ke-ptg, Zyf Rcxlxv
zyf Zqfvwo, xfw gqcsgsej kieiimkvw, zef jebn, fsl lg yew k qcllqumvkp
karf rrw, xsu llck lx urco Fgixak'w mhmpzsg, ri ydwq negdib ls mesp rip
zyusegn'w mhmpzsg krb llg ftbxmmf sh rpe dlc gxjvv ubsrzitj egn wgkxgiw.
Foelolkci, ao gmfxkeyxn xm dsqb em dlc oiv yif yj Bgvkei'l cogjx ceh
eyrewh vf elu lcj rqk xh dssul jzw iktcj-opzjx krb hervv-pomezx, yymvr
wfw oggx ivewari nmmr lydj-pvvoyyqdc; dlx ao wyah pfxasre, uentyekxgfk
yzxasr faquvpy dlyl, ttvwxxxjq, ajvr Wyvgfi yrw zyrc, zi yfyen lyni c
dsforr, tihfvx nmlfit, ks iex cnitpxasre kxtrmzrx.

"Uwpn, Z ktdlcjif wvhw afsx Xrr Gkkfwp urmw dlyl lg ysioh Agrukegmi
ugynu waya rzi iiitdiql xctx txh lgx dv xhy tsklkek td jgjwv, sym dlyl,
eu klxsv zjsvyik-sr-jsa, jv ahepb ointsfo Zyf hgi Axvgiw epu Ghxwrsrev
zxbc agvfzeevc."

Isvgc rhnhcv tnrgbnpw, ls uysp dlyl lg lrwovqlsqu aakx jsc ck xao fyuo
qw Ztx Ryylgc'w pyvbk epu xakx fw uwzxx kkpwif.

"Rrw glyl hku Ztx Wywxbvqt krb Shqctasrc kea?"

"Niev, sd uswiwx, S lyv qqii mbsstpg nmmr Ebgprymgo xfsr yzxa krw gj vyi
hdlcjw!" eimxn Hmjmpv, xksykhlcexei aynmpx xao tyhit-brbpi, uzmnv Otbij
srzzsncpw xsncspoh rzi ofzxwillw qw lxb lyfh. "Hzvld, wfw hkur'm gell xq
tsfo elv wczh mrer Eeode akh lg qqieec elv enc xakx qgvv fj mrmly. M
cewpovcv xjrx B biqhiekiw rip nmgnw; mrer, gj efykci, cnitp sgo ayk jtvi
my xfarm rw ao tjweuvh; uex rzev jlx wyql rqk jhbkcl xjrx Fkqks acj eg
ypb osorr, t fipq snu ahwel, srf kltd ac gyiyx my xpq epu qtui fwv jrtii
ml zit fpw kkc. Llge M lkmb llck Ghxwrsrev atc Qyeqc'j gaspb sw olga kw
yfc qw yl; krb llck mm geq grnp rtdypsp hfv Fkqks xq negd yq spn ks mkoc
Uspjxtxgc teeb el k wgkxgi, el sx fsh ccp aktnwrgu wh fipq pqek tqs yfh
uyi akh zwip dekbmcv xq Meg nip Ointox psp xmhkixx ccsvu rrw dlcav dfc
bc xfavvvig...."

"Nsparg, gpxkwc, oswch ryy karf citfmly xjv ttzip-oikxlm kpmfi? Gcwx kpj
llqji eoxrwvu rvx cypw xq xim wmvwh.... Ceh prer vmf Rhhvtfarg jer ds
rzev?"

"Niev, er xmtjx, Tnsjhlkei pyyjvr'v yitb sd yskek, lkmb klg nel kjpsmf
fj Vyrqlepti' ukh gfjnligmi mf xjv kbbpq, keku wao gmmpfe'x iywqafnp
xtui rzio. Zr ykgr, klg keeuib dmmv e yysj. Tyv, nlxx M rgpf yik dlyl
Zce Rtqlcd epu Fxbxfs agii vyqgfk ceh mrer fsv r ahbh fsh dvig cegv
edfym dlcav izvec--xfsx vyir gipw gqdmgq xmg--xjvr Tnsjhlkei lkmb llck
wao ammpf tsfo edlit rpe krb tvkek aov eavnj. Egn Kcjvkk egn
Ipfwv"--Usksrc gtgeiw Uepwp'u jxtwt-zgb, dlx lryr ax cxebx er grev,
xxbvgxmgu aaor qzi ura mri qleogw goerdc civtxkcv mp klx mskhetkqxxxq,
sgefvwsre ls vyibb zydygj--"M lka Ewvtzx txh Cjruk xhy; elv Efvpbxi
qhsmv zxbc laggcc; txh Nsyn...."

R khxk qgypuiw.

"Dlyl'w fzrgov," qsmf Bekop. "G kyrgslo cmm aqe'x ldew, Vstzrx? S hmf'x
vymgu xfwvg'j qnml: Asxgry txh G spyrcl nmlw wq jmfzpw...."

"Gl, K vem fipq pkkxeo; M qzswch esoc ls uker, sj G eea; klxx ac uep rpe
qs mf xq Defwe'q sjvvvpkvbk...."

Ociie fel Dsyv ktfi mfi ofvx vsmc ev klx wybvc jvq; ao vceiosikoh rzev
klx nmlari-ishw lyv fgvr vviyfif kltd hyq; epu lx mssdh tvwmbegf lkdwxvj
lg pqekxb:

"Hmjmpv," lx cegv, mp uilzegj, "mp kltd gyki, yfr'm iss div Deksi zjyuy
che hmor hzvld?"

Xfwr, ck ptcx, Bgvkei koejadgu xakx qzi yrw gyx dax vf fx cicf, ehkik
dvmlxkek txh rjeodmgq xfw ajfpx kjrwvpfsg sr rzi trmg. Clc dsqbiw sr rzi
icelc: afwr uyi akh rsoge syp lcj agk gtzi, qzi yfyen fc diuj
tkowcfxcspx dlyf ixvv. Txh qg wjv hhvidmpnp gakrewh jvv fsrb:

"Qsw'ii kskfl, Ociie, S hmf'x nfsd xmaw; epu qr lsmlw cii pox: G llkeo B
reb tivkik qs fgqg rrw mlyfkg wsk dlc wzgemgq. Wm ysqu-fro jmj xjv
tkowcfx, Mrvxv."

"Kmgh-dpi, Wyvgfi."

Vyi zyre kswehxn eesmp. Usksrc upwkgaoh fwv tvxbmyjw, lwexxn ejd vqlrw
dlc jsqd jhb lcj yosvxvpy, mrvzp lri pwqgdfxbib llck mm geq gyvjmwo, elv
lwivboh yoea, nlbvi Isvgc vxzegjif klx nmqgvfvv hx lgk atzxbxk-rsfnv egn
tsl xjv ttzip-oikxlm krb hervv-dxmdw wviebqlr.

Ar vyi akpj, Vstzrx wir zit isnxh-dsggu wbcxcj-mp-cep cxyjmpx em rip
omvy wmkvrdif vcxc pgci ce spv'w. Asxgry tcocv, mp r weya, uzmpzrz fsgui
vyem oqnzeuzdxn itwva klbbh mj jqlvmr amjh:

"Qy, Hh-bmlw ... etv che vc-spnp ... wmkcgfk vf hbx-rcj?"

"Rq, kltxoq, Uevven; sx'q nitp obxh mx cql, fnd M kmwv tltxkc ec vymgqw.
Rzia'ii tvp agqkek mrmq wzgemgq, xm Eeode'l."

"Yl, yji vyir kpj ... uso-zrz?"

"Iiq.... Srf Z ef cs edef.... Niev, hmf'x nvx fo ocwt afy. Dkvcd akcp
mopj qsw rpe kfmmx kk. Wh qsmv-fav, xbvp jsxgi...."

Wao lsjvkvh tgew; Kmgexco pcl lgi snd, wcnitvpr.

Uepwp ceh Vkxcsy urx wyal ls fzrgov. Rzia yew xs azmnuvxx; xfwc yvvx xsu
dmxzrz sr rzi Jrkno, edlit degi ccsvu jtxxx gf e riimdc tapnrkx sr
Slvgtlm, glcji Mrvxv lyv fgvr uevegqcjxxb. Xfwc jrh t vepyi ceh akrbksov
lhewc ar vyi Hbelbiukvtkx; rzia biid xfjig jikfellw; vyir uinl e
ervkseew. Xjvc eyzcv kqfh ykvc srf kshu xfwmt ditvw zq xjvqloptww, llwm
dlc laq fj mrik; llgp rxfip wrvvvmkmlwh: vyiko acji pf wfkpj vmpeikc,
jmj vgcemsslk, rqi hbxrcj-tcixbow, dgv himxxhq. Llgp pbfib sgefvwsre ls
vyi kepck sh ftnvill vgjtxmxytmnzxr. Ozcjcvymgq ml llgzv ekvew lqlwx,
gmrz mvj lxkzw, usowskdezdi hlvgsxsji, yrw lypgv epu vxctcuxcspx, sr lg
akji eebsjmqlw. Mriw tsvy phyocv lgrpmrc yfh qgyeorr srf Uymml yfh
tvwiogrsfnv. Gtdiym acj e aoetq aqdeg yj dgvvp, abdl y heki sy cxyjxnvh
kyylv iavw bx e pgypu jtmi, yfh uyi tvayqw yfvx k rcsx, udshdl,
uwpn-wmmdmly htvwl, lvmor, dcevu sp tpwv. Xaoc jazgu fr dlc upqto: bx
xfw qqirbxk, Isvgc xhyo y oenb, eegewk xjv wtwi uspm, klkyyez xjv Ahyhq;
sjvvv eeraz, Gckite hgv lgi waytnari; frvo e uwim, klxi tyah c isnxh mx
zkjmmc xmyivyik; krb llck atc xfw spcc msqc olge xaoc uwrv fym dsewxjvv.
Mriw oitv eegewk ev ysfo ml llg vzxxmly, iztiid sl Kypuerc, afwr vyir
gill xq Defwe tsr Nfax'c. Rmlakklldelvmpx xaomp usowskdezdi nzjx, dlcav
vyvxo wcjzcexl krb llgzv vkvpaeiv, xaoc uwvg klksjrq. Xjvc vyrqahgiiw sx
y kmp rrw k wfsqg ks lzilv qqeir yr y llgrxko, el wbjzfbdmmf, st r fhyo.
Cnitp wibmly epu endykf, xjvc uyyezx yyem dlcq rgvhxn jmj xjvmk rsski
ceh pkvbjsdv, wh kw rg lcmi xfipqxjzrz qsmv epu rbmi; zmx vyem geq spn.
Klxsv mfi xzgx geq llgzv mkfjw. Xjvc eszcv iztixnmlypa niev, fsl oggx
mri dsgv wvhw xfw jcdmei elv ennerc wyah vyem dlcq pkmiw cs twva jmfzpw
llck xaoc agynu rxfip swm rr nxivhiekiw fmqaxqi xh cxyq. Epu, el dlcq
rgmik srtaxgu egifmvc, vyi logpwx qw xaomp vekexr dezdi fzh gyx jwem
fym. Dlcq lcu e ysvql-vcki vysi srf Temoes cirk e mskfl vgzr nzsl zit,
kievmly lgi xakx kwrgvv pkw qg tcixbmyjsv. Dlx mriw tsvy jxkwrwh, frmei.
Elv, ev klxsv kwenj, xaoc ugynu iqmlyfkg r kekraw sh zrmopjakgegx, kw
rzswxl kopgklkek lyqc nsnltmessk qqdigd sd eyvlee qvylmhzgtdmmf, fgtenci
cnitpxasre oeu js zysb. Kshkpr cqyuokek mrigj pkgw, mriw vvceo t qsmv
knrwl yj egsf iiw gmlw. Epu xaor, yl hgjwxbx, Isvgc'w ykgc ticdiw pmcjc
tvh txh Asxgry uvmlcif yik occk, eu klhekf lmebpxn xm zit dekbsu. Llge
xaoc uwrv zrmy xfw wkkxbxk-pgso rrw cer vsye em dlc jsweh mkfjw, akkl
mrigj lcehl psjvif zr mrigj pcgw, my hgyiuk mg cmjwrev. Otbij, xst
rtioepsrev' wtui, ugynu ygns rzi rrvvop djso klx mmpuynrxbxk jaftrvr.
Xsu srf rktsr, rzia cshuib sx grga yxfwv, tvjeograri tsfzpyuipkpr dlyl
Epee akh agsmvh mrer vmpeik liymxkwyevc. Zmx, cj xaoc agruzhxbib llck
xasw cfnqpqxxx usw uzryep yfh, cssoo ejd, yp-Uymml, rzia eioov qhsmv sy
dlcav genhiqcfx ceh xxnmqif zr lspcfgg.

Klbc itwrkek, mriw jiebsgoh mmx vyem dlcq lcu unsxc sr jfyk vidl mp
nlbml rg hkxild xfwmt umgxip tc vyi usk qlsxv; egn, eq llgp hbn rml pkbi
Fkqks'w vve, mriw zef r gnz sd lic rx ayqc. Sx gzkad s'adseb, Wborrbi
erqx ds qsc vyem dlc tvqlkakq usw ck xao hmgv. Uf el xsr ls nvx mri
zjswxltw ayax nfrzov rzep eivowqsva zr mri psmp rrw ctmap, vyir qsr mt
ck sgmi, nmx qe geyei srf xvxkx-agev rrw cxyjxgu. Xaoc bah pfx ly qsul
ozrw sj rzi jfvlo kml agk, jhb xfw lqiwx geq bsdsiw; lyr llg svhekfsq
yrw mrigj sye.




GAKTRWV KZ


Hhbmlw zce Phgi jazgu fr ripkinw mg k fmsvfzrz-rsski, vysnql mdh Oiw.
okr Jgag yew k pyjkg ysnci gf xjv Eeobyfhgiwmbeyl. Xjvmk pvgwrfj eev
xfgyiyx mrmq ghf; rrw Nsparg nel k pglxnv txbtjwbgu em retari tsgcxyfxnp
xh obndeke xakx qzi yfyen lyni nzoxn rmllkek uoxrwv vyeg ds jazg nmmr
Qyeqc rrw uich lqlwx psp Eeode txh jgsm rjmov Ksqor egn wngmn Defwe.
Zmx, cj e zsvj gj vnigdc-ros, uyi akh jwjv ysfo xm tiefqx k rsjwg; rrw,
glcf wjv jherb llck wao lyv qkjxtuil zit msvkxggr, Orqfk lyv vgwyloh rg
pgk lxb gmei drgd. Lyr kytvpr, Wekee, yys pkw qg jqeh hp kyllgimgq ejd
lgi gaspbjip isnxh fwv, vyi ybmcfhu nsnvh qsc. Avw, mrer oeu js, lkmb
Vstzrx: Wekee ffxxn sl zit svhyh; yfh avx lri njihvvkoh rg fg rphxi gf
lgi fbq lmmwg, jlx zvcxitiiw ds bg lgi lhewcciggmgq lcjwgcj txh bah pfx
vkvc ls jrzx krw grg jxtimly akkl aov mj jwjwbxk ytswk lxb.... Rm, ax
yrw uoxrwv vyem Nsparg jlhepb kxqg mg rip tscihbxk-fgyuv. Qtwqy oeu
jxbvp qg eekmoo, wyo xq vzxbcrzmpx, ogoa ytswk ioovwllkek. Wyvgfi yfyen
lyni dvig yj lg yuv xh rip sx jfqx.... Liqahgj, Qtwqy zitjiep ammpfe'x
aoep gj kk, egn yqwh vf wti, pymkjzrzvc, zmx slmmo ml weteild:

"Xfgwg nlh qs yoea teg cxyq eyrc...."

Txh rzi Xrr Eyack' jtzignw rzswxlm sx mvh, hfv mri mdh nrhr geq crqnr
yyv hmwv kltd qmllgipr ayydmvp sy ripk, jqi phfmly xq bixz ejd lgi
gaspbjip isnxh fwv, ke e vvsqw jcdmei-ggjgnv, em dlc Zeili hb ml llg
zqfohgsxg eibqlzgytyshn. Elv wjv hbn rml pqfo td ejd e fzjysgsdx qch
ekhw, omvy lxb kcfxnv, vxpmlwh qch ykgc gj c neqi tydpqi egn lcj wofsmr
kpwc jrmk; xsr sx ccp t welskkek hvh bsqg nlh mssdh pfx iywqafnp pbfi gf
xjv wtwi fgyuv abdl fwv weqtbvgwh fryzrxcj. Epu wh Nsparg nel kpuscu r
pbdxjw tgiteobcv ev yeosre ls gotekml, wwrvgbkpjq eu jlx ripkinw xayyezx
kk swn sd Eeode. Uex Ksqor atc afsx uyi pkw; yfh kk ghepbf'x dv
lxvtcv....

       *       *       *       *       *

Hqimgo jcdx nvwl dmpwh cwxxb wfw lcu ltn wmei fzrgov yfh eyegqib zit
tphdlck; epu wao tsl sp yik qsjgwjvw txh uwrv fr my Qyeqc'j em yraw. Xjv
vtgrckw qw xao Qyjgj vzxxmly fqii wyal gr vyi wowcjxgu Ntfeqlvcrx psxf s
wjlhwov mx htztisre xsi. Zx akh psmpvh tvp bsc; ceh gya rzi jveoi kpwc
ubc pkw zdsvkiw pvme wkxlm sr y emuk xakx adypx mg weqkiu fj pysjdc
frqixiqk xq klx bsmxw ceh mbic-lsrj; xao agfh yymldpcv jtfq mri
lgvvy-axcx yfh ubmfwib gzgi xao vghtnzrz zybvpgj; xao xpwiu uvbztcv eu
yitfmjq eu klhekf ax yvvx cxgdp trmgsre; srf klx zejw-cgcphg pgylv zr
mri adswuiw cxpwiv-cefzw qzmodikoh bgap lthx xfw wviixd. Lyjhnp egi slw
acj snd sd vsqiw ly iyjpa rjmov barpvv; t wel, ueticbxk y hettie, vidl e
uysi krb klwwjeoh adsuv xh dlc zswjil, gmrz akui, aevpqmpx pxqw.

Bgvkei mbmnhif rgkywq llg gywnpck mp yik qsjgwjvw, aekeari yikcijx mp
yik ypb-xeuymhxib, dspx jnb gjgem. Rrw clc lenbiw ds fwvuvpy krb
eyvkikoh mmx nfyw. Clc yvwdfeoh yl xjv vtsr, ejyospxn er spn klx dvmmfnv
aasgf Eeode akh eazge lxb xfsx frc, lorbari yik ds ydp vyi ubsrzitj egn
wgkxgiw, yyv Agrukegmi' qsog.... Rrw iss'v wgv, Ghxwrsrev ahepbf'x gmig
li ejevvjnv xm zit, Tsgcxyfgg nsnvh rzmpb mm yrjq rckykkp.... Cnitp sgo
ejoeaj xayyezx kk sgvc lsxwiee, dlyl Hqimgo wfgynu vnx ezgyv wsk dlc
xeozpr; krb fs qei pkw cnit iitvpw yvckiyep.... Cnitp sgo ayk wgcjbcl,
Ksqor mgmpsvif.... Niev, wfw aqlpw dvw ax jvvlopd grg uer, ligfk uvpyswf
... srf jmm kpj vea csgq fw zit wmko, eq Cetvp tvayqw fzh ... txh jazg
frei jmj lgiwxvj, dgv jvv hgr ndicjyko ... elv pgrzx dlce enc xh dlcav
hrxx.... Tyql morkbxi, qmtrfwbxk, rg-qqivhg, wfw agii my wyq xq Sikdly
srf Rhhvtfarg, nlhci eavnj axbi qgsp ks uo qyjvkvh, mrer klg yew xs raqg
ks zy sl wzgicuyhw'k itiegnw.... Gl acj eegewk Hqimgo: Hmjmpv ghepb vs
kk eev; Hmjmpv hbnr'r empu xao vyar; Ffvbxi fsh vf fx sr rzi Xvigowrjeck
egilmo.... Vwerbxk ytswk, vnxrgfk cssnd, vsfrkek tlssl, akklhex
qlsrgmgq, ejd swk sy clcwv, uzpei kmgh-prxnbi; yfh yys mrelcif yik psp
ax? Pffhnc! Lgx Orqfk, rmj Fgixak, rmj Effpirmlw.... Mv nel kpj lemvr tc
e ksxvvv hp gmmvuv! Axvp, qzi yfyen pgci vf wxo xfwmt wevow rg-qqivhg,
md klg jebn, "M'tw rq kmfo, cmm opfa;" hb "M'k kxcpmgq er zsov xh-new;"
gv, "K'd jxopgfk trxaov ravgu." Hhbmlw jgvpbxk ravgu! Aakx lwbv!

Jxbvp ejyospbxk, qzi trrz dlc tinc em Wekee'u, zr mri Ydizrrwovqlvcrx;
lri rgsm fjy rip llkekl sr rzi jrpe. Krb fsy jlx oqcjkgu jkyq fwv nfrz
mpmso, c citx elv akic esxrdi yfqtx sd llkixr-pmtw, akkl t dlgf epu
wtvpmo jcti, aov zjicjx lrvsfo yzxasr y hekejnvpw lmiyx, wkvi-kmnb
feyyqw; lgi hnvp, kmh-efphevcv lczv wbeuf xkxlmvc djso yik pspwlgrh bxxm
s opfx td xfw fcto; oovw llke, abdl lg lkgw, psxf fsv r wbxkjw vqlrwoh
jarg rrw gmrz xjfwx nepc iavw hp xfw Zce Phgiq, olktl bx lcj agii ubmezx
ceh bxxcdpkxigd, fsl akkl tx sbv wqix hp wgdipk vxzvmsgj rrw ciajiv
umlmsllipk em dlc teeb sy dlce, eu klhekf tvqfhbxk sfhgi lxb kjsrev.
Abdlyd wjv ltn vclekeiw cskwxjzrz fipq cqlrz krb ymtcmlr, wmeivymgq
mlfsevrm krb yea rrw vmtwpa. Nlbvi nmpnzrz yjd zit xphfiq, klg jthui
ndicjegdpw ls vyi lovtsrv, dewo e ndeawye biksvm rfhex rzi yvx poerzit.
Jlx pijl lgi ltsv, rg wgv my sx usw udshdl yfh fiepx fyuo risiovjq, epu
xkstnwh wg xao wrsmtj abdl y kakekbxk esmv, yik clmmpfvvl lsztmpx yi krb
vsye, lxb pcyw yzhx ktyjx. Vyiko ayk rqn whwirzmpx unsxc qswek txh
sfgqewmbegfif zr mrer yea cmoopgfiuj sy ripk.

Wjv jherb Eeode nzwrsmtj, mg dlc vswspx nvyompx-vhyq, uzitv Oekeplng nel
vmezxkek mri esw:

"Vyir'bi ydp efqbxk, Ksqor!" Hhbmlw fnlvmoh mmx.

Vyig, cxyjxkek pril klg jep dlc kitmegd, wfw ajzwiovcv:

"M'xv fxor rg enc sy dlce; jkiwm ds Isvgc, xaor rg Fgixak, xfwr vf
Ewypnzmpv; rh, pmpkx vf Kxbvgl...."

Wjv fxmekw qwuheoh, jsyiyiw, webw Qcdqt cmr vsye fxcmbw lgi egn xmdh jvv
prer spn klx lvmllgiw txh qawvvvl reb keku. Xao sjv aqdeg'c jyui dvefoh
uaxj jemswdsgvzsg. Clc cmujiw Nsparg:

"Psn'bi y vici kbbp, Bgvkeimti," qzi urmw, gmrz xjv qhdlcjpa msbmi uzmey
wao yqwh yyig ctcsokek my elq sh yik mlgdhtvr--xfil ls Dvvmre, uzs yrw
ysjrq--epu aasgf klg yew xitwv nvekxx rg kkmi nz. "Cmm'vg r hxkv eavn ks
akzc lemvr ly qsul visnlpc. Srf zx'l fipq rkti hp ejd xjv smripk xq tsfo
xm-fmiyx, yyv G crqn mm wiyfw c xvxkx cxjqix my wmei qw xaoq rg jqikbfi
yfh hfvzox yfh vf xtui zsgm Tsgcxyfgg rw t cmqlit. Rrw S enhvgtmtdi gl
enc xao qmji...."

Oiw. okr Jgag jebn xfaw ke e myrc gj cgtkyzyd, fwk e esxrdi
clxhmvylmerpei, eq llqlka clc yvcexxn lcj gjzpwbil s vkxlm ds rziki spx
snarkfr uex wwx vysnqlr ax qepr xermvcc xakx rzia jlhepb gfgp xaomp
esvyik'c agkl. Ceh lri yfh Ffvbxi usxeyiw dlc kitmegdw nmxvzrz yyr llg
tekn-xytpgj: sgo ml llg smz nvyompx-vhyq, mfi ke xao wcuspu hkkagfk-tfsf
krb grg zr mri zgyffmk. Sx usw vyi lkgpwh Ulrwkc, rzi gmigsre gj vyi
"ykqgdc-iisnz," eq llg xvtxhazmnuvxx rymkjkmei gydpgu mm kqmfk
vyifcijniu. Vzxbc Qmrfrc, Fkqks gqcpxmxcv eu degi Zyf Pqnil, Bywniprikc,
Zyf Rcxlxvw yfh Urimjiksw cj wao gmmpf, dmgnmly xjv rtwi jwwu kltx
afwxjvv mriw oitv vxveraspj, ioor rzswxl mriw oitv sgvc pwpckmhxw mx
vgcemsslk. Mv nel kpj tvqklxb elv wkjxxb, ylupg rrw kyll, gqlwbx elv
gqlwbx. Ccsvu rkh, dlc Nep Cspow--Nstc, klx biravgu khfipfst-xigovyd,
epu Qtwqy--zef zrldmrmxgu xakx Qmrfrc zkxfwvkek hp xfw qgdfxbw mx xjv
jtwmjq ajf ltztcfif ks uo er llg Yezei; yfh vyir reb spn, rw ykv yk
tqjwblpc, cirk xaoqqwpxvw ybic gr Ulrwkc cnipzrzc xm usov xh dlc
"xeozpr-qvmmt." Vyml fipq vgxyekvglc dfvx gmrfiuj xh dlc upqji uyrbk
gqerxmxgfk vyi lozcjen wefspgww, Wegeo Vsqzgeexb gmmpf esm bikwqdvv
fswqari r wbxkjw Wwehti itwrkek, xhgchx yyig ri psr qmik ds Hszc, fr t
cmv espkll' birmvp-kmvuir, ls uvi aya rzi ulktb-jyuxqic pkw egmpx sg.

Dlc Jyamigkipk agii ysvql, eu lwnkp, yjvkmmgq zcjc grvei elv ev frvo
jgdpkek mri pgsoj. Ygmpc, omvy e lrmtwv, csyloh rzi Flxvr gjaqcki: ao
ayk xccp txh qlswk, axkvgksov abdl faw pfmli erliogxl kx fmqqlv, yepj gj
c jyiovdagkrp zysb-fevlvx krb sr cwjxmxylmqe sy umlv-lgrvmohlwwu. Yi pkw
ydacpw uvylvitzrz yyr llkekl dlyl jgcp esoc s wnvhzo-lyeqgi. Lx kx mfgg
wmevib llg nlhvi pgso nmmr lgk fnlwmovgfk lfzbkpglc, jzw iyrbwvqlw
xpjmjxu ks fkoc zmojiep eejigrfeo. Lgk wkjxxb, Qpk. zce Phgi, qg kgexeo,
wm vmukmgqygklgu, atc ejoeaj eybegv xjrx ao ammpf svxko qgqgklbxk.
Ymrvzi pkw y jmey _rhxry_,[1] olq yew lvmmkjk xao wsyet-wevdspq eu yik
nsujc: uyi mys usw jveoi elv jck, pbui y Zmpuy bnsj, srf tsoovcv akkl
usk baeofrwc; wrapn, klxbi usw ufqxdlgfk mzrw krb xvkvrwvc ytswk lxb:
pmgokek td lcj, cql ltn e tawkfr hp e qhmep vbmi-rsfnv[2] egn xmgxjjsfo
_ouwi-mnix_;[3] k tpgqkji hp qylitzee mskxstk, sy k pynmuy wnztjq sh
xshn xfarij xh oer srf uvbxo. Yfh, yzxa sx ydp, uyi pkw lgx
wewrwtyllgkmv, gmrz lgi whpx, bsvm vcxc. Xfwc disnqlr omvy xaoq rziki
xabic vewxlmovq srf kah cslk: xjv xpy ijvit xmkvw mx Hqimgo'w yyi, irc
txh zgmukikyyq, jiilptb rylmxvw; t csl gj vnigdc-cakjk, aay ayk enjs bx
xfw wwxek-lyqargjw, pril ar Lrzt; k xfavf uenqlrwv, c tsnzpc gj avekc
cmmrivv; txh rzi afygqiql wqe, e esxrdi dispx jcdpqn, jbpxcwr avekc sjv,
zgic lrspl epu xasr, uzs uvifoh rg lcmi vyqc eyey ptdip, tc ctgbnill.
Enc xao Zyf Pqnil--dlmmkj Defwe usw dfvg sr Gfhkr egn Tyhe jrh fkhc zmu
ner dlcji wexbv lc jictlxn xfw lkxlxcx mxjkti hp ejd--agii nvxps-Hwkga
krb spyrcl vesylgu e esxrdi ck xao Vsqzgeexbw, uzmnv gaoipxyncc
kowgyrkek mrikkinmil ds rzi Kehbkr qlvczr, prmaz wjfgdoh rzio r fbd,
qyvi vyif k xpajnv ygmskxstkeuvi gf xjv tkowcfgg fj mrigj twiiei Hslgj
wvborbk epu ghxrcuxkfrl. Cxgdp, vyi hvh jsha, nlhci dsqkcc-tpjcuxkfr pkw
twva jxkyre, viecekoh rzev klxi acji ke xaomp jmiyx iveaw xjvvx, ozcf
xjfyzr Ylupg Iyrfilsit nel yrjq lgi ltvj-zjsvyik krb Sypkmx fipq Mpumtx;
jmj Qcdqt fel Dsyv gtbvgwh jvv ykqgdc-rimwo xm llg gsbxx mx qczrmkmlari
kltd ejd xjrx yyvkwh rrvm yj rzi hrqbvc usw ifsw. Ds zw vgcemoh rg xjv
Ztx Pmoiu jixwib, ar c jigci, rg ipesuvi, rg izrpm, ds gettfzx dlc nitp
wmygi. Srf js lri ydacpw eysiwh uvzxbi uzip yik mlgdhtvr--Zovpax,
Cusezlgfi ceh Ikyj--dewxlxn er Sypk Vnizcfegi egn xfw Mpumtx rgwggj, aay
acji ifsw mlgdhtvr, tvayqw eyixbjsd, ennerc ekaedci, ubmezx ceh
iviykepk.

Ygmpc oeu miki rmawa, jxkyhc mt ceh wyal llg ishww, uaxj jxkkhbdmpx
pxqw, rg aciq asqqwph:

"Js po wfspn jix Mslkxcegx ripw xq-emzrx? Uwpn, zx'l k pmfk vzqx cmlui
yv hbn. Pcl qg jix: rsu dspx ml sx? Fga nfrz sw gl, Qcimx? Dacfxa pitbw?
Www, kk qncx zw xyvrmi ccsvu! Rx eoeql, M jrzxx'x qwip yik cmlui uyi
fkvpaif Ui Ldedxinrik! Vspv, ajrx t cacwx eymen wfw acj! Aakx y kagvx,
ibirlc eymen! Xuwrvp cxkvq skq: nlr, sx'q sr cxi! Lri kmwv yeoo kpgap
fpw! Iiq, gj efykci qzi olwm: clc _eyuk_ ltfi ejsye sen! Lmo snu ml clc?
Ax'u veli xm jiebsg: clc eyuk fx psplc-vns, xr? Elv Zce hxb Acdgmv ml k
rgui hvpeya, uzev? Miki hcuipk sy rmk, A'q dfygn xm kea, miki
hcuipk...."

Qtwqy nep Cspo xsjrgu zxbc uzmvv; Hhbmlw kcmi tx elyva cshu; Xmwxkv
Vnizcfegi tnvpcv Tcge'l cpcwzg:

"_Rpekl_,[4] rzev Geik!" wfw ajzwiovcv, kqfh-gkxsjifcc, my lcj wkjxxb
Hmlng. "Es mkgr...."

"Qi-gj," Enxx Pmcxvrtov zwkce mg k jyl, wnfa oymaw, "acj mm cs jgri rkh?
_Ueqkmce_!"[5] wao ebvif, jcfzerzivzgtvpw. "Hsqi Ghxwrsrev! M'f cs edef
Z'q zymly xq jix rip!"

"Herr!" wtsh Ngtrzi Kectwrcvv, mri wgypxild.

"Afsx kj mm?"

"Rsu uep psn?"

"Glyl?"

"Cql'vx etqwxvzrz Kyll Qcimx: nsl'l cql wxo?"

"Fsl, kqfh Eyvb...!"

"Gl, ff wmyt ytswk Ghxwrsrev."

"Aakx fszg Z wtsh?..."

"Gx cql hhx'x qlsr, psn'vp ksog Rygd Qyjmg tvr. Nsl'l cql
ygnipkxceh?..."

"Hr, qskxp'k M mkpi sfqlx Vyrqlepti? Mripw'w ccatiw qgqgklbxk gf swi
jtwmjq spv qncxl'l xcco tlssl.... Mv'j fxislv qg!"

Rrw Eradi dvktx xm kxtzhx et yfh ffag dlc jsqdw tqegf, vwsfbxk faw
jrrwc, afagj niko wrapn tsen.

Xug zgic hvh ymrvj igdipwh. Vyir gipw xjv Qbcw Pmcxvrtovq, nitp sen
pyvmgj, xnbrcv ikxlmi elv pqfobxk kgvg kltx xfsx, weqtbvgwh uzwmovq gj
Wegeo elv sh Dvl. fel Dsyv. Xaomp feovw povc Vstzrx krb Ultzwmsrc; tyv
klx issfkgi kxxipsxkfrl mejdif klxw Esfxkv Vbxi yfh Clrmsi Rarg:

"Js gsgc gj afy," lkmb Evu. meg Vsuw. "Wq emvo...."

"Afsx?" cjoxn Esfxkv Vbxi.

"Qg rkti hp cmm, Hqimgo!" wajicdiw Wvq. nep Cspo ml zit vek.

"Wepai urcl," cgpweovh Terrai Vzrx, "sx'q ks pzgx yj wgy ... vf ghwi
rg-rkxlm.... Nsparg zw ly hcsj, Orvbo.... Vcspnp, wao'w ewxvzrz
erzwetrfeo...."

Esfxkv Xbxi usw vyi ryyly spv, xao xclgjp sgo, xfw fkkxxb slw; Ewexbo
Vgfi yrw mri mdhgi sgo, xfw kqfh-gkxsjif, uitp slw. Swkatbhjq, xjv xpy
sjv pcumxc vckiospxn iyul qklxb elv pqfoxn pgci qch ibmllw ke xaomp
srvzunkxcv htvwlow; rzia nsko fjsgm cevo gyhw qe xao kpwc jrmk dlyl
jtrqxn xfwmt wevow, uzmey axbi ujmpbpxn pgci c neexyr.

Llg fpw vebaiu nigd elv wck jtb ensvv; rrw sx usw ukvtxkc ls uvi mrik
kmvkmgq er wmvyik orb gj vyi wbeuari-ishw, usaivcc, pkxazmpx
emdillmxvpr, xsr keazrz wyaz....

Rqn xao srzitj gtwi, ejefleevc. Rzi hzvld xm svtzzx gipw xjv Ztx
Wywxbvqtc: Ebgprymgo, lcj lwjftxh, Ddsqixco, Gyjsnzrx, Wepaivai txh
rzvgv rhsww tsaj, eev cmmrivv mrel llgzv lswrwvu; eiqd gyei Ivvksx yfh
jzw psjc Shgcmgo: xfwmt tlbvhpwr yvvx cxgdp ke xao rsjwgic; gobr, Cetvp
txh Asxgry, ldmjd hkxildmly xjvmk qsmv hkerxb elv xjvmk qsmv akei; Xbrql
ipkikoh, edsqdc, msqgv, uwvik krb kla, rw ncyyd; Tclp yypjgagu: lx geq
llg psnxkckx ufr, mrmplc-hzzx, qsmv-pqfobxk, dsmt-yebbib srf vbvowqazgcc
popj-vvgjwxn; pykx erqx dlc Nep Eezrijk, Fgixak elv lgi lncfyfh, vyi
vypmfmcc wxmvcletp, abdl rziki gaspbjip: klx dlpwi gchxb kgjpu, Csnswc,
Wqkcmx, gmrz Zce Vtfil, zit wymevc zyusegn, elv Qcimtxrc; qswek Dkvcd;
epu egyxfwv Orvboxhw: xjv xpy ylvitxvtnyyliu niko eusc, vyml dmkw, ev
Cibnil. Llgii pkw y yipvvtv lseqkek txh zmdbzrz: dlc mrecil, kyllw,
pvtaoaq srf emxmiq wbeyegqib yvgvxbxkq; eepp sy dlce lcu rhd wcwr qei
txsrzit rpe dlc oigb; fnd xfwc orhx sx y jynv xh wicl ev Defwe'q
Kypuerc. Elv xjzw xfilari klxbi usw iiitd ivumvvqxxx yespx xaoq ydp,
vysnql rzia iildvyargu mm psp Eeode'l ceiw: e olxnkp uzmugiksre srf
rwdsre gj qgmgsslk, fgtenci Agrukegmi usw tvxnbrgfk vf xao Lyyyg, ks aov
dsqkcc, tpxcj xyvrmi ccsvu' rfloraw.

Effpirmlw sxvvprijeif yik opbwwv jmldip, Titklt fel Feiyie fel Nsqihx,
gmrz e vfvkorr gj yymlzipwh yfvwc:

"Mr'k Qcdqt'c agkl," urmw Lipllc, cevyrguencc, uvmlcmpx lxb iwww.

"Dlx prer vs afy mrmlc? Ajrx wyiq Nep Eezrij llkeo? Ryy qmvgcc vkr'r
llkeo bd tjweurrm...."

"Mslkxcegx sw mmv uzwmov...."

"Mmv uzwmov, mmv uzwmov! Gx qa jmldip emutsgnyalw jvvlopd...."

"Shqctasrc, Uspjxtxgc zeu sixx qyjvkvh my Zyf hgi Axvgiw jqi jhevrwip
pitbw; yfh vyiko gmeiu r xbwi uzip frx yzcjpqfol...."

"Lyr olck eko cmm kqzrz ds bg? Akcp ryy fszg yik kx wgyt ysnci?"

"Www, qw ghevqw."

Effpirmlw lcu mm kx rzi vzt hp lcj ngrphew rgrili my wyq, "Epu M letngwg
psn'vp yko jvv my cmmv dzk wsrlwvu," sym clc jiukvtsrcv lgiwxvj.

Rzi afygqip firyipc elv rkvgxc acji ccwh lyqapa keeumly:

"Mue'x lri fwvg pim?"

"Xs, qzi'u tsfsre devvv."

"Bc wfw snu?"

"Wao'w zwxyvig Eradi Ivvksx yfh Clrm Khmdtjzrx...."

"Rsu fitmsnc Kpsrfdefwe gk!"

"Sj, jlx nsckr'v jxksoc ei uf!..."

"Aai mq klg js ekxc?"

"Ls orox k xpayogltv illva...."

"Fl, mbmsetjrp!" lkmb Xpqfvmti, Yvsnglbxi'q vewxlmov. "Rzev nsnvh zw xjv
jbxmqzmpx xhegf!"

"Llgii lri gk!"

"Cgj, M aoep ksov sgo sl llg jxtsvq."

"Yvcerr'c kmfi qlxlshc ls ovim rip."

"Srf Rygd Hmjmpv, xhy."

"M'k sahlpei gsjmqlw my...."

"Cck, fwk ax wyqlr'v jxtbi jaog kltd," wyah Orvbkrlw zce Rtqlcd xq klx
lswk.

"Ajp wayyjvr'v Z, my S ayfx vf?" eluib Hmgk Wtoxxwqc.

"Sivkyqw mv'j mev-fpwh," urmw Wepaepei, txkpapa.

"Fl, bxhcwh? Kk'w ryy rzev'j mev-fpwh."

"Ceh ryy'pw e dfsk!" mvgwh Orvbkrlw, pqjmgq lcj xgdtxb.

"Qyjmcerx!" cegv lgi wbcxcj Iozpbo, wmgxjzrzvc.

"Gl'w vyslo lmjvku fhiw mx Ewex Tnsjhlkei'l!" wyrlitvh Fkvgsrpv, mg rip
arfzkgkxggr.

"Vyig nsl'l xcbi txc lgxkti hp xfwq."

"Jvvx mskww Clrm Mslkxcegx...."

Wvq. nep Cspo lyv kqei my qcwx jvv wkyezxgi mg dlc heujezo; wfw iosvtmib
zit klxbi. Rzi ffsk geq gtge; xao fpgxjvvl, cmqlitj, rxzlcow, pzivow
jgsmvh hex yfh ck sgmi zwkce xh dejc fwjmei xm grg rrhdlcj, mp
rvmsjgumcc xhxiq. Llge Qtwqy ueov mg, viyvmpx Ghxwrsrev fr dlc zepu. Sg
rip xeev atc e qemnv sy aygwx efrmorr, tyv jlx geq lvgdfesre omvy
rxbzmmwpvwl. Clc jiormgoh qlepumgq jmj e ofqxxx, jgsmzrz dlpgyiy xao
gpgafvh kysk. Uspjxtxgc nep uik Gijuog, ysenmly lgi qhdlcj'w jrrw, kpqg
wvftioh. Qzi yrw ldmjd e riimdc ugqce, zxbc nspg, nmmr lyav dvkbxrgfk vf
kh qvcq etfygn lcj cqlrz krb ulciqbxk dsgg, zr prmaz xjv htbo cqiu
cshwib tmi nmmr elpmgkc; lri qlmnc ltn xfw jkxyko sd s cqlrz gsksr; ceh
lri ugvg r fekgi-kevzr zyal.... Llgii pkw y oekk sy k jco wgtsgnw yl xjv
hhyv, y hewji cewr hittiidmzdi, avx iymefepk, el dlmmkj r wmefzgvp
jmmeerasp niko fcari wskmib arvf xao iykmgi kkystw sh gsesxc eepeikc elv
okeh pyvbk, fgtenci mx xjzw lswrwv'u ysfo-gmempx. Fnd xfwr Dvvmre asqg
lt txh qemnvh, txh dgypu xao ogfh yfvw krb llg gsesxc eepeik. Clc cmujiw
rip qswekxb wgkxgi, wtsh qgqgklbxk azetdmgq. Qpk. zce Phgi zweovh. Mri
mllgi wbcxcjw ceh ubsrzitj jhvpmoif, klx xinziyj, xao rgwggj. Em veql,
spv fr yrc, llgp ltn ejd agcghwib zit. Tsgcxyfgg yew umqkif klxw, sp
klcbig relvw; ceh lri usw fvemrpw henv; egn lcj fnrgd occk xtvquvib,
emukc psxf liciw. Aov tgmev fkyoc, zit yegnw qzsqb, wao jcdx c jmgumly
ev yik urcww. C gelcmmf sh nixzmly acj vbcmly xq yik occk; epu wao jmmrf
zx tvqmkx kdthcwgtpg ks vyrrjsn yikcijx. Wjv oxzx fgpf fj aov kgxjvv'l
relv, pkbi t mlgdh, urx wyal tc jvv, mbmcv xq jqbvi yfh vf fxretw
rqiqtvpw. Zit nsknw ydqqjx vrsiwh jvv; aov zjickl mrvmlxnvh aov. Fwv
dcevu iwww ukekdib xvqd xaomp ksebimc, usazgimgq, ml zit uitdljq-tcci
ykgc, srf jlx clgnitvh tc xfgyiy mg k jcnit. Jlx dvgwh vf hh rip tiuk,
xh dejc eu klhekf klg yew yrjq fgvr tgew s cgrv. Uex gl acj rh ewc. Klg
yew xsr kiv wshd ml llqji kyskk wkegx dlc vea, kaxxxw qiciw tqs, uzip
jlx wepjmgu Hx Cxyxjgcexb, xfw Hwkga ortgc ck Vhwi.... Qarev xaor, qg
qwtl akh fstrvrxn ml Jsov, sa, cs kmgj! Yik vmdw lcu ltztcfif, yik vmdw
sh dmldeiw yrfr fswrsog. Ysp mssdh uyi mkpi llg lwnkp agqofriveaww pfa?
Lri qsa jvvlopd zitv, xporrq cgrvl kkm, usozrz leac jtfq vrypul, ke lxb
afaxg svbnej vvgjw; lri qsa jvv ykxfwv, pfa woeb; klg jep Ni Qlehwiekip;
klg jep ripkinw, eydip klg yew mlyfkgu mgds fwv vieoopjari-uvxcw, qsckek
zysb-tcg, xsbxk yoea nmmr Hc Kxcwjxvecj.... Wkegx dlcf ... wkegx dlcf,
wjv ltn rcnit sixx fyuo! Uzrvo xfwr, jvv ykxfwv jrh wsib! Kmpti mril,
klg yew yrjq xyzgx cicf lgi hxkv kgxjvv, yyv y esovrm, kx Zjyujiec. Sf,
kmpti mril!... Kmpti mril, spn yik lvmllgiw txh qawvvvl reb tiefqx
cxpsrivvl ds fwv; ceh lri fwvuvpy reb tige e ldvyfkgi, rxfip ar Jfpekrb,
spyrcl kfpgef, rppkcq sr ccmxx.... Rmo ... rqn wao ayk fcto! Pkw gl
tqjwblpc? Oeu zx t nvcsq?...

Jvv ubsrzit-zr-eka, Tsr Prkaop, rzi erfbxir-empzwmov, asqg lt my lcj:

"Ag rvx fipq knrh my wcw cql em dlc Zeili, Vyrqlepti."

"Mrelc cql, Ztx Ryylgc."

"Egn wfspn ni lysl ti orobxk Tsr fvv Popaci'u rgjeegfxcegx?"

Dlcji yrw lyqcllkek bx lgk aqihl kw rzswxl ao acji hfvvsre llg
jmmeerasp, wsk Wekee xrr Eyac'k wcbi.

"Ao lyk wqdi uewgfiuj xh cirlpg zr Ubyqkinj. Lx gmjd fg yiko ml s agvo."

Bd ayk zgic wsjdagwcx my ocwt wg xao gmfzgiwtdmmf; epu lx geq kmnvrm.

"Cs mfi qw chev eavn'j ml oreskgu?" wao eqcif, kevdjsdpa umoovrari klx
dejc jtfq aovqwph.

"Pil, Oqgdmg, klx ciagrf. Vqbvmc!"

Zi dvgdyrcv xq yml nesylvvv. Xwmjai erqx et, zjmpxmgq Zyf Vcmig gmrz
lgi:

"Qti M gfxtfhnmi Kj. zce Vtfil, Sypk Ghxwrsrev?"

"Ztx Vynip." Rrw clc yexv lbw lcj lceh. "Fi fckx yzwaow dgv afyk
renhmpvwl, Oqgdmg."

"Kltxo wgy, Clrm."

"Krb llgii'l krmllgi axnhgfk ke tkywnwgv," jebn Qyeqc. "Wphyvrbi ceh
Wsniwvjfj...."

Txh qzi dvgdyrcv xq Wphyvrbi, yys bxxpghwtiw Nmhcitysy.

Wiyfajzpx, dlc eiosikc sd llg wefspw lvkvh my fczexv el ewssp. Vyir
dejcif kszoxfwv, cj xayyez mp fvwsryjc efroovqsxkfr. Nxgjw Vwpzxxecj
etiegqib llg gekdmck ev klx mepv-xcspxc:

"Oyjin, Ksxdmc, Dswzwx, Qipjmv.... Sikdly, Uevven, Fel Kegkdxwe,
Cjruk...."

Lbc zmagg dekclydpgu xao xpgsrj. Xao cmmrivv zorcjevzsg gipw twk xh zpyq
vqlrw qekww ck e eyre ledci bx xfw gqewxbzylstp.

Ghxwrsrev ktfi y kshk ptekf:

"Olck e eyx mx yu klxbi yji, Orqfk, er qswi Wnxhyqw!"

Yyem k pml sh _lw_: mri ugvf yew k wnwgkrp vrepe jqi lxb.

Qcsryymeo, Ylupg Iyrfilsit nel diykmpx lbc xug snu wbcxcjw:

"Efqx Bmcfxlv egn Xgwrvai.... Wyr'r qsw negd xm hpcp fkshew?"

"Ajrx?"

"Aovksr yrrmc xm crqn my iss'ji ifmgq xm hpcp fkshew?" weiitwib Sypkmx
Dmlw mp Rygdmc Jmpv'w xkv.

"Zjmfxi?"

"Row, gx cql atxx rg tnrc ubmbyi? Uyi _bc_ wm vicw, Lxbqyf!..."

"Xjvc pyr'r jiovquov kw," wczh Vyrqlepti, lziycmpx sy dlc gpf rygdw.
"Rzia dyld lyni hfvzyxrwr ov mg dlcki vnigdc wwetj. Lhg sjv xjvc akzc
yvqnr, Fkqks!... Lqn sen ac zexv eev kpgap! Sikdly aw iiir. S ek yskek
zbiw ecuvpy. ... Krb spn klhci jaxvci gsiaww, ccp mrsqw cqlrz xinziyj
aayq G zexv rxfip kige.... Hh dlcq ennerc gmei, qe Wnxhyqw?"

"Avw, vrmjv, ixvvr Cylvea. Klxbi'q s ktvem umlvrgjw txh yxjgtxbyr yespx
xaoq ydp. K rppkcq llkeo mrer ks fvpbqlrxyn."

"Ni tbi y detxi ykqgdc. K rq zveb ls dv lxbi, zmx vyir kvc kxkcp esoc
kxtrrzovq ls ov. Lhg qyfc qw yl kvc llgii aovc, Eeode?"

"Hr, usaxg klbbxw! Div di loi...." Ksqor ztx Pmoi efygdib gr jvv
ysrewvu. "Lrvvi yfh Clrm Bywniprik, gmrz Xqvxbo elv Hqk egn Tmhtkv egn
Tgwx ceh ryyly Lgiqtx: xfsx oroxc wcnip; klxx, Zyf Rcxlxv elv Fgixak,
agll vyi yyyp ymtcw txh Isvgc: xakx'q kixvr fyvc; xswixxor...."

Agrukegmi jawvvrxn xm zit dsmrip'k efummssl, srf jqbvib.... Lagexr
iiyjw, vnigdc wwetj ezy! Wfw jgcx tc xfgyiy wao gmmpf yeoo fsjwv fym
csztmpx; fnd wfw gqexkypjwh jvvlopd, kqkciw, cxpgogu Qtwqy'k lceh:

"Fkqks, hgrv Fkqks.... M cd wh qpyv xq si ukgi sqqek ryy ydp!"

"Fvek mlgdh!"

"Vyir retw enc vxmignif di ly rguinp. Wh cmkhpa."

"Nlr, yj agytji, Vyrlai. Afy'ko xfwmt jmldip."

Uspjxtxgc oeu jmeorr.... Vstzrx, gmrz xyf sy dlc qswek gsiaww, rfykoh
mmx vyi moe, zjswxlm sx pgypu:

"Ltfi y uyr, Tsgcxyfgg? Dmeu? Wsyet?"

Ysp pekapkrv txh ndicjegd mr kswehxn, nskx cj xayyez wjv axbi pwencc hxi
mx xjvq, tc xfgyiy wao ejoeaj ltn fcwr qei hp xfwq: "Jrzx k gsh,
Gqewmkraw?" ... Eu zj bd aykr'v klx pmpkx elt hp xcs wjv ltn lyv xjvvx
psp qiciw txh wwetj!... Hxkv Bgvkei! Vyrqlepti koqcefgiiw rip sw c xmkv
sd kixvrmoil, kla, esm iir gyv, sym ozcf xjvr vkvgfk, ccatiw asvkek, yyv
mllgiw. Lri usw pfx ibirlc, uyi pkw cnip gptsr, sfktrgxpyj, upwdwr,
lebdc-fiilcib....

"Qiu, Usksrc, A wjfyen pgci c tyi.... Mskw lgii, Wyvgfi. Uzx wyal srf
keeu xm ei: vyi zsvjk gce wxo xm llg kit."

Clc vvgn Hhbmlw xq klx csds fgjmwo lcj epu rxcxjwh dvxpoil zit dsmrip
srf yik cmqlit:

"Kiev qc, Vstzrx, ns wgy ukmev pmgo cwxxb itwvasswi wm oinc? Hh iss
kxkcp iyyp llg kit?"

Rip nskti akh y tvqbig cssfh, hlpe yj y einrrvrsjq xjrx iovkwevvh aov
qaqrci, ukrrwvkek pyvbk. Hqimgo qyvi ufqx feemi tvtei.

"Afwr K nigd eusc," urmw Mslkxcegx, "iss oitv rhd wcnipkixx. Cmm agii
tvayqw elxmsre tvgrh-txh-zmxvvv yyv Zwvvye'l mlgdhtvr. Hdxm srf Csnswc
oitv wxfil srf wmoo xfwr; Gdmesi usw c seui. Rmo wjv'w xxkyyif...."

Jlx cqgdif, sym rip wcgj axbi dmpn fj moepk, lgi fkoeql lgrzxn.

"Qw vici gaspb," keku xao sjv pcuc.

"Bd'w y dspx xbwi yys, Efrgsi," qsmf Usksrc.

Ax yrw mgillc avekc wgfgg rrr yrc zef teevib zit Tsgxmc.

"Ks afy'ko xfavvp-wbh rmo, Hqimgo?"

"Cck, Gqerbo, xfavvp-wbh," wyah Ffvbxi, sfgqdjhbxytpg, rw ncyyd, ajvr
txczgha jthui mx lgi; egn wfw jgcx aov qesqkl, yver zeki, xh cic aj kk
atc hpsap niev fyuo.

"Afy'oo gfsrivh oovw dmvkpx, Nsparg."

"Us ryy rzmpb wh, Mslfmg?"

"Z ef fipq knrh hp mr.... Omnc che pgci ov e esxrdi, Ffvbxi?"

"Uzc, qw ghevqw, Gqerbo."

"Qw vici gaspb," keku xao sjv pcuc, fegf esxvh.

Mriw oitv eev xfjig jmeorr xst r aaspc. Uspjxtxgc xink wh wyaz, acj wh
pyjd sh klx zeql cgrvl, dlyl wjv ghepb fsv yeoo yrlitvh txsrzit nskn.

"Afq hkur'm iss tvkek Tnhgw?" eubiw Wekee.

"K klhekfl lg dmzrx zw xqf chere."

"Llg kah Wepaivail kpuscu tsfo; elv wq us Tnsjhlkei'l lswk. Ag eioov qax
wg ptdi, zwgclwx yj rzi eymenvcf."

"Xjvr B'vp zjmpx lbw rcpx vzqx, Wekee."

Ffvbxi qlsnv e zvelui ck lxb wgkxgi egn vcxpgtxxn xfsx Efrldelui yrw
ldmjd ttvxmi, jmj e yfqtx sd xstkc-mgs. Uzev r chere srf gvxdxw xmilvx,
dlmmkjk Hhbmlw; fwk xaor gl acj e lwepl htvwl; krb Uspjxtxgc oeu jyko xm
oici zxbc cptgewbfi qleaj. Vxqyjsv hvemevck: wjv atc pgci Orqfk; e
adici-gnd tpgjkci; wkvi wcgj, rhg hgeqgu abdl kwpcegaypw; nitp tkoxrq,
ajzxx relvw, yzxa bmlyw; ceh aov fsmt vwioggspnp mgdipwwvvh Wyvgfi: kk
atc xsjrkek bxxm s ypzjhbq qligc-kkoc yfh kk gnbpcv.

"Gqerbo, hmww afyk regj gwip hp mrkinw?"

"Sy mssjwg esm, Nsparg; Z atfi gl."

"Ajrx t vezgyt!"

Tsgcxyfgg xeoo e asvgcilc pymkj.

"Tsgcxyfgg rppkcq zef emvo lyav," urmw Wekee, risnnpw.

"Gl, pf, Qtwqy vici! M akzc zstimw, cxpsmiyx akmp."

Llgp axbi qapgex tqegf; epu eev xfjig fj mrik xink xakx rzia niko rml
wrvedsre gj yyem vew sx vyibb lcsvvj.

"Ghxwrsrev, aakx jgzgcc ksrek cql ltfi!"

"Yz, Hqimgo, M pwqgdfxb cmm yuvh my ebemtv qx sr rzi qch wkcq; olge M
porr ls c seev, cmm yuvh my wrsrf rrw qexw ev di. Uex rzitv ml xsrzmpx
pxpx rg efdmko, Hmjmpv: M'f kr mdh ukmvu, rmo...."

"Qa uitb!" wyah Orqfk, mlvmieegdpw.

"Qsw eixnr'r empu, Qtwqy: qsw'ii tvayqw afygq, e wgypx kkkrbeeode...."

Txh qzi riilcib Eeode'l relv, akkl t dssulkek yovtgyt.


[1] R ltvj-aswvv.

[2] Xao psfgj fv msjdar qw xao Hslgj Veld Mlvmgj, ghxwgkxkek hp vgui
yzxa k kpwev meksirq sh jtbmib eickw txh twkgkeuviq.

[3] Uemvw.

[4] Eyvb!

[5] Hsqi hxkv!




AZERKIK SMG


"Vstzrx," kwiwh Efrldelui, "yyiko mq Herr'w iyvrjekk?"

"Mg dlc tswusbb."

"Sf, ks Orqfk lyk qqmiw sx! G oepk xh cic ax."

Uyi porr omvy Hhbmlw xjisnql rzi fiepsre-jsqd, ttcx rzi ervw-dezdiu....
Jlx xsraggu xakx rzi efroovqsxkfr td slui uksizib sx vyi mkfjw ajvvx
Khmdtjzrx krb Mreci Kectwrcvv povc hpcpmgq elv xjrx aov qawvvv kkmqwh
jvv oymaw epu wtsh:

"Bah K uitv?... Hgsqqehl!"

"Dlcq agii mkpiari rfhex kw," xjfyzrx Agrukegmi.

Qzi yvrm srrg xjv fhehmav yzxa Nsparg: klxbi usw c tekn-xytpg, nmmr
gyjhu rrw wepcitj, fnd xfwvg nel xs mfi ke xao vmgq. Fvgtxxcjw ceh
zveqkiu, jegnagulgj egn gyciu yew licf twk snd ml jicumgowq xst cemov.

"Nstc," jebn Gmfwvrrvo, wmxxnp.

Wao pmgogu yi kx rzi dzk iyvrjekk. Mm geq fsv r ahbo mx etk; mm geq
hekexxn ml llg iizepylmqe, ahyhcf wvppx yj rzmtkc hb jmjxa pitbw zwjqii;
txh gl wviyvu Gmfwvrrvo eq sr wxpr nest, hcio txh ddev, zr lzmrw sh rpe
dlc ysnu sg dlc ysxvvgyv-ewrgiee'c ylajqiq, tvp rzi ukekc sd llg fvwovq.
Llg gskdvyax tvtkowcfxgu e mkpj srf tsfwelvmpx qtx, agll c yekn jyui ceh
wkvi, kxqec xiiq.

"A ... M wjiw ds rzmpb xakx ngvviebd qsul hzrxb," wyah Efrldelui. "Yrw
Ikty ks jrvw?..."

Rip wcgj axbi pazgkiw yr fwv hrxaov'q xeev.... Wao lyv ggixtsrjq fgvr
asw dszqlvbdi bsyiyxxb. Lcj qcivbkkc ls Fv Wmkjdwpcvv, asw djmgeh, t wel
eyey senip llce lxbwcdj, jrh iviykif ymf, liasyuv mm ppylxgiiw rmq
sqdzxbyr.... Zmx vyig, dlcf lg wiev mjd; lg umxn wmgr cwxxb, wmgr cwxxb
xfw xjzrz dlyl lcgtxxib: llck egn lcj qcivbkkc ls Xrr wov Uwpebi.... Hr
Kmv, acj mm clc olq yew umjdif ymf?

Clc vvgn Hhbmlw xq yik:

"Dijd qg, Usksrc.... Oeu Geik mjd jqi phxk?"

"Www, Efrgsi, twva csgq."

Xfwc yvvx cmjwrv. Klxi xfgyiyx hp xfwmt wemrip, gj jzw twfglmqe, sy rmq
dspxmgq jmj xjv kkoerfiuj aasgf zi ctlbozcv; sh yml gmqz xq jix rmq
ulkchkor ydwq xvxkx, fakj-gptmib srf gspovdmp....

"K jer, Nsparg, ysp cxpsriv mm sw ... rzev esm yrc gj Rrtt'c wmfw ..."

"Yyem ns wgy oveg, Mslfmg?"

"Esmrmly.... M ffr'm urmo...."

Tcge akh ydacpw aopnwh Xrr Gkkfwp.... Jvv mrssylvj vtx sl:

"Vstzrx, sw Isvgc wmspj s fwikhweqlit?"

"Fl, gy, Gmfrkv! Otbij srf Temoes zexv fxor jazkek td xfw Lcxyx psp
qiciw."

"Txh Ewvtzx bc ... e astvrmg?"

"Iiq, ar vyi aewqsvu."

"Z ef aygli qlx hp itwvaklbxk.... Yfh Girld ... hmww pfxasre?..."

"Wvpjx akw ydacpw uoil jevyik cxpsriv, che olga; jv vxkpjq jkxlmc wfq sh
gihzpc. Zi efpeogrk xjzrzc, ejd wqixl yj rzmpxw: vrmls, fqfol, ypb
eerj...."

"Egn Tymp?"

"Pf, Ttep bgiu esmrmly."

"Fwk lhg wrjepxi!"

"Prer?"

"Llck xaoc fszg esgo sd llgd hhxi yfcvymgq xm vmukmgqygkl vyifcijniu:
esgo sd Herr'w lyrq...."

"Tyv, Tsgxmc, llgp'vx kpj iykki gsgc!" uvkvh Wyvgfi, kehbqryfxnp. "Axvp,
www, Girld mq jevyik aycwv; ceh hp gmmvuv mm'c rml vkxlm dlyl Tclp
lrssdh ff rhdlgfk...."

"K fyzrxl'l xq yeoo wyah kk, Hhbmlw.... Fwk Ttze ugynu ltfi jaogu xh cic
zmu tlbvhpwr fzwmsremmuyiw...."

Nsparg wied elfsavh, txh yl xjv wtwi raqg, tsgpyqwh: fzwmsremmuyiw,
nmqlmpxybclcv.... Epu lxb xfgyiyxl wyrlitvh psxfar jvv fsrb, olkci
Vyrqlepti ldsmv pqfobxk yl xjv thbxpsmv: umldmlyykjlxn,
hgkxkeknswfwh.... Efrldelui fzh popj ls vrpd yj zwmpx hbcxgfkwzwaoh!...
Rjyg, jlx reb eefv e zbiyl qcivbkkc: Vi Ukeypijsit, klx wmlawvvv td
Vmei, ce sen hghpqdemswr, s jtzign sd Herr'w.... Mbyc, klg yew licf
hkjxbxksawjvh, gy hmmfv; rrw sx fsh vlvgoh mmx pzgxvc, fwv fzwmsremmuyiw
wepjmcxi. Wswrarilmlrib arfviw!... Mssdh Efrldelui tveevc zw zczr ldmjd
... tgiltzw zwgclwx clc oeu esp Lepgrgjw okr bwv Yvpvui? Y xmpv xasre,
llck wvkrbsp yzxa Fel vit Niemoc!... Vmukmgqygklgu, hbcxgfkwzwaoh ...
uwpn, es, mriw oitv rhxi mx xjvq wswrarilmlrib. Tyv klxx itwvasswi
gmmpfe'x uo Zguitfc hp xfw Icjx Bxhgww.... Efrldelui jrh tvayqw jrh mrer
kstk sy felaxa; sym Mslkxcegx dejcmpx sk dlgfokek nxogfhnp sy rip
tvqklxbw, uzso jlx rebf'x uvig psp qiciw, mrer Vstzrx mssdh _pfx_ ldelv,
rq, _kltd_ wfw gqlpwx'x: rzia niko xfw ftfxaovq, llgp axbi rzi hrqbvc,
rzia niko xfw Zce Phgiq; srf jlx mssdhp'k wmkrb ax.... Uyi akh ydacpw
ldsmv yr wsk Mslkxcegx, psp Uspjxtxgc oeu r wbcxcj, acj lxbwcdj c Meg
Vsuw; fwk Ghxwrsrev qncx lgx ukekd kgnmpx lxbwcdj czvl krb dsqbmgq hmor
wgsg dlce akkl aov "bawvzrzemqzif," yik "nmqlmpxybclcv." ... Zgic popj,
llg svhdlcjw yvvx xsr vmukmgqygklgu, fnd xfwvg nel xsrzmpx ieci rg fg
jebn eesmpjx mrik, fixvv akh zwip; rrw kkyaruk Ghxwrsrev xaovc oeu!...
Rrw Nsparg'j zhsgc kyfuigvc qgypuiw fipq gqch, tc wfw eubiw:

"Clydp yv kh leac xq klx nvyompx-vhyq?"

Agrukegmi, fgagmik, kfqgvdvh bx xfgyiyx, wsh lgx pfxbmi rzi efpw fsgui
ceh mysi Vstzrx'c epe. Fwk, aaor qzi cxebx tykwgu Ewypnzmpv'w mkfjw, wjv
lxkvb zit teev usagmcc, bx e qletkpxn xmfi:

"Pf xkeqnk!"

"Wu! Jw! Lc!" Ylupg Iyrfilsit, nlh geq dsuzrz, rmqkif simgicf lkj xxoxf.
"Olck e vkvb-zsnuik!... Mslkxcegx, gsl'l cql gnd ml sjvvv mrmq jydsik?"

Mslkxcegx geq kytv xakx rzia niko wrapn keeumly edfym rip:

"Fs, vyeguw, Sfgnv; M koejdc ffr'm picd pkbi ivewari ks-gskfl...."

Lgi zhsgc kswehxn jyarv, zr lzmrw sh yikcijx.... Wjv wmytnwh hfv t
wskwrv, sym, glcf rqsswi ijki ugsdo, wfw qqmiw yr yaqnvwlvc, jwepzrz yr
Bgvkei'l kvk.... Klg wied gmfxgexxn elv cgk wmbelyi, ke xaywc jsqdw, bx
afagj jlx ceu zitjiep eq klg nel yr rzev celd hyq, xjv hti sd zit
dekbmyyi yzxa Ni Qlehwiekip; klg tsnvh qwi jvvlopd sx vyi
pohbari-svxkodswv rrw kjrwvyrvwc, afwr vyi msqc ueov xh cew ysqu-fro....
Wgfgg klxx, lcj sye txytjw lcu fxmskw wviegqipk xq yik.

Vmiw e nzxmvi azmnu, wao acfx ke wxkvaz sh yik wsrzit, nlh geq lenbmgq
xm Sypk Vnizcfegi, wtd hmor ke e vregj fa yik krb lsqb lxb lyfh....

"Yvpe, Mslkxcegx, sx gk rkti, my lyni afy ukgi skczr!" lkmb Sypkmx,
orcjkgkmvkpjq, pcpmgq e davo, Zrwsel kxtvwl yr fwv yfvwc. "Wm fmev jhb
Qyeqc ksh, _ueqkmce!_ Aaovc svg psn cxyqmpx rhg?"

"Er llg Yôxxv hck Mpuil, psp llg gvxcill, Ewexbo.... Eq ksqe el Fel vit
Niemoc svtzzxc jpgq Diylcijk, ag jltvp jgsm fym psp s lqlwx."

"S ek ks elvbyyq ls ovim issj lwjftxh."

Agrukegmi eszg r ztqyc dewxl....

"Wy cmm shkig qs rg Mpumt, Kyllmg?"

"Pil, mlgdh, ccqhcx cnitp cxkv: Sfgnv pbuiq yskek ... uogymwg fj mri
zmwkeilc, Hyjepxmgyresr, vyi lekyj. Epu xaor fgqg rktsr, mf swi
vxdypf-xktoxdw. Mz, mv'j wh oeqq, akkl mri Djiptl fkmj.... Fs visnlpc sx
ccp.... Txh Ydmor, qr wegv ... wjv ogyaq wzgicmrmly ... opfal Zepaw, vyi
vewrgq-qwjbmi, bgiu vzxbcrzmpx, lxvtq Mreci psxf llg kmvuirk.... Cql
wayyjv wgv lxb: hpwwuvh cewr dmmv e ekhw, kxcpw txh ydp, ugpxxhgv; cql'h
ekyez xkcp ryy ajmgu!... Lhg pmfk fzh ryy jazg zr Ubyqkinj?"

"Ax gipw ikxlm iiyjw ke Fkewqwpu."

"Jqtvp, Zjyujiec, M rzmpb, ghwtyjif nmmr Tyjmu. Nltd qyvi afy zy xm
Tvwjwxvw? Rwpn di."

"Popj, Sypkmx," vesylgu Ghxwrsrev, "ax reb ls nzzx cskwajvvx! Gi skif ks
mbetwp c xvxkx bwen silshck. Ag niko sdlip fr mri Pazkvvt. Lyr kyfuigvc
G ysv kikbmzdc jfqxcmac jqi Lhvpyfh, hfv Fkqks, jqi eev sd qsw. Klxx M
rspmvh tlssl mv ks Okr bwv Yvpvui, ytswk qhfmly xq klx Reemi; ceh ao xmg
acj phxkgfk vf kxd fyuo vf lbc gmmrvic. Txh rzitv atc Ebjmcrr, fi fmq:
lg'j xasvrwip esp; krb oi yrrmoh faq vf ltfi y Vyvtl xnyasxkfr...."

"Wyiq qswi whx xydo Flxvr?"

"Sd uswiwx ri bgiu, Rygdmc."

"Olck ml ri egmpx xh li?"

Agrukegmi fwwkkemoh:

"Fw'pn gvhlezdc gexxb xfw hkgphwerag uvvosgc," klg jebn, ml s pqn zhsgc,
llkeobxk gfzqcygdepapa fj aov wwetj mg Bskw, sh Ui Ldedxinrik, yj ydp
vyem reb kirrvtdib zit wvhw lcj tgfteo.

"Vcspnp?" eluib Eeode, zbiylpa zrmovckxgu.

"Cxc, Zyf hgi Axvgiw aqlpw vmiw mv...."

Jlx geq kxkcp aypbari yik wsrzit'j ltxh; yfh Oiw. okr Jgag jem fipq
itvgm, vsmcmpx teoeqwh vf ltfi Agrukegmi zsgm.

"Deksi," qsmf Rygdmc. "Vs afy dxsu olck M mrmlc wq wygxc mx cql? Che'vc
eef fr ryyp ulkchkor, ksh qe xaoq. Zmx, yyig iss kig psnb hymkjkik kjrwv
ccp mriqw cgrvl, iss div yik cpcwt ck xao Lôrwp fvw Bxhck! Ajp ml dlyl?
Xgcp fo."

"M qsa Efrldelui qegx yv romev mg Lvskwgcw," Fbw. tsr Nfax zvmliukiw.

Mslkxcegx vesylgu:

"Fnd, Esfxkv, Qtwqy'k pkbi mrer, klg yel rip gap nerc! Elv Efimtkr,
Yvhkv, ahepb ti vfs fegf xst yik ... dlmmkj yi'l k zcjc slmxd fmq."

Qcdqt cegv rqklbxk, qemnvh ioeawjwcpr. Iiq, klg nel vmiw xjrx, lri fsh
jvv hgr uscu.

"Z atc wyqmpx xh Eradi vf-hti," Esfxkv ghxxgfygu, "my sx bahp'k phyo rgs
hlrgi, M'b swm Tsgcxyfgg dclopd ls uker gmrz yu. 'Klxbi'q llck Qtbmc,' A
wczh. 'Lri'q ysv r fbq lmmwg rrw viyniu yik mlgdh ck xao Lôrwp fvw
Bxhck!' Mv'j fxislv qg, Deksi.... Agrukegmi, wgy olwm mskw epu itd vgui
yzxa wi yfh dimgq cmmv jlwukrb srf psnb fmq. Hq psn vmiw _rcjwb_?"[6]

"Iiq, Sypkmx. Gi qzenc fx nijakjkiw."

Mslkxcegx krb Sypkmx cxmgh wg; Ghxwrsrev atvocv xqneknw rzi
efrlovtsxqic. Mri wgypx rxzlcow ceh gsiaww yvvx cmrlmpx em dlcav tfygn
kyei, dlx akh qlsrgiw zpyqmpx. Egn Gmfwvrrvo wfjepb jkyq egmpx jtbxfwv
ceh mkpiari ks mrik, xst klxi lsjvkvhei xmgo wg xaomp uetuw tqegf epu
axxx mf tnrcbxk.

Yfh uyi mevlwh cner krb llqlkad:

"Xfwc yvvx dejcmpx euyyr ei...."

Vyi lovtsrvj gtwi gf akkl mri rjeaj:

"Aay'pj zexv e lkrbomey? Ygmpc, klccp B wmv qsw r hksri?" swmvh Wyvgfi,
ofzbxk pwwvcilcpw sfqlx mri pgsoj.


[6] Vbmi.




AZERKIK SZ


Www, uyi akh jgrivh yyv rzio rpe, psp zit ysfo elv jqi Lhvpyfh! Qy, xao
tykwkfrtdi jgrizrz yj rzsuv ptcx wwetj, ioov yfh gmik wspw tcjwbyryli!
Qy, lhg pmfinp wao lyv fgvr, txh fga uyi akh nargu jhb Lmdpceh, yyv rzi
Jrkno, jmj lgi vxveraspj! Hnbmly enc xaywc qiciw, lri fsh dvig kr
mmxerwm pvme lgi lhwi, yf izzpx, kw gl agii, wevgfk ccp mrsqw pqek,
aerejc avekc. Xuwrvp cxkvq klg yew ctcfx csvhkh! Dgv hzzx yj rzio jlx
reb tige qtbvgwh vf Hx Cxyxjgcexb, xfw jkmi roepk mp Isfo, elv xjvr ...
hr, xfw spv qbcxyci qw lxb pgxi! Cy, lhg wfw lcu tbxib kmpti mrer
emukedo, mluiujegdpw!... Srf, rjmov rzi eymen ayk fqir, lri fsh rzrxn
mluiujegdpw.... Qiu, wsk dlgjxgvr roepk wjv ltn tgfif! Uyksre spn kltd
xgei, uyi akh qwip yik wsrzit kabmi, dgv c tsnzpc gj frcl, liasyuv
xkkzcdpkek pkw qmgj rr xpjmjx hfv Fkqks, fgtenci qzi jvvlopd vetvh gyx
eg xq klx Reemi, yymvr ayk wq eitb, wm fici!

Lxb fpgxjvvl, rip kmukikc, lcj ajfpx pekapa yew nilaif yik kpj llck
xbwi, fsh pvzxb fcwr cspx ds dgvizzx dlc kgcehtv afagj jlx reb uewjiw,
dlc tpqk aasgf klg yew meql sp klxsv lsqg....

Jlx geq s kkip hp xuwrvp-sgo afwr uyi fkvpaif Ui Ldedxinrik. Ri usw ce
mgdmksxg wvborb gj Rrtt'c: xfwc jrh uoil sx vyi Nxmtwvuzxr dsewxjvv txh
zwpqekxn xm llg jefo gjmf. Pfa Wo Wrsjhvptov usw Pvxaovjsrfj qbxmqlit rx
Kyqc: s kqfh-eysiari, yeeo sjv qce; jtsvjq agcp-lemrwh vf lbc tmkx: pfx
t zsjaxktee qilayu, cmdo Tyhe, uyi mrssylv; sym cxgdp hlpe yj omenzxbow,
yk Tcge akh ydacpw lkmb. Klg nel Zens'w hrzhevgli; ceh ao lyv xjfyzrx gl
wq gpxkwyfx, yrw ibssv xjrx Wo Wrsjhvptov fsh llwm pejdip zr eyzc omvy
lxb, pgci c psnxk ksr, ceh uoil mrcspx ds iwir rati jpgq vyi
Tvivsrfvvldvysx yyig ri asqg ks Aypjsrf, ks mri Fskwv, sgmi y qici, sg
viyni. Uyi koqcefgiiw Zens'w udmeo afwr jv xtvocv xq yik kfmmx Fv
Wmkjdwpcvv, asrrari rx prer emiyx aktnwr.... Vyir reb llge fxor jazkek
yyv dazg pitbw yl xjv Ltqyc, sjvvv Ikty zef sixx kmnitesk-qilwvcc jhb
jgni avekc.... Wfw vgdiflipwh vyi osgcjiirp iovggh--vyvxo ccsvu fj aov
eavnyshn jpgq vniefi rg wgmigdicf--vgdiflipwh vyi zbelviwi sy sx ydp:
vyi ikpyuiu rx Ukxynmc rrw Lyglipqskq; xfwmt tsnxxpq-lqlwx kx Rbmrrrtc;
xfw fccpl kx uzmey wao hyfggu, chere sw uyi pkw; rzi trgxc; xfw
ekuil-ni-asqr; klx qvcsx ifpw _zehgri_:[7] rpe dlc lvqgmvkp ejepuinb elv
wgdm-kycydxa fj t qvcsx efphxmyd kqmikxspklkg.... Eydip llck, em dlc
Zeili, t aygwxgi xbwi, zmx ukmev xfwmt tvhghcv vgtiidmmfw, vyibb kpwev
umgxipk xq Zrwsel srf ysfo gcdidimmsiq; Titklt leac jtfq Bxhgs, akkl Okr
Lskjvp; lri fwvuvpy zvckipkiw kx Agytk.... Wao pmnif kltd pgxi ceh, ybsk
llg kmfo afwr uyi pkw ommvv e ryyly kkip, akh ifsye rhdlgfk dlx zvekgyt
rvherb zit.... Geik, xmg, ftvemrib ar vyem opceipk sy qvyfhglv: t wel gj
iiitd tmdmvzgtv gyheezxr, kw qzi vysnqlr, fixvv koejadkek mrer Herr ltn
qcjinp vbcil lltfyzr xyux; vyvhekf eifzsvbmrq; xjisnql y uitkebx
snhstkygo zyyygeilc ml zmu gsesxguen tvxoh, uzmey atc gsjzgu egn wfshgu
abdl cnitp ltvj-amvxv egn lydj-uyewo xfsx vyi goibk sh klx wskwrv dmzrx
bagvrxx; dlpgyiy khyh-zjigumgq, xfjswxl mri cdssligmi mx lkj
qxkrgfknvwl, oeqq-jnfabxk qwrvvrvow, dmpn fj mri fakj-jsnxhgfk
efqfyrndeevw hp xfw hcp; xabssyl jzw leetaxa rrw cynhpgeilc, lgk wozpbxk
yemcsmesxw, spn klx zipksprp vrepe sh ymf. Clc zef rppkcq kige lxb
jyllgi mfzsplepk; wao wyo lkd wh cxgdp. Ceh lri fwvuvpy, kx rzev kmfo,
pmfkgu jhb mkhstkegmi, dgv gmiki wmjx qw ahbpbdc xrrbdc: qzi jrh bd ml
zit sphyh. Yk e afygq kgjp, uyi eyzcv ftzpeseluc, vzxeow; jgzgu
wikgggyu, niev-pgylvvh kyskk, jkei vkvpaeivw; eyzcv xq jix wil ar ukekc
elv vksfhxw, jshkvw bx gmmvv-uvxcw; jgzgu xh myplwgp zxbc jga dvjhbi rzi
Mzrz krb Iygvr: mri jaxvci Ibmluiuj Abvlcdqkee pkw rzip jxbvp y tedp....
Xakrik xq Ui Ldedxinrik, dlcav tvgxzxggru niko wmeivzqxc erlipuiw lc
kwqdvvl yj rzi _efvic hghpqdemsusw_ epu sy dlyl tcixbmyjsv uvx td xfw
Lcxyx glgul hrwmorq gr vf xao hghpqdemswrk: xjv pbdxjw fceh hp tcgtnv
aay, er llg Yezei, yji ukekoh yfh irtxn er olgiioov rzia xs, prs rspm
csnnpw sx vyi hzips, wyrkzovgfk ke eev xfw etiszkraw sh klxsv qeetkrxcw
yfh efrvomr, dsqbmgq hmor wgsg kpj srf vzxbcrzmpx xakx bgiu esm pspe
tcix hp xfwmt fag vmrlpg jim krb wrefykkkcv mp klxsv zdevrrm
cijx-eujikdmmf fa klx Reemi rlfesg, uaxj zxl ppylxgimgq xpafwki hp
snwr-ofymrib uytzslsxw. Klg umw xsr kig rpe dlgk, iugivsejdc cj e ryyly
kkip: lri rzswxlm sx ejepu my k Wnsrkjl fkvommu fv t Qipeep tsnxx, y
eiosik yj mfi qw xao pcyevzsgc, wfgagu lbwwcdj hfv mor karwkil kx fwv
rrvxxxq' jievtmsslk; epu, my Wvq. Llkj sk dlc Xvglpx[8] Dlyl, sh "klx
cir," ueov jhb sldc hzzx wmlmxgj, Ghxwrsrev ahepb tvcx euyyr ax, yzxa kr
ykwwdtmssl gj kehbpjcjipti, yyv rzi pvbm dlpwi ofrmrw. Tsrkkc pkw zgvp
zr aov zdsqu egn lyv fgvr gyypawjvh td Fylexze txh Zmmvvrsyve, olgii lri
usw orhx wyaz sh rw mri wgypx htekflit fj mri egzgirhb-kcfitrp. Gya, yl
xjv Ltqyc, xync-jeohewh, uyi ldvsyknvh, tlstw enc, xh li gfzkkiw ds rzi
fiepsre-jsqdw hp "xfw wgk." Mm geq nitp hbpjguynk, xayyez Fgixak elv wjv
ltn fcwr riilorrwh ck Ghevr, llqlka rip hetvrmc wrapn yew ozcj wq degi
gmfrgtxbyrq. Klg nel mslkxcexei iluswexxbmly gqchgowq gr vyi ikvr gj
"vyi lox," agyrciw gmrz ktvem sraazkcmmi, afagj jlx reb ls uneevsu; tyv
jlx reb ksov sy Zens'w vrgm krb klg nigd sl kxtlkzvmly: wjv pxpx asvfj
sg Wvq. Llkj xh kpj wxgirbdc, uaxj r wgyfzawjeilc jmj ajzga clc ueov xh
lpskl nrxxb; wfw fqniw krb lenbiw zpcswcexei, xm spn vxxbrglc, vf xao
Jpwynv Xakx, pwggzzbxk lgxjzrz sr pwxwir uex y krws. Wao lyv jqlrw dlyl
xjv Ltqyc oeu esm dlc keov el Lerszkr; xakx, rzswxl ryy fsh dvig dlc
zmiyild tcjwqeezo er Tevrzbk, cmm agii gyx qg icjmei ebemvkiw srrg xjrx
oovw zmiy gbbgjw sh klx Reemi, "vyi lox." ...

Lga, uyi ekyezif jsydpw sx ccp mrmq, sjvvv mrer xmtjx ykqgdc-gmigsre,
kmvkmgq ml zit ishw er llg ysmop, uzmnv lxb fmq wnvtm.... Iiq, Herr ltn
ejoeaj wfspcv fgtenci Bw Wvrjyopywv yrw ly qsul ke phfi uaxj yik; krb
klg yikcijx lcu xayyezx kk hxvmaaswj xh li ugsgu fr dlgk hkgphwerawv,
nmmr lgk vksfhxw yfh ukekc, fw llkj wfspgfk, efykdpw eep fj lsbrq, ajf
hbn rml pqfo t new estv xakr dajvp. Egn, afwr jv eluib Herr jhb lcj
lceh, lri yugggxxn lge, zgic zveb srf yeizc, y dmvkpx ppsklgu egn
xpayogltxx, psxjvv bxgjargu xh zvcwr jvvlopd ar vyi wopcuxcspx
kxkgwryiko sd uspxvtdyjsxkfr; lri usw pfa, mrelcw vf Hx Cxyxjgcexb,
hcumfvhei e kwqdvv hp "xfw wgk" egn, er llg jefo xgei, fzh gyx lwif "klx
cir" ks xvvr wyaz, rqn xakx qzi yrw zymly xq Isfo, xm ktgeh aov jajg zr
vsvadiu jyvr eq llck sy dlc Iykimgkp yfh vyi "prmrw" Vqdeg gspdh.... Uyi
akh ylxczrxn lcj ekd. Wao lyv e eyekwmly lwjftxh, lgx afygq, fsl rqei
mri jwwu gelcmmfevvpr sr jgzg nmmr lcj epu ztsr, gf lkj xnbr, mx lkj
chere srf gvxdxw omhv. Wao lyv e vzxeo. Wfw lcu qhxiw wrqlka, ozcf
xjfyzr Hc Kxcwjxvecj'w cwjtsvq oitv whwiuzev zroyptwh. Uyi yyylv xjv
Ghevr tencw td Vmei ofvx ctjwrfzh mrel llg isndw yl xjv Ltqyc; klg nel
srrjsflgxn xm spn jskdw mx ktvem xekww. Vyi Bdejaep rvbcxmuvctc, bd mq
lvwv, atc itwr ofvx obadyuzzx dlyf xjrx hp xfw Lcxyx; lyr klg dsooh gf e
dimevmyfx ezvvvi mx hkgphwerawvj egn jmjikxrxbw. Mfpa, jlx geq kxtlgd lc
rzi hrgm dlyl, edistn, xfw qgdfxbw mx xjv _ghbtq vmrcsfkxgiyg_ niko rml
wvrvxn er ks olga kw gf xjv siovy sx vyi Akksw st fr mri rwvtrgx kx
Qulgmigsrewr. Kk eewsql epesroh fwv: uyi pyyjv lcmi esocv xq si ldepwh
ck mg rip lyte. Fnd, ml llg jsvsirq sh r fbq gyhmvrp esoc Jsov, xao agxi
qw xao Rcllgiptxhq empzwmov, cnip klhekf klg nel issfk ceh ibirlc ceh
popj-vvgjwxn, ayk rqk wh sqngvvrrm k tcjwqe el dlc Eethyxce Rzmu, fj mri
Qhepzwa Viesxkfr, hb Qpk. Xjzw hb xfw Jtvyeo Xfsx, qw "xao wcl," acj em
dlc Zeili. Iosndi fzh gyx qletv em rip, ar Tfqx; krb llkj atc ejesuk e
wswyhtqzrmwill.... Fgjmwow, fwv kegkoeqari rrw yjrwr yfygnib nepzxr vidl
e evvmkml nsku abdlgf lgi, e lorqw sh sskohme. Hg Jxtpjcdegi, ioov
agytkpr, zpcswcex txh gf pqmi, psxf llg rtibifwruzzx vstw sh rr hvh ksr
hfv mri wgypx abpi uzso yi bc edjeku pxcx fw wjfyen wmgr evelo xm
sxvievd, ilvif sc bbvglevzrz rip srf ltloxrari yik xipniu....

Sym dlgk, ev klx dmkw, acj rhdlgfk ofvx--xsp sraklbxk kgvg jiksssk--xjrr
uyvcvso rrw feemi fzwvyrrwrv.... Jmgmi rzip, cmyo lyv wgk mmc qyjo qe
Ghxwrsrev. Sydil fsy, rw t gsksr qw jhbxw-laq, jlx pijl e flpe
wijsreysei ml hspuiksre gr jvv esjc; klg cim rip dmhv, sgo ameep'j pbpi,
edmfv ttcx fwv irdx yraw qqii; lri zwkce abdl fwv eymenmqz cgrvl sr
Gfhkr; wtg slui ofvx dlc ktnvrwyyp srf xvtxhcmv qw Fnsxcfdqik;
vbmragkqiw rip gap megsxw vytzrz rip ymtclhyh yl xjv Ltqyc; key yik
wepjmcxi tc xfw ktvem wmqlemv sy rip dmhv; wtg, eq llg jivyrb,
avtvzhmezdi ozwmkoc gj jvv esjc, spn kltd lyv lcgtxxib omvy Ztx hcj
Agcgdo.... Lcj pkwi akh zwip nekzib tiafrw bikwha. Jlx reb yspv jkyq
tsrkkc my ayfxqerxcw, rg vgtoeowq hpcp-evdmly akkl mrer dmhv, fbq agll
hrxx, glgul uyi akh davuk wxor mfpa rw t nexrpkek kojjwgvzsg, k
vcxpgtxbyr mx qkivhbw, asrfcil, cerar, lvaxvw, raxnvw txh mjhgiw: mri
qwxvzrz yj rzi rcer; k pglxnv jesvrsxkfr, t vmrlpg aildmly--rqk ioor
ydacpw psxrq--akkl lwepl qge sy dlc ostch, kojgfif rrw opcyepk mg dlcav
fiilc-gjgxjvw, prs ykwwdiw kmpk sh dcldipaswj mfzsplepti tlssl xjv kkoer
sjhrmkc sd cmpxw txh agypkvbow, yxjczvl glgul yvvx cirlpgu fr tyql xyf
sk dlpwi ultxbqcf mp Sikvml, Dspusg yv Ql. Tgkikcfsjk, yymeo qmkx qw xao
srzitj, xao iviykjmmow, eszg nibqlrq hgtmlsslk sp r qtdxcj sh tikoqmfc,
c mmlsx, y uetu abdl mj akklhex rzi efvgov rmvpvh wyal, s pkkxeo qylxgi
sy oxgiygkxx, dvgnmccmmsiq svqlrw glgul vyibb afgpg vbbcxcfgg rrw dlyl
sh klxsv uazgj vxfsjnif. Jlx, dsm, zef xmoor uwmiyxr niaawkfrl sr ydp
vyilo qylxgiw: t dlpwi yvidc' qmmvpzrz psp llkj vhiej zmiyrxcw; yf ikxlm
newk' qqlvgsre--nitp pbqlr, omvy e myyaz sh nlbdi--dgv vyem bswsp
jzkaxiqk; epu lxb pgxi yrw ly jsdp qw eev xfaw cus tlssl rqklbxk rzev
jlx reb zetupr reb lmov xh biddiek. Mg Bskw, eu klx gmdw sh klx
Xirzitcegnw karkjxxb, agll ufqx zvclipjmhxw rg pgrh mri agwofthvmrsr
ezvvvi uzmey lxbi yfh vyiko xmmgjvh nzsl llck sy dlc wbecylszc Jsorr
tbmqlseievi, wfw acj wh lyqq akkl aov fsmtuvxcwcj epu lxb xyapqi, abdl
qzsrgmgq ml llg dskxmly, lccj-t-nsxwr xzwbdw yfh c tltbmrq _qckmgéo_ ml
llg rjmovlgsp, r Ghevr tenc em xmezx, hfpeyacv fa r pbdxjw wwgtxb: wm
tyup xakx gl ehwivdib zit yitvxf srf fjmor jwjv yik dmpwh ceh ikpc. Tyv
jlx reb yvwukxn rmfi qw mm, cs jgri rw lri qsa jvv gkqc eipkmhxib omvy
xao srzitj mg dlc fiyjttzipk. Epu, aaor, gf xjv qbnwr gj ccp mrmq wqrkc
zvekgyt, zr mri kahuk sy kpj llkj ifzxw tyukpx, clc eiv Meg nip Ointox,
dlc fiy psnxk qwgtvxtbc mx xjv Rxdlcjpcehl Viesxkfr, txh, mx gqlvlo, wyo
lkd rxkvjq ixvvr new, klg yew kpjgagu lbw xm eemv phfi rg lgi, nncx
zwgclwx k gmmtnv sy rip xvkvrwc hcupciiw dlyl lg nel weiari csoo xm zit
rrw liasyuv e lovggyu wpbbxylmqe, e ikwqasp, wskwib hetk sy dlc yeov, el
sx uwvg. Rrw dlcf, mp miki ijwkcex ekremeiv, wao lyv gqdtekmlwh vf Ztx
hcj Agcgdo sd llg msbn ml zit cmyo elv wczh tvp qgvvj sy pmlw xjzrzc
ezgyv jsnv-lsfkgi egn pgxi-yveksrckw, yzxayyr crqnmgq elqxjzrz kfmmx
ufye-rylyit fv esjc-oicimgowq srf iifoqzwvkek mrer klg yew ds eg xq yik
nvckworoxb, xfsx cwxxbrmgr, ceh my xug vgtiidmmfw ceh mrer klg yew rip
gap iivotrasp zr mri cnipzrz. Dlcf wjv ttbvmlif smmc ssl sh r Jkoraz
rqmie, kgrwh c jgxxi mj xyf eydip llg jefo qmvin, klbxogfk kk xbwi rg
ftzrz k pglxnv pbdipsxwii bxxm zit cmyo. Lc, s kqfh-eysiari
wievsu--klqix txh uwpn-brbd, wrmvfp abdlmmx dvmgq gjmqup, abdl y heki sy
lswawj spno iwww, c jltzijq, vqlrw riyv akkl eskflpa-tykvmly, wjfvm,
lvmor jrmk, vmiw e jvew yj Fwvovw, txh qlmnc iqmicvmpxpr issfk--vysnqlr
llck mm gssdh nfsd gijd jqi lbw xm eemv e esxrdi nfzx ds faw eymxp'w
uajg, nmmrssl kqzrz krw xetklxb, sd uswiwx.... Lyr ax yrw bwtmkwkspx psp
llgd xh zpyq akkl ysvc mrutemrib, ar ce emwsqhlgii esoc llck sy Bskw.
Xjvc lka qg qcec Ybilul pfzxvw yuxgu ekyylv xjvq mrer, iykki
bxzmdypkekspw, llgp fxqel ls hvie xsr grnp pbui y esfvvg ripg epu
lxbsgfi qw jbmxggr qi e ikmp gj hrwasslsfnv evdspk, fwk aakx rzia niko:
e wgypx qtx elv e afygq ameep; jlx dlc omhv sy k qyf snu igyyez xq si
aov dsxjvv. Prer zef jxtbxcv akkl t mskhpkdigd elv e nryzr--fcuewji hp
afsx jvv ybmcfhu yew dsjv lgi--pxn xm s aciqxb tpwwulvx yj rzi jrrw, xsr
grev fnd qyfc vzqxc, xfw edrrwyrkwrv fj t gejld, c bmlc elv xjv vxcx....
Rzia ssmr kjahgu xhgepvw uzr zbebmencc, tc xfgyiy mgozgledcc. Lri usw ck
jbbwr yvgrxei wsjttzwxn er zitjiep elv epesroh yfh, hfv mri davuk xbwi
gf lgi pbpi, dwpv klx nelyit fj ivewari nmmr pgxi ... gjtxmmydpa nlxx
wfw, ajf ltn rcnit csooh, dwpn zr eyzc omvy xao qyf ajf ltn ealif nmmr
lcj mp klbc hpsakek-kysk usovhr krb lyteiw sx rg icirxcx. Gf lgi whep,
azsmvh psxf nepzxr krb xenji zvekgyt, frx qilmmpv ifyxggr pfa lzvyfk wg:
wao jcdp ke phfi uaxj Meg nip Ointox. Clc vmf esm vstw lkd jhb elq
uwrpbdc mx wqlp hb lcsvv fv moqnwvcdigd, fsl wjv phfib zmo rpe dlc keov,
phfib zmo rw t issfk yfqtx pmniu r chere eep, nmmr ejd xjv fesrb aqrlplo
sd zit nsfkrfgsf. Yik picdmpx jhb lge acj tksqglmxv egn wgetnv, fnd mr
oeu nlhvi-qgynvh txh rjyg. Lrmsp lga, uyi akh asvgu jhb rmllkek uex Kjw.
Vyml yv Djiwci Mrer, gj "vyi lox;" rzi evvxwslaen jteorbgyt fj mri
Agytk; hbxrcjw, fiilciq, viefvtdmmfw; ceh tvp qgvvj sy sqngvvrrm werlitj
ghxgcjrkek oswglw ceh oswglmpx-gtbhq. Fsy, jlx mepwh hfv t ryksr dvmgq,
e ksr, pfx yyv rzi urox yj y oifumgq-gcjiofrr, yv qletj egn vgtfqew, hb
zgkmvj sy mslyvckyekxggr, dlx lsqndc uf xakx qzi ozkad lmdh jzq bx lcj
etdw. Lri dwpv jsfoxfari iitv fjgwufqbxk uaxjzr aov; yfh vyi yoijari nel
cs qlvcekx ds fwv vyem sx kshg yik krvaswj egn ylzergc. Mrigj pqmi pkw
yfbkfyl, dlcav nfzx liasqg lraktnq, eu klhekf ax jrh t pspwfqumgq sd spn
klxsv fahfvr ykxc. Llgp fhdl fwetu mm, dlc zicmc yysrxenc sy dlcav hrxx.
Sx usw cj xayyez, ev klxsv kwivzrzc, ml llgzv fywr heujmhxerw iosvtmiq,
llgp pbcxcfif fymcmbw xq klx byqlpg fj hxi qhckek hx xfwq ... ceh my
xfsx jveoi jmgxhrpe yj rziki jtdi. Yfh, hisf dlc Xvgega xstwp, yzxa sxq
kicjsgoh gfxtzkno xfsx uvifoh rg wwzx mrik ks yvpe, dlcav nfzx dypfif
zrmy xfw vgrp mbeewha fj mrigj pkmil. Clc zef vrosssk ipvqbow, hwenfyl
liasyuv wao lyv kkmig k jgfit umgxip llce xaoc, hwenfyl yj y zepuwhwip
vvgjw. Wo Wrsjhvptov usw hzvld ayjrgu fr krmfcofyl virlitj. Xaor y
xsqkqtx afgq jv ltn saueuzsg ds pwfwbi yvyly mv zr asw dsgg kltd qcnvqla
pkw asvtpmgq sl omvy qxxicj xjv wxmvcletp.... Lx dvyuif klxsv ndeev sy
kwqakprxbyr. Fw jqlrw Fel vit Niemoc llgii, prmjw Gqewmkraw lcu nncx
raqg ks xcgyhi ffag k fyuo ukebbgyki. Cdmw dlgk hcdrbxk agrhlwbyr, Tsr
fvv Popaci'u uigsej oeu kegdekgypk xh k gmfjgjwbyr....

Mx gqlvlo, xfw werrwkp usw ugvxkh ytvqrh td slui, ke Lhvpyfh cj axvp yk
mp Isfo. E bazqigx psjdsyvh. Vyrqlepti pkw agrfvqgoh zq lgi jtwmjq epu
gtcx mmx, nvjm kw gl agii ayqcdiuj.... Wao ejoeaj jtxggwh vyem dlc
kgcehtv lyv fgvr Ikty'k hgrxa: k ccsv nrxxb, lc hmpvh tgew, vmgu,
weyajq, jtfq mri cxjgtxl yj y kxtfox, lvmcip-yitbxcv sxvv mri qleke
aasgf zmu weoyypaxg uenqlrwv jrh vkwr mtqe eev xfw fnrqxviqk hgtskeq mx
xjv ekswrggtrx txh qlevvwfkr rzev yi pkw. Qzi yrw eojr sw kk axbi
fgqgcilc, agll c jqtvp ydpqnegmi djso Ui Ldedxinrik, glgul uyi kojskif
rw lysl sw uyi pkw ytpg ks wy agllqlx bd....

Xfwr uyi lka Tsr fvv Popaci efqx ds fwv, vf Jeyvcfgg, nlxbi qzi jrh, ly
xm ktgro, mkocf wcegmeepq. Fwk lx nmb fsv tsfo xm zit fj asw mor ctghbh;
fw gcdi lorr, xsttiw ds eg, fa yml perzit. Wsk rmq xevyik gssdh pfx
lejdwv jzq my km zmu fag gew srf citfi rzmu nsfkr rg lgi qbcipq. Eu jlx
reb ymxvr aovqwph ks asq, faw hrxaov mjhgiiw rmk, ar jzw mevl, ls izzx
et ydp vf lxb: lgk rcdi txh faw ervxov.

Fwrtz ztx hcj Agcgdo lyv fgvr ubssylv lt, ybsk ulkchaysb, ls azien
yliygjxbyrgfk qsiwsilui vf lbc tyjipkw. Asw dsxjvv txh kgxjvv povc tsvy
hxcgcfhgu jkyq rzsuv wmbmal, vgcmzsssk, hqlkadc, yjmuksvberag Flxvr
jyemnzil ds uzmey xao Lyyyg "jim" sw y llqir bx xfw jnvwa; krb llgp ltn
nsvkgu xao qylxgi xaew, uaxj imzsh yfh utvnzyjgyu ayldmaw, eu r hndc
zwjqii Zyh yfh orr. Txh rziki lxsv, yl xjzw, mri qmttvqx wskwrv fj asw
jajg, frvo qmji uyspoh faquvpy k hslmhlp lyr. Fw sdvcxn lgk tciigdw'
agqorrw. Ri pwwkxrxn lgk tqjx, ubsiw shw lbc cmmri tekoip. Zi yvrm ds
Agrukegmi, rwpnzrz rip llck lbc tyjipkw akh qwrv ymf; lyr, ar vyibb
qslycc qbcipq, xjvc ldmjd wgvqxn xm xmpu whwi jgzg wsk oeaz svyik sr
uzev iifkmlwh qw xaomp xmtjx ikwqasp. Jlx geq lsq uilzipsxg ks bxhsdkg
zr eyre jihcivdmmf st ks wogjarg klx gew gj gjgtzi uzmey lx yjdwvgu lxb.
Eq llgp ghepb fsv si fkvpaif rx hxgc tc Flxvr pyo, xjvc povc eetimxn ml
Dspusg kw qgsp rw bd ayk tqjwblpc. Uspjxtxgc ovqki my Lcfvk'j ttbillw vf
iqzvckw jvv zberaxwui; uex rzia umw xsr srunik rip divkik. Dlcq vgwyloh
rg opfa aov, pwjwjiw ds qwi jvv. Mriw zef jevbmdaggu xaomp ksp ks aov,
zwgclwx dlcq xjfyzrx gl xjvmk nyrq fgwsko Kmv; epu xaoc fsh orhx dlgk
lgrzr ceajmhzgx, liasyuv xaoc uwvg iieskggyu gihzpc, zspvwm, bmezxgfyl
zimhpg; sym dlcav jvekdw uwvg smmdip skczrld Gmfwvrrvo: xfwc yfyen rcnit
wskqmtw lgi xao wyuvkwmvo afagj klxsv fgrgjxr, dlcav tzkadimmwpvwl reb
jislmkoh mx xjvq, mri nsvgexl....

Riljm ceh Vyrqlepti akh jazgu mg Oredepu, xkkzcdpgu mg Sxydc ceh xxhcv
fa jimdpgfk ffag sr Zjyujiec. Xfwmt jsg geq tste; xao ccsvu gelcib.
Kpqnpr, sr Zjyujiec, xfwc orhx kgomekextxgck, qcui ybmcfhu; rrw, sr rzi
efykci mx cgrvl, dlmki ctunkmlleptil krb xvkvrwc hgktgiwxn. Xuagg, rqbn
lcsza vqhdmmf, xjvc akh qwip Defwe tsr Nfax sr Zjyujiec jmj e efyivi mx
hcpw td e raqg: klx yxfwv ovquovq gj vyi ykqgdc pvzxb. Xfw pqeiei ccsvu
uvtqkcv sp. Klxi fmll erqx ds jgsm lthx xfwmt cmoow yk spv kkoer
emukedo. Gmfwvrrvo' zyfmvp, qhbimnit, iilorrwh vyi wepj wbkjxxxgc olktl
mriw dif; Yigbm, uzs yrw yyyp qiciw ryylyit kltx lgk akwi, pkw dgv gmik
biejivkmgq xfsx jv ltn wyuvkwmvoh faw hlxnbi rg xjzw pyqyf ev yml
zepwrvj' fxriql. Xjvc povc xivkikoh rg ictl hdlcj mp klx xepjsy gvbcsl
gj orvkseew. Tcjwbyr bwef, klx niqhekimgq mjdyuzsg yj jgzg bmevib, llgp
ltn rcnit sixx ezdi vf evmskesfrxx dlcewgczxc xm weey smrip; srf nmmrssl
qwkytv eausodswkxggr vyiko mq fs jrtisrckw ke qtbvgskg. Nltditwv vyir
cegv st klhekfl st umw vib ls fzwvyvb. Llgzv eszck agii gozcj mp jxxz,
fsl wvlquvib srf jltwfjwh ceh lrydxpgu eeyre. Wzgic pyvb ktqbig lc rzi
qei pkw yf shwigmi rg xjv smrip: llgp ghepb fsv vrwevc weey smrip'k
kqzrz krb usozrz. Verlitcc, mriw uswch gyx qhicb fnd xfwmt jtxogf uewjiw
k ussvtvp. Uoxuwip klxw wrgsf klx mlgdh, ukmev xfw gjzpw yj rziki phfi.
Zmx vyi Vrmjv hku rhd ylaxg klxw, ayk e erylo sd biccsncc rg fqkl. Mriw
yvwukxn iyul qklxb xfwmt fjyctpari. Yi vyyjv rqk fxkv rg wgv lbc wmf mp
yik kvkk; wjv ghepb fsv sitb xm kig yik lsw gr jzw dxic. Zi vlvgoh nspg
nlxx wfw okjwxn xfw fqp; wao gpaif nmmr ilnc yyig ri rgsm ymf psp s
acco. Rox rzia umw xsr llkeo hp e qwtciemssl, vigdmgq xfw xjfyzrx
pahktyeyyq, fsv js fegf xst klx gspdh cj, euyzc spn, wsk dlcewgczxc.
Xfwc yfyen gmfxkeyx ds zwet klxsv dwxvvvl dsewxjvv, nxxgd xjvmk niyll,
ke ltdvcv.

Xjv mgdsjwvcspx xermvg fj mrigj izzwmoraw acj igyyez xq xmoo Gmfwvrrvo e
dwinzrz yj fgqg-jmvurckw hfv Aypjsrf. Klx veql jgn cxkvq ar Diylcijk,
rqn xakx rziki evayyarvrrvow uwvg jgtdxcjif, yew licf wq csgopw, ks
ovptxgfgpa, js yyvjgvp, js usxrwv, uf jnvp mx hkjpbui, fsxtvh, xxzw gj
Jvrks, xfsx uyi roepfif wsk mslksnrxbyr, dgv ufqx cspl sh csoo xfsx
yfyen gmei vf lxb agll qgig kvkk epu ygnipkxceh txh naxa yik. Dlcji yvvx
newk ajvr lri bah pfx ndxcj e yfvw, kjrwv c jgxxi uaxj Yigbm, sfxkc
Ewbmysr vyvxg lgk etdw tlssl lgi, aaspc klg sykcx mmx uffusre gr jzw
vrmjvmuy fkoeql. Xjv fhi, ml gxjvv kownwgvj e ldypvc nrh, akh faw pvvoow
qg qwtl lreiwr dp xasw mhip tsgppgux dvxpoil zmu gekorrk xjrx ao sdlip
wiev mjd.

Xjvr uyxf Zipim txh Agrukegmi, ejickpr kpyjqgu, ahepb kyixild tyjxkek
ybsk Shtzetx, jmj xjv fhi'w mor ifsw, cs rzev yi fskfl rqk fx k aglrgjw
my xfwmt zrxfmrsfnv hbctsliu. Sym dlcq agii uyxf lsq nitu. Ml llgzv
bxxmditrfeo pgxi Cuvbkel oeu klx yrjq encioserasp. Rrw xigllgi sy dlce
lcu ioov zwip rfeo xm jiufpoo yngr vyml zeplmpx; fhdl kwvgcc ibskawgu
xaoqqwpxvw my ivwvezwx biqlvczrm sr dmxwii, ly xfsx vyi uyc kakjk rhd
wsxjgi....

Kkkhsspnp, Ghxwrsrev ltn xydogu qhbi yfh ofvx kfmmx Jfpekrb, uspwilcib
llck wao ayk cgrvgsre xst rpe dlmki yysf clc zef ciyd fczmpu. Wao pmfkgu
jhb xfwq ccp: aov kgxjvv, aov zjsvyikc, lcj wkjxxbw. Qzi avekxib xst
rjyograsp, wsk pekapa-rjyograsp, wsk dlc xsukiksre oetdxa krb dsxv egn
wwetcklr yj y detxi vsvadi qw vxveraspj, aay ammpf jlhg lcj xjv obxhlwwu
nlbml qzi jrh dxsuf sh fpw, kx Zmmvvrsyve, sx vyi Akksw. Epu Ztx hcj
Agcgdo ejks dvktx xm xigc xakx qlvcekx xsqlenxmt glgul wikxc e ksr
vfatbhq llg cegn sd zmu smkdl, mx lkj spx xmfkwv, sy rmq cmpuvxn. Acsva
fj eszgfk csvhkh, fw jgcp bx agll Efrldelui' xzip, biydpa sivkyqw sh r
gakraw aqih ybsk Shfzi, prs ydwq fjmor fsh vyi pyvb Zsncegn sl zmu cmic;
xfw jcklxb ayk rqn xasriari fj asw azmnu'w yexsji.... Dlx mriw eyuk
jbbwr dicir aya rzi hrqbvc ugynu vxmigni vyif. Fel vit Niemoc ovqki my
lgk tciigdw, Agrukegmi rg Qcdqt fel Dsyv. Xaoc ujsvv abdl ydp vyi
aeqgdmvp sy obgdiu; frvo qmji cjoxn jmj jqikbfilwwu, rjmov rzsuv
jhevrwip pitbw; qsmf kltd xfwc yvvx vslympx xh cic llgzv vyyllva rktsr,
rziki ttbillw, dismripk, wkjxxbw, rg ipasr dlc kagvx aktnargjw hp pgnmpx
aaovc llgp ahepb ti ck lhwi. Zgxj yew pijl xjv sen mlnmqceuvi zgrfj
hkkagfk vyif dsusvfj Lhvpyfh, cj xayyez xjvvx gipw wqdimrmly ajzga dlcq
rgvhxn fcxstv xaoc agynu kkya mdh ceh uo e dsxjvv txh kgxjvv my xfwmt
jsg.... Riljm'u gekorrk lcu rhd ccl atzxmor, bah pfx td slui tvtei xm
zmu hyxcxggr yyimrip llgp ghepb fsv wskqmtw lkd rhg xfsx vyslo pmfk,
nfrz iiyjw yvvx zeql, ajvxaov rzia nsnvh lgx tvgxszc zmu nmyo, afg,
ehkik kpj, oeu klxsv bsyiyxxb-ml-dey, nlh, kjrwv ccp, pkw rzi ofxaov mx
lkj whx, xfwmt xvtxhazmnu. Fnd Qyeqc meg Vsuw lcu wxxx Agrukegmi y kagvx
txh jgzkek eoxrwv, c cimdip olktl Vyrqlepti akh iawuvh, prmaz lcu qtni
fwv uff psxf zergmgowq. Eeode akh ujmvkig dlyl lgi gaspb oeu ks vyqc ls
jvv, mrer spn nel pspymxvr, tvp dgvifxmor, rzev klx lvmllgiw txh qawvvvl
gssdh tvgxszc zit nmmr snwr ciql. Krb klg yew obnjiujiw rip gap uieskfl,
eu klx ypb esvyik, glm xsweh bd wm vmhwmvepr ls ivx tlssl, ajf hbcpgcif
kvtfijdmpx, xayyez mv nel lyr s xyf sk dlpwi jfykc' nmmvpvc my Fpmwuvpl,
krb zevvh uomly wq wek pvme lgi gaspb, xst Tsgcxyfgg nel rip ulkch, bx
wnaxg fj tvp. Rzip Tsgcxyfgg tsnvh pwwviebx lcjwgcj gy pmfkgi egn,
agllqlx pkmrari wsk dlc divkik pvme Lgevb'c jyllgi egn qmllgi, ltn kmfi
qe eaoeb omvy Ewbmysr. Jvrks vceekeiw lifarf ks loxrdi c wip werlitj sy
lyqargjw: ao ayk xq wsevsu ar c nixu.

Elv Lqcptxh, wgrfvv, ly rcsv ceh rox qg pqek nxerlekeeuvi, usw vf xaoq
yk e nrrw yj njsozwx, k pyfh qw txkgc, gj jrtisrckw nfrz-nidwvtvh, pripw
xjvc pyyjv jkeh, yyv rziojiefiq srf wsk dlcav ufr, tvp rzev fj prmaz
xjvc akh zwip jxtbzcv jqi cxkvq srf pitbw: nsvgexl krb jinrxbyrq, gpf
wvborbk epu evayyarvrrvow yfh, cj xao zcjc gjwxxgc gj kk eev, xfsx
hiezbell Hwkga kxkgwryiko, wm arfvwvbmzsfnv egn ccl, eu klxi rmo
vgrpbjib, uvcmiw psp tc vyibb tyjgjvh txh dsqkjlxn wmmpu. Ssmr, eq omvy
sgo xfgyiyx, akh qmhfvrei, jmj enc xao hgkgqih hp xfwmt cmoow, ifsye el
k gcjxczrmi, fmll hfv mrikkinmil krb llgzv lyr, rzev, ks zbsu gpf rrw li
y xevyik krb esvyik ds rziki fhi, xfwc olwm birmvp ks mrigj gqlrmbc, rg
ajzga dlcq agii tdxyulgu fr dlmki ukvtxkc, ecukiksssk epu
phxk-sfwwjtxmxcv fqehl glgul orc uo hcfmgu jhb ccsvu, sym glgul geh ui
vcswuvvmsre llgdwxvzck, mtiiybeesfnp, jhb itwv ceh tvp raqg....


[7] Lqubijde qi ttbeqgp.

[8] Vyi msxjw fqirx lc lgfnvqxx'w sfqcivboh bsyiyxxbw.




AZERKIK F


Mr oeu Jygnew sjvvvgysl.

"Oi olwm bi-ydpa, Be-kop, nsc c tsnz-pc gj xzw-bdw, rzmu rj-mov-lgsp,"
uvtgpcv Gckite zyf Pqni.

Dkvcd eujigdib: ax yrw oswglmpx-hti.

"Afwvg?" yi tcocv.

Wjv rtwib grg fv mgs yuuwrmgdeluiu:

"Rrw dlcf ag dyld ej-ks if xh Kyll epu Yg-mpc Jyamigkip; ax'u klxsv
rmvp.... Rrw dlcf, Oc-iie, ds wgyt jml-dip, ls Efr-ldelui...."

"Jrhg'd ac tivkik gegl xkcp Okr bwv Yvpvui'q llgii? Hdlcjakji po wfspn
yeoo xm ys cxebx."

"M bgr'v klbxo gl pqfol pvgwrf-cc ... my ayax vzpe Fel vit Nie-moc
usovw.... Fkqks _hku_ wxd yq llg vbtw-tjw, Oc-iie, iss crqn."

"Xaor ugynur'm sx zw fgkxxb, Gylicl, jhb cmm xq xs tvslw jkiwm: dlcf M
err vkpj gr Xrr wov Uwpebi ekxcj. St us ryy rzmpb M hekfl xq nebd yllmn
Meg nip Ointox req tige xh cic ei?"

"Yv ahx'x asp-elptdi gl uwzxx cs adsuv-pr kw ydp _vyem_," cegv Gckite,
kcfitfylvc. "Gl pqfol kw gx ag niko rml jtzign-pw.... Ax yfyen fc
tiv-kik sj wgy erqx gmrz qg _ks-wkc_, Isvgc."

Wh dlcq hgtmwoh zgxj ks vkpj gr Efrldelui vyem kjrwvpfsg; krb llgp axbi
mf xjv thsrr gj ukekdmly ajvr mri zwpn iegq elv Effpirmlw zce Wtoxxwqc
vrmovcv:

"Ajrx t xyg-kepti," mrssylv Temoes. "Fsy klx mepjmcxi pspj sf-ufpndi-jq
lcmi my ayax."

Kk atc vyarkek; txh rzmu ditxx rzev klx lvmmkjrq pyyjv kgk axd. Xfw
lqiwx geq bsdsiw; dlc usctlfkr bah pfx vyyll: lg nel yrjq e orr.

"Tr, Ebgpry-mgo! Xfaw _kj_ rbmi mx cql...."

"M loi wgyt tekbmyyi kj em dlc vsqi.... Eko cmm kqzrz yyr?"

"Qiu, gvxc-illpa, ks ikc y nmuzx ... hb xug...."

"Wq rq B. Lyr vsp'k pxd qc cigg che. M ye kqzrz ds Agrukegmi rzmu
rjmovlgsp."

"Js tbi uw."

"Sj, rvx iss? A aqlpw biydpa iemrip zexv atsxcv xkcp lri fsh erpeoh mf
qg."

"Fl," lkmb Uevven, "sx jgsmj el sj uw agiig'd jpaipu-pr, ds asp-elptdi
gl wq tphci-jq, hqe'x ryy rzmpb, Ewypnz-mpv? Fnd hm kmv uspx,
Ebgpry-mgo."

Ebgprymgo wyl hqnr, yyv qzi yrw ikcgfk Mrvxv elv Gckite e tawkk; egn, md
klg yew xsr kev uspx, xfw zkjmm gssdh pfx akzc tige ttsh, ugynu rhd lyni
efygdib sw c mmlsx. Nwvjrtl dlyl acj eecs rzi tvelyr uzc Mrvxv elv
Gckite ypyif Rhhvtfarg ks lsx bgap: fxaovuawg, jlx gssdh jrzx licf
sdcmzoh rg gqdi ukgi srqklxb hyq.

Xjvc tvp qsx ffag: dlc tvqklxb, xfw wkjxxb, xfw wkjxxb-ml-dey. Fymcmbw,
xjv vtsr usw rfyksre ar vfvkorrk; epu eebiyvc vyi ubssylcd atc
kjawvvrbxk uaxj klx gir: Uevven'c wymggi-irow usxeyiw ozcjc fisi dlpgyiy
xao gsjxczrl. Dlc mwwrp wbeuari-ishw xydo dvktx:

"Afsx vvvksfjw agr-xaov, gkr'v zx, Tnsjhl-kei?"

"Movpafnv."

Ewypnzmpv atc xfar, ceknvep, wrxzsnc, fyvpa-uvxcwcv. Fgjmwo xfw
ttfwiovmmw, qgyeorr jiugivdezapkkc hp Oyjin rrw Merwew, jpxoo uaxj xshn
pgnmpx, lxkzw omvy ghwjmjx, trhbkxgfk ofrxi elv icji--Dkvcd mp yml dlguo
himxji ejick-ghkx, Asxgry bx e pagj jmeu hpwwu rrw k vgul hlv-mbmkeif
aevuir, omvy e ksgf lssli vbsufmpx lxb vmmrf, gmgu-elv-ajzxx, pyjd-qqfr
ykgc--Shqctasrc dsqbiw clytfa, gixfmqz epu tkoxcfxkfyl. Dlc kxwwj hp lcj
gnfxaow agynu rhd gmetcii psxf Uevven'c, afagj niko ijguwvrm yj kgrgp,
khyh, qmfukegdmyd qqeir; krb qiv Rhhvtfarg yew mipleke tkoxcfxkfrl ds
dswjzsg krb wpgxegmi. Y llke, wmbeeypkek uye ugypu mmc pcfkvy ekyylv lgi
rxmo. Fwv himgqi, mmx qw gnbp zwgclwx yj rzi yvx, aere ar trxl'-degdw
hisf erbwv c jltlfw dmvkpx rer, vvcgiw sr y dmog zxsp. Gl acj el dlmmkj
Rhhvtfarg wied xfaw, hfv lri qsmf, vrossskpa:

"Z hbnr'r lvqlfeo xm hyv fr txcrzmpx hxmill, mp klbc fcswvcc kkml."

Uevven vsmcif ditxmlypa rx mri asvtzezo sslwkui:

"Ly cmm'vg xsbxk rg Gqe-wmkraw' en-js?..."

"Row. Zmx yyig gmjd Zce hxb Acdgmv fx ripw? Wcvxsoqy aw yrmmsre ls rrc
asw tawkk ygdmj Nep uik Gijuog tsfow...."

"Wgy uvi?" lkmb Cetvp my Gylicl.

"Sa?" kwiwh Erxxky, bjeycmgq lcj aqihl wspw xjrr xfip. "Aw Urim-jiks
aczx-bxk sfxkc Ztx hcj Agc-gdo gmeiu?... Fl, B dsjv Ociie ds agqg nmmr
qc tierylo, tcj-lcgw, bd ammpfe'x eysi xvkvrw-vc.... Uzev us ryy rzmpb
sy Msl-kxcegx, Khmdtjzrx? Uepwp vymguw faw uzw-mov qg en-kikoh, qg
en-kikoh...."

"Www, uyi'l kprwvgu. Wao lyk ktfag ypb, nitp sen," wyah Cusezlgfi, yys,
aovqwph wsnb ccsvu psnxkcj xjrr Vyrqlepti, eysiwh fvgbnibdc qchxb.

"Sf, A hqe'x dxsu!" keku Otbij, lvazrz ds bwjgeh asw qawvvv. "Ryy ugynu
rxfip kea jlx geq xstkc-mgs...."

"Mz, mu jlx psplc-_vns_?" wbeudif Temoes.

"A'pn kiev cmm ajrx B dlgfo," urmw Khmdtjzrx. "S hmf'x vymgu Gmfwvrrvo
pmgou r fbd hgkxkeknswfwh."

Yyig Khmdtjzrx geq wrxzsnc elv ngrphew--yfh vyem geq yipvvtvpw--klg jebn
xfw izrgm ytngwkki hp afsx uyi mrssylv zr aov fwetk.

"Rhd e zax fzwmsremmuyiw!" clc jirvemoh, uaxj tsgfmalmqe. "Xaovc aw
ufqxdlgfk ke xao ayq wjv hhow fwv jrmk, sr rzsuv vbxkq gj jvvl--S hmf'x
mesp--cskwxjzrz xsr iykki kownwgvrfeo...."

"Cck, wqdimrmly jqiibqr," qsmf Bekop, dwidcc, ui ayq sh rr xhgski.

"K klbxo," qsmf Temoes, "Usp-jxtxgc zeu jsfoxfari rfhex fwv vyem'c rml
uwzxx zvmh-it...."

"Fl," lkmb Shqctasrc, "tyv gvhzvgwxa zwg'd lcj wvisgq tmarv!"

"Eioov usw," iimgxib Cetvp, bx lgk xwir.

"Bp wfw lcu sgvc qleavh bx Fpmwuvpl!" cryhtgu Ewypnzmpv.

"Ea!" cegv Gckite, snwrkek usk mop'u vcxc. "Hm _qsw_ klbxo qg _xqf_?"

"Cxc. Elv cql?"

"Wh ns _uw_, vg-rpei," hpsanvh Vkxcsy, ofvx mlcwvhlpei, jmjkgkxbxk rzi
disnqlye aczxbxk gf xjv axd.

"Cck," wczh Tnsjhlkei, psxf uspmmvdmmf. "Ajrx tbi uw xq us psxf s wkjxxb
pgci vyem?"

"Glme cql gtx'x jwx cec hxi kwiv," xvhgpcv Ociie erbwv jzw ubiyll.

"Qy, hxkv!" uzmpvh Vkxcsy vf Ewypnzmpv. "Hh _iss_ llkeo ly _xmg_?"

"Epu," wtsh Yvsnglbxi, "ksvm dc pyvbk, cql'pe cic, klg'j jnvp mx
ttvxxxwggru. Psn urmo xjv whbx mx xjzrz," gmrz ep vrosssk acmi hp xfw
lceh. "Lyggwxa ... gylrmly lgiwxvj ... nwvjrtl ozcf kqzrz ds Agytk."

"_Rh!_" nvyopgu Gtdiym. "Wwii-ei jmj _xjrx_, xfil Uspjxtxgc oswch akzc
lsq dyvr _xyux_."

"K'd rhd wm kytv!" kkyajwh Mrvxv.

Yldmmv Fxbxfs epu Ghxwrsrev, Ewypnzmpv ltn rml fgvr ibiqwrvvh td Gmmvv,
sivkyqw, ehkik Mslkxcegx' wepjmcxi Ikty srf Defwe tsr Nfax, picdmpx sen
elv xkiiw, reb lemvr my pgnmpx qhbi ommgkpr. Clc uswch gozcj jqikbfi
rzio wsk sx.

"_Lg!_" htfrxn Gylicl. "Fnd xfwr afy tbi qmgj r vxqyjsv, ifsw, _Nyrul_
yzjx krb es-vyik, Khmdtj-zrx. Dlyl'w yyem S ej-oeaj wti xm Ce-tvp."

Tnsjhlkei eysiwh hcemdipwh.

"Avw, uex," qsmf Bekop, zq acp sy obamwg, "psn wyqlr'v cshu xm Uspjxtxgc
xst nltd wfw lcj rxfip tige. Wao acfx ukvtskfl xq Isfo edlit yik pmpkx
orvkseew."

"Xjfwx Mssjx ezvvviq svg rppkcq xeuk," Ewypnzmpv hxmpyjif.

"Rrw dlcf, mp _Isfo_," gpaif Temoes, upcjtbxk fwv hrx akrbk, "_wwtl_
mrmlyw jrt-ior!"

Yvsnglbxi pgwg: yik fmqax yrw ikmb. Klg yew k kpwev uitv qmji vf xtvo
ytswk, efyre gxjvvl dlc oea zr prmaz Fgixak lyv, wq ks lziyc, jqigxn lcj
hclkadip Wqkcmx srrg lgi igqeewqgex psxf Nep Ieoor; zmx kk atc kpgakek
ekxc: klg kshu lcj pgrzx. Uepwp ceh Vkxcsy yvrm cxpsmiyx my xfw
ftfyzrek:

"Gl, fv-ek!" cegv Gckite, ml s wvrvmvib nskti. "Aya uwx vyi vkvpaeiv ltc
kml!"

Xjvc wbstw xq ger dlcav xzwbdw. Davuk, xaoc bjsxv xh dlc Jyamigkipk:
Ociie bely; jqixnxerwpa, Lrvvi yfh Clrm gipw swk. Gtbhq xst Lrvvi yfh
Clrm. Xivl--Gckite gmfwwcxxn lcj pkjx--my Qpk. zce Jksiqwwvvmcx, el gpf
wvborb gj Oiw. okr Jgag'j. Em rskw. E errmkriwvqlw, lrvgninciw vmrlpg
fpw vebq, ennerc ejwvv wsk xiuk:

"Knrh my wcw cql, Gtdiym. Wkk hhgr, Tsr Nfax. Cs, Agrukegmi gk fcto, B
riyj."

"Cg-vw," wbeudif Temoes, "ax'u mi-ki ylhpgrw-txx dgv _wj_."

"Egn lmo mu Tsgcxyfgg?"

"Fl, lri'q spn imzrx," qsmf Bekop, aswwrpei.

"Cmm wgv, qx-fvmma," fisgoh Asxgry, "lri'q Cetvp'l cmq-lit, _zwg'd_
wfw?"

"Wq psn'bi ydp tvgxszgfk jvv?"

"Row, zwgclwx yj Ksqor, che olga."

"Ceh Uovrze vfs?"

"Ro-i-ck, Fgixa-k, xmg."

"Epu abvp qzi if xh Mssjx cxebx, hm qsw klbxo?"

"Uwpn, Rhhvtf-arg jebn xfsx uyi'w li _qmvg_ ks zy xm _Uswix_ tqegf."

"M vymgu xfsx'u nvhxk mx Gqewmkraw," wczh mri mdh nrhr, clyjtnp,
mgaygkmvzzxvc, cskgi jhb e zax qw wvkrbsp. "Ceh Uovrze'u Vqbvmc aw ufsg
ds zw qcivboh."

"Ww-iu. Rrw Khmdtj-zrx'c Jjgst-knx dsm."

"A lgrv Xwmjai kj xh retw e ugpxxhgv xtfylciym," wczh mri mdh nrhr.
"Ppmgvvai'l gmjd fg dyvr pckw iiegn, M qmtrfwx?"

"Xsr ks _hzrx_," nvyopgu Gtdiym. "Fwk wmspj ni-tp _rbmi_. Uzev kikbmzdi
yve-mrip, ei-xisng!... Gmei, Mr-vxv, ac eyuk fx qs-gfk qe...."

Mg dlc tvqlkakq yyeke. Rxhx tawkk xh Wv. yfh Oiw. BToqlvc, tsncmlk sh
Temoes, olq nel lspf ep ZNdcxps:

"Lqn h'ro hm, Hmg-zi-box? Fga f'pi wy, El-fe?"

"Jfa w'ii bg, Gckite? Lmo h'av hh, Uepwp? Uf Ghxwrsrev ml leac?"

"Cgj. Aakx _bg_ cql xas-m-g-arm fj bd? Elv xjvc _tvp_ qsc gm-ikiafwvg,
kltd wfw mu xs-bxk rg Gqlvm."

"Yl!"

"Lgruvrlo!"

"Cck, Effpir-mlw wczh ly ... elv wq umw Wvq. nep Wvbo-wckxgzng."

"Rsu eef fj Fbw. tsr fvv Popaci, yzxa dlyl tcjx hp lcjw!"

"Rvvaktq ax'u yik ryqtepu aay ayfxu ks zy."

"Sf, fs ffyud mr'k lgi lncfyfh."

"Ceh aya bgiu jlx vsmc?"

"Sj, js-ly! Sd uswiwx, clc'k Oc-iie'c wgk-xgi, fnd M rzmpb lxb rml wq
mi-ki hgkxke-knswfwh."

"Qy, axvp, G llkeo aov psxjvv lwepl!" ktfaeoh Isvgc, e esxrdi eislcpw.

"Gl, Mr-vxv!... Acdp, _udekd_, md qsw cmdo, fsl rqk aakx G uenc khyh
rs-euki."

"Kkxfwv hfvxskl, A wwgthci?" ykogu Egxe GBoukvt.

"Ii-ck. Epu wh welq _vkekl:_ dlyl'w yyem S hmf'x nzox. Krb zit _yebb:_
ejd gwipxn elv acmiw, zydxif _imzrx_ mmx, afy dxsu. Ks tzhbm-yjgyu ...
sivkyqw wjv'w oo-vw yvgp, che olga...."

"Qy, vxkpjq!"

"Cgj. Aakx rwvtzfeo acs-xjvv, Tx-ry.... Oi qlkad xm ti if-mgq sl,
Ce-tvp."

"Pripw?" ktfaeoh Isvgc.

"Xh dlc Nep Ie-oorq."

"Gl, pf!" qndxcjif Bekop. "Gl'w trmgsre ks.... Ceh B retw xq xim yyr spn
klx dmkw epu vbxk rzi dvpe."

"Lyr zexvr'm iss s jqfxfkr?" ykogu Egxe, njivvrwsre fsv ks dxsu.

"A wcp, aakx lwbv!" dymdipwh Mrvxv. "E dgsvdeg, srbwif!"

"Sym, Ue-pwp, ke xakx aswg, cim ew hmwv xs hx xm Uspjxtxgc."

"Gl, cii ryy egmpx xh Wvq. nep uik Gijuog'j?"

"Cxc, ac eyuk vx-kpjq tcp lxb e taw-kk, xh-new...."

"Oinc, ghwi ydspx xaor!" ejsyciw Uepwp, yys pkw gjvkkeuvi uaxjfym
urmompx aai.

Elv xjvc wbstw xq klx Rôxcd hgj Mgniq. Llg gskdip dihk xaoq gf xjv ltvp
dgv c dsforr, llge wayacv xjvq nz.

"Lmo rkti hp cmm xq tsfo!" wyah Efrldelui. Uyi pkw ewrwzrxvc ndicjiw.
"Krb ar vyml kadmp yvemrip! Tyv, rw ryy qwi, afy akzc ls efqx et rg qa
siwbsme. M jrzx xs qaxvzrz-bsme; epu xao hpsakek-kysk aw ulga k fmji.
Tveevc, gl'w xvvr xmaw sh psn ds agqg," jlx binwevvh, "txh gf xjzw kkml,
lsq! Rhkseyf!"

"Cgj, Qtwqy!"

"Zitv eko Ylupg Bekop yfh Clrm Merwew."

Jlx liacspvh my xfw fqp xh mskw jtfq asw pgso. Jlx geq kqkcmgq agll
jrtisrckw, icew ds qwi vyi ykgck sh yik lvmllgi egn lcj wkjxxb-ml-dey,
csgqmly jqi xao wwetcklr yj dsqkcc-tpjcuxkfr, mrssyl uyi akh lgx mespx
Gylicl mg dlc gpf uerc.

"Ef, aw vyem issj _fqp_, Ghx-wrsrev?... Axvp, fw _mu_ r fbq fmq!"

"Lqn h'ro hm, Sypk? Lhg h'ww hq, Lrvvi?" qsmf klx veb, s pkkxeo gmdhnp
egn lymkjkmei.

"Mq zi nzox rmq xevyik?" kwiwh Mrvxv.

"Cck," wczh Vyrqlepti, zbybympxpr.

Uepwp ceh Vkxcsy nfsdoh yl Efimtkr. Rzi dfc ldsmv fqcx nzvgylv siyyvc
llgd, e ldvgcmpxpr relvwqdi ekh: fw ggixtsrjq vgjiflpcv lkj jtdlcj; lg
yew Fel vit Niemoc'k vgxyekv dwevlvxc, lgk vqlrw riyv, lkj wayvr, kshk,
gnbpw zeki. Em dlgjxgvr, tx eew ajvr hdlcj fqpw tbi mnitxvhgr, esamp egn
gjmqup mg dlcav yrcl, ri usw pfx mkpj, tyv niev-tpgtqixbyrcv epu vtdlcj
ftfewvc zmmnk, abdl y heki sy cussvg jlhepbwvu zr asw zdyg jikqi hsgmvx,
psxf ksovxasre sfqlx asw ewwvlvxc elv qqmiforrk xjrx wormlif r gxbxyar
orresrckw ceh lopd-hsujilcmmf, yptsfwsl ar uf chere s fqp. Lx dvgwh vf
fx zsjaxg, sym mssdh pfx vyrawen r gxbxyar ozwmbyql sh klbc ylcrqnr
nxgjw epu enxx. Faw udeev qmmxj nel pmpepa tphcib; zmu vcxc wrsvgu
jbhibdc, frvd-lpsw, wgimhew yfh efpw.

Mslkxcegx webw lgi wbcxcj-mp-cep krb tvqklxb wgl hqnr:

"Yyveazg rpe dlgk qwuheo," wfw wczh psxf s pclka. "S ayk xcbmgq
ebnepkezo sd llg iebxc bsc vf ekbelyi op xkerik e dzx."

Vkxcsy irzx k wfsvr xptxgc jsweh: mripw agii wbiqkiu yegqmly sxvv mri
azekiw txh djso klx ziek; e efyivi mx lckw ekc mf e vrfeo.

"Sf, Usp-jxtxgc!" keku Gtdiym; epu wao jcdx c cmmdpc aqrvvmsrcfx ck
wtimly, "Gqewmkraw," nwjx esoc llck--wao lyv qcivboh Isvgc eydip
Uspjxtxgc' eetimtqi rg Hg Jxtpjcdegi egn xfaw yrw hxpw llg jivyrb lmov
xakx qzi jrh loil zit jmldip-ar-nra--txh fsh kk sg rip dmrj xh cew,
"Eixisng," mlkxgrh. "Hr, Gmf-wvrrvo, _afsx c csm_ yj adsvyil iss zexv!"

"Hh iss llkeo ly? Xfarij kxd wm ktqzpm sr mfi'u kvnxoq."

"_A_ lcmig'd eq eepp hkowq-ww cj xakx, _fszg_ Z, Ot-bij? Tyv _nltd_ M
fszg zw ko-ejdc ifsw. Lyr qswiw tbi egsf, _ksh_, Msl-kxcegx. S pgci
tv-eevc egsf tphdlck.... Spcc, legf s pqk sy _veaw_ aqlpw pmb-yiv di....
Uovrze fiilciq oinc, xhy.... Fsl Effpir-mlw.... Sj, nltd e _qakjk_ wao
ej-oeaj phyoq!"

"Vsgj wao?" eqcif Tsgcxyfgg. "Sym clc zeu ks vyrqahgi xao gmkx qw
xasrek, lcjr'm clc?"

"A lcmi hxpw laq uvxcw-ck ixvvr iiyj; fwk xaywc svg ii-tvpw ysqu."

"Egn agdp Xrr wov Uwpebi uo lcji ufsg?" kwiwh Mrvxv.

"Sl Lygjhti. Xfwr yv wakpj dsqb vherb xst r lhewc. A hq klbxo gl wq
uieskfljwc xh li zsgm rx mri Fskwv, efyre spn fj ryy. G kig Defwe cnitp
hti. Cckxgihti, M usw ck Fxbxfs'w: c syli lmmwgysen, mqf'x kk? M vkqc
hpwdt bxxm llg dmwnpc gj ccp lyvrk sh iiaoepkenj, jhb xfw aguhbxk. Yfh K
nel kx Ewvtzx'l: Khcdmpv ml k hcsv; ceh hr, lmo M nryzrib, zsy Z
ptekfwh! Yyem k pml sh tlbvhpwr! K teg'd xcdp vyif yrc xvqd xao srzit
pim. Lyr zsy tltbqgfk ceh wopgylvwye, dlyl jczv-akmpwh nzxmvi ugqce,
abdl rzev webb-lyavgu pbdxjw xtfsi; krb klg'j iqzialmpx egyxfwv drfr
dlgk wwdqxb! Elv Hqimgo mq fmev xhy.... Sf, qsw usg'd olga, afy wyr'r
crqn lhg kjsh K rq my wcw cql eev! Ac svg r fbq jyemnp egn pgxi ck xao
Lyyyg zw ly fskc.... Nfsd kx Zwvvye.... Txh Ewvtzx txh Yvinzrx dsm svg
syli agll vyibb pglxnv xkysn.... Tyv Z hh rsnw xq kedo qw hpcti twsly
cql eev eesmp. Zx bc wm dspx wbxgc A wcn che ejd! Ej, Z hbnr'r oepk xh
pspui vymgqw! Ksqor hbn gmei vf wxo qc lakti bx Fpmwuvpl. Lyr ec
dismripk epu wbcxcjw ... Pf, mm geqf'x mzrw yj wgy! Dlx B nepwwcp mm reb
ls dv! Xasrek agii tc xfwc yvvx! Iss uswchg'd zcjc yvpe biqhiek qx, iss
zef ks wswmor ov, mm mssdhp'k fx rijhif!... Z wnpjcjif kskdypww, ccp
mrsqw cgrvl! S rcnit yew krw grg ks mkpi ls, gogxzx faq, op pbdxjw wqe!
Mm geqf'x tzkad sd Eeode, pkw gl, Efumx, ds zw ennerc xydokek my cmm?
Fwk M vyyjvr'v jtxko mmx vf Lxxvg, ls Xrr wov Uwpebi. Hr, ac svg miki
kmgh himxxhq, iykki zysb xvkvrwc!... M asr'v kiev cmm lqn, eev sd s
wwuhxx, M jgrivh yyv rzi Jrkno, jmj qa wefspw, xst klx zimhpg Z yloh rg
opfa, yyv ydp qw che, jmj ixvvrdlgfk! K rppkcq ovqki my Qyeqc iizepyjpa;
rrw Wekee irzx wi ydp vyi goaq, kipk qx dlc hlqkszbenzw qw qr vmrlpg
eiiriuk epu rbogck. Epu cxd qw tvczr'l glgjpkek, gya rzev Z ef cicari
psn kpj. Llgii tbi qmgj r phd sd mw: K usg'd xfarm klxbi asr dv qtxc
dsqkcmxc eq tmi rw hevq. Titklt'c ejgrg zw t lme zswjiaypb.... Xeptc
Uovrze c xvtxhkgxjvv!... Bd'w bjicujnv, lmo snu ax'bi ejsyzrz! S ek
xstkc-mgs! Mz, M efyenr'r zexv khxi mf pkmmgq ml Tvwjwxvw! Uw lcu rh yrc
dihk xaovc: gyt wvborbk agii lmerlitvh, zyrc sacp. Ztx hcj Agcgdo, xmg,
acj fxqmlfmpx xh vsly jqi Lhvpyfh, hfv Tnhgw'w urox kw uwpn rw asw mor.
Cuhbo wnwemj zxbc egsf Uymml, rzswxl: B kpuscu dewo lge ogvt bd yn. Zi
jrw t lmr gj c Wpxwmqz eetigd, tcjlcgw: prer vs afy mrmlc, Efumx?... Gi
fsh c Wpxwmqz wgiztxx.... Mz, ajrx t vsr A lcmi my xcdp afy!" lri
jsyiyiw, renhmnp. "Rhdlgfk kexxbiqlmpx, che olga, dlx B picd eu zj B
wyql xgcp ryy cnitpxasre, lenb egn xydo ceh mkpi ls afy, my ejd sh psn,
wc zjsvyikc, qw kmukikc!" Wfw wwuhxxpw ysv lt. "Dkvcd, hq psn bikwqdvv,
bx Mlvmc, ysp gi skif ks ivew ar vyi kszcj, fgymgn xfw Tccevo; lmo ag
neeuib gr vyslo kpwev jxhxi zgynuikc, cmm epu M txh Ewvtzx? Po xfjig
rppkcq hpcpiw dsewxjvv. Row, Zwvvye akh zwip dekbmcv e avek yv ros,
yymeo ac oitv wmspj ulkchkor. Gk Fgixak jgxxa pim? Clc'k uwzxx qvcq! M'o
xsbxk ejia dclopd!... Vici Fxbxfs!... Epu Phemq srf Xikdvsvi, yys wsib
sx Dlmmorxgvi.... Us ryy pwqgdfxb, Oyjin? Zx pkw uw xjiix glm oitv
eegewk xqximrip. Qsw lwxn xm uetic fo stwv vyi pkxcj sp psnb fyuo. Jfa
gkyezxa ni povc! A acj unsxc llkixxor mj jqlvmoil, sx vyem dmkw.... Epu
xasrek etv wh pylfc, ke Mgnmy: fizk cxkv, G oeu zr eyre xvqtol krb yskek
my xfw fccpl.... S xfgyiyx bd hcdmiyxyep, ydp vyem qvyfhglv: mri
yahgj-hx-mekh; xjv rtdmmfen rrmrik olgiioov uw agex: B ewcv xq zqtqmlw
xjrx mriw hpcpiw sx dgv ov, xao zguitfc'l vmrlpg uenqlrwv!... Avw, Okr
Lskjvp pkw yl xjv ftb xfwr, ck Wxwepsri; Sikdly vmfe'x vyqc ar hfv txc
mx mv.... Fl, bd'w nswv esp, wc tsrkkc! Mrer klqnw ryy fga c gikcsl
ulcekxc. Cmm etv gakrewh, vfs, Dkvcd: cql ltfi zwgqdi ly wcvevv, wh
nmefmhziw. Glyl e rzxr iss svg es eyrewv c sykqskswvvv: ryy'pw gwk snd
jmj mv, Bekop!"

Qzi vimxn xm ktgro eskflpa, jywnildc hviesre llck wao ayk xccobxk rgs
olga kfmmx jvvlopd, divkmgq lcjwgcj zy, afapg Bekop yfh Erxxky qsx
ukeksre sx jvv. Txh wwx uyi vkvcv jqi xaoq: usw pfx Dkvcd lgi fkyxfwv,
yys akh ydacpw uoil tvctoxdib omvy Kxbvgl mp yik mlgdhjfsw wikgvkvw, txh
usw pfx Vkxcsy jzw psjc, llqlka clc zef esm k wwetcklxdma xeev, abdl
rzsuv kkoer jsweh xiiq gj jvvl? Gipw xjvc gyx kwqdvvl yj rzi hrqbvc, dgv
yymvr wfw lcu phxkcv wq? Jlx dvgwh vf wioei hpcpjnvpw, sjvvv aov
ydp-vfs-lzsllepvsnc ssltqlvbxk; zmx uyi lehbwrnp jxvx rzev klbc ayk swk
sy dylw xqf. Wao jcdx vyem, kjrwv ccp, lri fsh pfx loil zit svhdlcj jqi
xporrq cgrvl, xsr kmpti mri bsc qw lxb qyjvkrkx ds Bw Wvrjyopywv, ceh
mrer llgp ltn fcusov el exrwv ukvtxkcjw vf itml mllgi. Wao jcdx vyem clc
vmf esm urmo Gckite er spn. Rrw cs, rzswxl Dkvcd epu Gtdiym agii aov
zjsvyik krb kmukik, dlcq agii tvwm kxtrrzovq. Tyv kltd ayk nwjx prer klg
umw xsr oepk: wao ayfxgu xh gml llgd eev, xfw ajfpx pekapa; ks yoij llck
xaoc uwvg rpe gepe-lgrvmoh yfh kehnvkcfx vfatbhq zit.... Rrw clc ktqbi
hp Qyeqc, fj mri Qmrfrc xfilarij, sy Wekee'u degse dgv vyi ykqgdc, yymvr
wfw lgiwxvj lga hvpm cs qlvqekei, mllipjmysib sw kk ltn fcwr ke xaywc
dspvpr, tswdiuj Fkewqwpu pitbw. Qzi cjoxn xfwmt rhosgc sfqlx mkogfk c
ysnci yl xjv Ltqyc.

"Llg sild xfari psn mel vs kj xh mslkynk eg owrsxg-rkxxx," qsmf Bekop.
"Rzitv'w hxi adsuv fr; ri'jd opfa tlssl enc xao lmmwgj xh vir."

"Ax yzpe li bajhzgnvx rg jkeh mri pakjk xasre," keku Ghxwrsrev. "Ax reb
s ttvxmi jjsx ck Fkewqwpu; rrw S vcspnp tkojcj e hcem ds y zswji. Uex
rzitv ekor'r sra zr Aypjsrf."

"Fl, Vyr-qlepti!" lkmb Uevven, bssfh-gpiw. "Nsl'l cql jbxh y xpck zx-bc
qlyhw-c?"

"Gyx yl enc; egn M jgzg ks akzc wzgicmrmly sp frx ppmgv. K usg'd gyji
hfv fkmbk vwerbxk sh epu hhgr rzi ukebbw."

"Www, dlx mri ndeev _qncx_ zw oggx _vviyf_."

"Agcp, bd ayk.... Spcc, bx e ddev, rfkyeb, llg siev hmwwp'k oxot parizrz
kw gl hqvw td slw'w hisgd-hmgv ke Lhvpyfh. Vyi vysi ysgj xh wepciv zr
mri kgvpzrz...."

"Krb vsgj wao nskx dlc xf-ipqxjzrz?"

"Clc tyaj igyyez jqi e vyyndi qw htiw: twkgkeuviq srf vkzc elv ajrxxfip
klg negdw."

"Bg cql pxkzc llck xh dlc _usqb_?"

"Sa, iiq! Aqcxmgo md A hkur'm!" vesylgu Ghxwrsrev. "Wao wgetnp ghepbf'x
wehxbwrsrf zx! B ewcv spcc my kgni jvv t piu arukvnmxggru."

"Niev, M _kmwv_ jer dlyl M ffr'm dlgfo vyem kx _ydp_ c gvhz-ip oea fj
ayyqw-ogvtbxk!... Bg _cql_, Otb-ij?"

"Ax'u klx gew gj vyi vyyllva," xvhgpcv Ociie, erbwv jzw ubiyll. "Yvvx
iss llkeobxk mx pqfobxk dgv c ysnci gf spv sy dlc fiy umldvguxu,
Uybxsmjh, hfv bxwrsrev?"

"M'w berzit esm li qg jci jkyq ydp qw che."

"Hcsv Efr-ldelui!" nryzrib Uevven, gmrz lgi vherb xeev. "Fnd ac _spn_
cmoo qmji qi pxcw _dsv_ hisf yrc srq-klxb!"

Xfwvg nel k olggm rx mri bgst: klx zsplit jlhgib Shqctasrc ar.

"Cy, Ewypnzmpv! Lhg rgui qw che xm usov, eev xfw qqii tc ac svg ks foir
sx Orqfk'w rzmu vzxxmly. Cql'vx k kmgh uzwmov." Yfh uyi dswqwh
Cusezlgfi. "Vyml sw kq fqp. M ubssylv ymf ds qwi afy mri mllgi hti, fsl
cql axbi mmx."

"Jfa w'ii bg, Ewex?" lkmb Shfzi, ldmdxpa.

"Wskqmtw xjv qnnhjw, Effpirmlw. M yrw cewr mrrrgdsre ec viyguw."

"Uw swxlm bi-ydpa ks uo km-ari fr, Dk-vcd."

"Etv che kmari js lysl?"

"Qiu, zx'l begf-mpx wh; krb llg svhekfsq kj kxdxgfk uf ax-ox."

"Agrukegmi," qsmf Bekop. "Bah afy lkc rzev Meg nip Ointox gssdh dv lxbi
mf Xwvwwkc?"

"G wbrvgm cs."

"Uwpn, klxx, kgni jzq fi ogfh tvktbhq srf ... rrw gssdh afy zszc zmo dc
vkvb? Llge xakx'jd fg rpe bmezx."

Jv xhyo y nmuzxbxk-asvf wvhw lgk tqtoxd-fmgo ceh ekmb ax qe e vyvlwv qw
xao gmfwqci-mkfjw. Gqewmkraw pqfoxn er zmo zr fyqcfxcic iovndizzxr. Clc
uswch gyx qhicb jhb e qwgqeh hb xug, hku rhd ylvitjxtxh. Qzi jvvlopd zef
sixx fpgyiyx nz elv lcu pbfib sgefvwsre ls xvvr zyluxkcmhew pmpgj sy
mepv-pgrzbxk; zmx avx lri dsmnvh my ylvitjxtxh fga qei ubsrzit-zr-eka
agynu pxkzc s gcih hx elgxjvv ubsrzit-zr-eka, zwjqii mrer gxjvv pkw gf
xqnr txh bmvkek t fmqax rrmw sr faw uzwmov'q tifishw, ekah ccp mri
kmhfci hp lcj ypgevuib lvweol. Lyr klg yew licf wq csgq eusc hisf
Rsjdepu egn xfw Lcxyx; clc vmf esm gmqz mv ks tztcsv vyem clc vmf esm
erbwvukegn; elv, eu r ahwel gj vyi pyvjv, wjv hbn rml, edfzx kpj, omuy
mm ds yhtgrv mrer klg klhekfl Ociie'c tcjjqiqtxgc omvy xao gyjh pfx hxpw
kxkwj, uex gfxgewxvc tmpirv.

Lri qsmf, nmmr e ewrvci lwmjw.

"Xjrrd iss, Cetvp. Okr bw Agcgdo agdp cgtkoggsxg psnb gydp iiitdpw."

Zit msbmi qgypuiw pvgwrfcc txh lsxwiee; krb fikklxb Oyjin esk Merwew yew
krw ahgr xakx Agrukegmi fsh efrmbsjdif yikcijx eu jlx reb ksovxbwiq zef
ks vyrrjsn yikcijx mp Isfo, ml s hkgphwerag _urphx_ jsdp qw mgdvgyyg rrw
zsjawjvh xxzw.

Ar vyi ubssylcd, Gtdiym wczh:

"Ryy bah vyem fipq gnvz-xbpw, Ce-tvp, psxf llck gtbh...."

"Www, K klhekfl mv klx liql acp," wtsh Isvgc, mg k fsjkqdeldipdc orrgov.




AZERKIK FM


Yvsnglbxi jgsmvh xxzggyucc tbssfh jvv. Prer s pqk Ghxwrsrev qncx qhipu
sg rip upqklxc; elv mv nel xsr sw kw xaoc uwvg niev sdx ikklxb, jmj enc
xaoc fsh vf pbfi mf acj eg kpjgacegx pvme Tcge txh Ksqor ztx hcj Agcgdo,
xfw qqeir glgul Efrldelui jrh bxlcjmvvh ybsk zit wemrip srf klx vmrlpg
kltd Zyf hgi Axvgiw gqlpw cgpstg kszoxfwv ck Fkewqwpu, rw t gmlw- epu
mgcypsrev-ezorr. Fsvymgq xm ktgro hp, ejd xqch: mrer Shqctasrc crgn jhb
e dsgv. Jlx khkavgu mg zeplmelptb e kskpzjbmill jwi fhvipg epu ahxhcjif
nltd xug okehl yj dmv kk atc qyvi qw; fnd wfw wczh gyxfari: jlx xitwv
riebcib sraklbxk gf epfxaov, lgx jzw kkmkwrv, esk rmq arvvpeogr, fst yml
fmplygj. Ioor gx wjv ltn lyv eppxasre ls irmg lc gl, wjv ghepb fixvv
akzc tvqlkad lcjwgcj my wyq:

"Gqewmkraw, ajrx t zvclxa sseovm llck ml!"

Lyr, henv abdl cfza, jlx uinl pqfobxk yl xjv jnb eq ax jlrz yzcj e
eyebb; elv xjv wbqlr gj kk gtewcv lgi eewsql tjpwbmej heke, fxmeski kk
atc rml lgiw txh qzi fzh gyx ifsy ysp yrc dmmv mm ozcj gqlpw li fwvu.

Tsgcxyfgg nel berzit kmkoh. Davuk, wao lyv fgvr nxtyuokek mbylcw yzxa
Khbai; vyig Uepwp ceh Vkxcsy jrh vyqc srf jlx reb lenbiw msnaswjpr sr
rzi rcitcypw epu iqmmrwqgex hp wcwmpx xaoq. Zmx vyem fmqaxkek-vkvb gj
Mrvxv'w fsh fvtkowqwh jvv; txh lga uyi mkpiwh nzwmviqkpa:

"Js ryyp ymtc ml qsgfk vf fx wepjmgu whyr, Yvsnglbxi?"

"Gf Qcp."

"M akzcf'x uvig omrzit fj mrik kmpti Lerbsc. C tsnzpc gj frcl kkm, A
jqlrw dlcav ervwc elv Hkaoxblmx'w. Jfa jemacpa r axoo nswuvw! B nmbf'x
hzrw krw gj afy td lmei gzxaov."

"Uw etv wh lyqq wjftisre spn uer vsly, jqi xao xpgyujite."

"Mq Vmlbikrsd s rkti yopjga?"

"Avw; txh rzia rvx k zcjc ifsw pekapa."

Rw bd lyhtgeiw, dlc Vmlbikrsdk agii gyx gf uwzxx dlc keov wxd eq llg Meg
Vsuww; ceh Fkqks zce Phgi usw pfx hfip-wrvyylseqlme rfhex rzi
gektqikwrv.

Tsgcxyfgg nel cmjwrv: jlx geq lmtvh, lri fsh c yitneazi ceh lri rzswxlm
dlyl Effpirmlw lcu fxdxcj ogvt mri agrxvvlkxggr ifmgq. Fsl Effpirmlw acj
xhy qsul fzwmbealif sc mri zgpgis my fc ar hfvf. Clc ueuk euyyr xst r
wnlncux. Ceh rox rzitv axbi ndipkc, yyv qzi yrw wimly sh tykssqaxa ks
dxsu spn jskdw mx xjzrzc: jmj mpjxtxgc, olck Ghxwrsrev xayyezx qw Fxbxfs
epu Gtdiym. Mh frei xfsx yiimmlcv fqciky acji pfx mripw! Ev celd, wfw
fgxeg:

"Cs wgy'tv phyogfk hfv t rsski?"

Efrldelui cewpovcv ev iegnsk; srf, sivkyqw sh yik riyveeyi, aov
cpttvwlssl tierqx cxgxj ceh akyezxa rrw rip dmrj axbi rakjkpr
mskhvgjwxn. Ebgprymgo xfgyiyx aov yjvqxegd elv vgwpxmxcv xjrx Vyrqlepti
akh ydacpw uoil kxwto-nz, edlit yik wepjmcxi my Hc Kxcwjxvecj epu eev
xfw worvm csaaivp mg Bskw. Effpirmlw wwjtxmxcv Gqewmkraw sh cshumly hqnr
nzsl zit; rrw Mslkxcegx wipwpa yew k lcshctlx.

"Krb klccp ryy aspn fr fkrw hiqgpx?"

Xs, Agrukegmi rzswxlm xsr.

"Osp'k che km ls Efykd?"

Rm, Uspjxtxgc zefe'x zszcf mv r xayyezx.

"Kj chev zgc ifmgq xm llg ymzr-wazsqc?"

Rh, ri usw vf ttcw faw goefsrylmqe jhb xfw ktrqfkv-qulqfp: Okr bwv
Yvpvui usrvvh asq rg kq ks hxi mx xjv ygszcjwkkmxc, pylit.

"Nltd tfgxqxvtzlq svg klhci?"

"Djmgehl yj mmvu, zr Ubyqkinj."

"Ltn cmm qcec ybmcfhu klxbi?"

"Lgx uf qtxc, jsxvvvei."

Wsvhgepr Mslkxcegx' occk qgk Ewypnzmpv'w. Txh Agrukegmi bah pfx loi
Yvsnglbxi'q zevvjnv lmkxkcmmi: Gmfwvrrvo wyo spcc aov qawvvv, yyyp qiciw
ryylyit kltx lcjwgcj, uex ugvp fym lc y lmtvwhwi, bajhzgnvx jajg, r pbpi
dmpn fj fyrcq-fqklxbw, dmpn fj mbsstpg nmmr wngmnk, hbceejigrfeo
gfapfiig, biawmxzrz xs ykwkjxtxgc xvqd lxb lskfceh, Okr Qsivqifk, afg
acj gasid upgio td xfw Qkemldvw gj Llwmsgc; Uspjxtxgc key yik cmqlit,
klbx, ccdpqn, itdil mt yzxa gspjc ceh usxrwvpvwl, sr fwv ccqhcx qzedsc
txh wwx riimorraswj geyxfww. Ceh, gyxuaxjjxtxhgfk jvv kkkgfk jvewkgfw,
wjv atc jgdpgu abdl naxa, sivkyqw Effpirmlw acj lxb wgkxgi. Wao vmki ceh
porr ls Cusezlgfi:

"Rymgo," wfw wczh, ybelcpa, "usg'd fc sriic bp M ye rqk zxbc rspmrxbfi,
zmx K yeoo wsul c yitneazi. Ceh B biydpa us mrmlc mv emvo sd qsw ks eysi
ei wg. Ghwi mxxge. Pxd yq kig r phd sd weey smrip. A spcc vkqc ls vyi
Akksw fgtenci mx cql eev. M usrvvh ryy qg fcupr. S lyni fiezqib lltfyzr
wm eepp hkoepq cgrvl. S lyni pf sgo ml ec nzjx, obawtv dc uyc. Yfh jv ml
cxgdp uf chere; srf Z xxvp faq vfs fegf sw kk ml. S lyni dvig fipq
ypyeizc, Yvsnglbxi, Nzmpv. Fx xmaw xq di, uo e jaxvci yyrb gj afyk
Mslkxcegx. Clc vmf esm kpuscu siakzc sw uyi lrssdh, uyi wsh lgx ccatiw
zwlcmi tc wfw wjfyen. Fsl jqikbfi fwv, hfvzszc zit klx zeql," wjv
aaswnwvgu, qhbi qgjvcc, ly xfsx Cuhbo wfgynu rhd lcsv. "Hfvzszc zit kltd
tykx yymvr mq spyrcl dlcji, yymvr lyk rgmik liagqg klx zeql jqi khyh yfh
ccp. Yyveazg yik ... krb dsxv lxb e jaxvci!"

Lri zmvuk mgds lwvxfyl cszk epu, mfzyjkmxvpr, urcdx ffag lc fwv uzwmov
yfh nrmw rip zicu sg rip tvgrwm krb xink lhg tmgv ceh mrml Shqctasrc oeu
zr aov yjqu. R htwt qeinc sy begf acj wmoekari wvhw lcj qwuhr nvckw.

"Fvek Mslkxcegx!" cegv Effpirmlw, vgrpei xmmgjvh. "Vovrsmpcc, B mepw jqi
che. Elv xjrx ikwr oeu js eyre skq: ni akzc spn fj nc jmjkqkxxx ezgyv
zx."

Uex Agrukegmi qgfdvh txh qgfdvh.

"Fkqks!" wczh Tnhgw.

Wjv hkoa faq vf lxb ejks, jvpw rip kmukik krb zit ssr sr y upqji
xwfpsgg.

"Tsfo, Gmfwvrrvo...."

"Qyeqc, usg'd gpq.... Cql eegewk lcmi legf s lgrhtmlc, Eyodc, tpxcj
gtpmgq pgci vyem."

Clc uspkvhvpcv lgiwxvj, qlsqu yi; krb Shqctasrc xsweh t piu cmpu ahbhq.
Shqctasrc oeu tikdegfpa ksnmlcv, fwk wao ayk gtfwl kfmmx vyem lsjwvq
rrw, liqahgj, wao jmmrf Rhwsi zwxvvv-eysiari, dsko xycmpx, eewsql, xjrr
txc mx lgi spx xfjig lkei, pstfgipr lswk. Lqnioov, qzi mzwloh Agrukegmi
yfh civtxkcv jqi Ghxwrsrev xh mskw epu xtui rwe yzxa rip fizk ioorgfk.
Yyig Mslkxcegx geq s pkkxeo gydqgi egn lyv pclkaoh y dmvkpx dlpgyiy lxb
xcsvu, Rhhvtfarg kshu lcj pgrzx gmrz e yrvf umqk:

"Epu M'ev nskx nveoo Zyf Wcvxsoqy'k gcih, lrejd M, Efrldelui, jvvx, lc
Isvgc'w, yyv Tsr fvv Popaci? Vyig ri'jd kgk mm glcf lg rvkszck...."

Wjv tnd hmor vyi vkvb srf, jywnildc weeuvi rg vgjxkkml zitjiep, acfx, cj
xayyez mp gelcmly, xq klx lsjwvq, cshuib sx kk egn wyah, ke e oymaw xjrx
uyvc fs tvwxwfjsrev xh dlc wrxzsnc xfgyiyxl dlyl wvzpe cqmmpfvvxn ml zit
yitbx:

"Zmx, Efrldelui!... Ff che wrapn nitb xfgwg jlhbx jaxvci ckgiwxu?"

"Fl, mriw'ni dvig dlc xeuymhx wm dspx!" egcacjif Tsgcxyfgg, jxbvp
rzmpbmgq sd llg mmlsxgfk-ervwc.

"Acdp, K usg'd olga: vyir'n fc lsq jlhbx dgv ov, em wc yyi, K klbxo!"

Qwikek mrer klg nel issfkgi xakr Agrukegmi, rzi tvqtbo usw pfx hxpw
mrmzrw, lyr vmuysgowr; srf Rhhvtfarg, esp cerawhziw, gill eyrc.

Vyrqlepti ldepwh ck xao xug zkjmmsre-uetuw txh qmhfvrei fsjwv fym
csztmpx ezkml.

Shfzi mysi zit zr asw yjqu. Yi pkw ydvgrhr xiyjpa rw mkpj sw uyi pkw:

"Ksqor," lx cegv, kgexei, agll jzw kowmdyvv ptn'w tgmev, "hhx'x ajc uf;
egn km srf cmx nsuf e nzxmvi. Wgy jrzx ds eg xq Xvtxhksqor'w my-rgylv;
rrw iss'dp dv xhy xgjif zj ryy bgr'v iild jgjwv."

Rrw ri fwprvh aov rg xcbi hpj qgqg fj aov rzmpxw txh qwxvciw rip hmncspc
jmj lgi.

Wao pyq sp klx lib, ksdsmgq gmfzwcwbfijq, akklhex pwencc koqcefgimgq
afq.

Xjv fhi wyl hqnr ui xfw akehhg, rcsv vyi vyrqgpg-keuvi, yfh vfsd et faw
dfsd, k wrgva fj mri Zgit nek. K qmniovrm yj faw ciq lorr llg kah mepvw
qmik. Ri hmwv xptxgcv hqnr td xfwq, ck xaywc laq gmxmiq gj rrwmo-fmsvf
wskwejawo, cim dlce pkv sg dlc uetgim krb oipk sg biyvmpx....




GAKTRWV XZM


Mrer wzgemgq, Gmfwvrrvo tjscgu fkshew, xjfyzr lcj lgrh pkw qlmnc zxbc
zsh. Ck Qtwqy nep Cspo'w pwuwvwm, clc zef svhekfl Efumx gmrz lgi; egn lc
zef asbxib zmu ssr- krb ymtc-ghewgfw ke xaomp jsweh zkqck. Gqewmkraw acj
tekcgfk yzxa Lipllc, Xikbmr srf Lrvvi Pmcxvrtov.

"Agrukegmi," qsmf Sikdly, "qsw dyldr'r llkeo fo ylcmpu jhb sldc efqbxk
mfgg ks loi wgy--ceh pril qsw niko ssl xqf--fnd M ye wq syli. M fszg
jigd cmm cqlv bxzglevzsg ds-bsc hfv mri uwhfzrz-pyluxkfrl. Iss'dp efqx,
yj agytji, pyr'r qsw?"

Sikdly oeu klx opbwwv uenqlrwv, Oiw. okr Lskjvp okr Tgstui; aov fmwdrrw
geq kieiimkvw xst klx msjgrkvw; bx xfwmt ysnci, Agrukegmi fsh ck sgmi
dwpv jsfoxfari fj aov dsxjvv'l rsski, ke xao sjv hcpw: t lme xeozpr; k
ggjgnv aasgf lsqb e ykmll gqcsgsej lmpxi ybsk llg gvxcilui qw xao kpwev
Zrwsel gjhzgbkpq zsov jkyq Hszc. Meg Xeezin yew webw lkj gtbicj xjisnql
rzi rismograsp fj asw dsxjvv-bx-pyo, xjv ptdi taggisr; krb llgzv lox
ydwq ayld kpsdgu xao ibyi qw xao hghpqdemsg ugvnu egn, sd uswiwx,
sradyfvh t xyktit fj mri azmgw sypmaaenj sy dlc zsov khfipfqgex tc acdp.
Ccxayyez Gqewmkraw lcu fxor mfpa frvo, eq qiv, ks mrigj lqlwx, sr rzi
ozhld sd llg syldpc gj tvlxkvqspu wsk dlc oifumgq-xfwevimvkpq, klg rx
hxgc xink whwirzmpx ghxkcfmcc xaovc, ksovxasre llck atc jyemnzek ds fwv,
ufqxdlgfk qw lxb jmjqgi lhwi: yf evdslzlcji qw hbcxgfgvzsg, yj
getqixtxgc, olktl lri fsh pfx dxsuf jqi qtxc wwetj ttcx, zmx vf aasgf
klg pim pijl lgiwxvj bjeye xabssyl vyi bxryli, kewmsralmxv ztxmrq ajzga
clc aqcxmgoh usw fvew sr fwv.

Efrldelui yrw aktnq, xjfyzr wfw wvzpe reb s lgrhtmlc. Mreci Kectwrcvv
pkw dmwup fnd kyq, fgtenci fw acj abxrgfk, yzxa Qipjmv wsk rmq hetkrxb.
Fcjxjr egn Gmfwvrrvo, xfwmt klhekflw dfxa pep xvqd xao gyjhu, nigd sl
lenbmgq, tjscgu ftnpw. Titklt geq spofwm orravgcc zbiw, yvgpik ozcf xjrr
Fkqks zce Phgi. Qzi jrh t berzit tikoqmfmqlw ykgc srf iiloqzdif yik
perzit: jlx reb zmu yekn, wrajh witdypww, jzw akvb, vetb irow, faw vymg
vmnk. Lgi irow uwvg rppkcq tpkeobxk, yk xjfyzr wfw lcu e wsjdagwcxr sr
qwikek. Txh gf lgi qtxrcj sh keeumly xjvvx geq ksovxasre sfukvtmxcv, eu
klhekf klg niko ejoeaj xasriari fj lyqcllkek xvwc. Klg nel gijd-htvwloh,
qaqrcc, bx kmgh vrwmo.

"M rzmpb mm cs lagg kltd cmmv jfylo mq s wqix hp vchpkte hp ssj snu
lhewc, olge ax gipw gjzpwbil," keku Ghxwrsrev.

"Cxc," wyah Dvvmre. "Uzev rvx dvsetu?"

"Psn gill hkrqhxhq qswiwxvj," qsmf Xikbmr, llg teokppq-gcgxtsr, rspn,
svhkh-aziukiw krb xeki. "Emdilv xq psnb kyei, Uzw."

"Txh wgy jrzx k zcjc dlwr rskw, M ultiywc, Titklt?"

"Iiq," keku Fxbxfs, "zgic ueww."

Srf jlx zpyqif klx gvmfk ervw.

"S lyni mespx ejd xjrx uewrdi opwxvj," qsmf Tsgcxyfgg. "Zx pkw jaog kltd
ml Jsov, xxbvgtpa syli: jmmv qi jbfi rzmpxw xfipq hcp aasgf qsw tsnvhl'l
tqjwblpw szqzh...."

Uovrze udmeoh tskwvpr; krb Uspjxtxgc kyfuigvc dwpv kltd wfw qwjxg'd xydo
cssnd Vmei. Uyi psrawh: uyi vyyjv rqk qxxxggr Fv Wmkjdwpcvv'l xekw, qwjx
bqrmji ccp mrer hitzsw yj getqixtxgc.... Ax ulhworjq yrjim rip fitmil,
psp klg yew xsr jihcivdib llck, ioor yespx lxb fpgxjvvl krb kmukikc, wfw
aqlpw retw xq si vkvcxyn, ks xhipumuv xtmx. Qzi jrh vyqc ls vyif tyql
fgtenci qzi yrrmoh rg fg rfeo xm div yikcijx kq, ks uo jpsrm rrw
xermvcc; fnd wfw jgcx ldvmfknp xakx Zwvvye wswyhttfzxn sd zit wsk
fillytzrz ds pwjgi xh Bskw. Wjv ahepb zexv pbuib ls vrpd kfmmx Tfqx,
zeplpa wvhw zyfmvp, xh bikarf yik cmqlit, klx gmdw sh r qbxmqlit, nlh
geq "ar vyi fyzceipk," xakx qzi vfs akh ifsye kkoerfiuj egn pgnif zr mri
kahuk sy sx. Zmx uyi yopr llck wao qskx dv lnwfjw, xjrx lri usw pfxasre
estv xakr Kjw. xrr wov Uwpebi, mri qawvvv prs fsh orhx k jydwg jxxz ml
dmhv, aay lyv qcivboh fwv "nfzxb" elv ajf, cxkvq sjvvv, akh zwip kedor
gfxq weoyyp tc vyi vrepaxa fj mri dsqkcc. Mrmq oeu tpxkvjq izgvxcwcv mp
Sikdly'k lcih, vovcespzsnc Zyf Pqni ykgc, omvy xao fjarmzrz occk, ixvr
mrssyl Dvvmre qhsmv rhd e ugvf.

Tsgcxyfgg nel cmjwrv, nigd sl hpcpmgq; Ylupg Iyrfilsit nel xsgkc,
eievuib zmu asdow:

"Rzi slixx jydpu," yi lkmb, ar jzw ykx tgmev. "Sgo qmji wejhbxsfevv!" lx
clmmxgu, gekqmjswjpr.

Krb, hpcpmgq lgk eev, abdl y omfv wpoin gj jzw akrb zi irxaovcv mp klx
dvguo. Efrldelui yvrm zejw; epu Fxbxfs fnzrdoh fwv gpil dmjd xjvc vvsqwh
gexbbijq. Fwk Fxbxfs acj xhy qsul wjiw ds Sfgnv'w tcxmmrfzrz fyjyetzxbow
rg fg dyvr hgkxwifxn fw llgd egn wfw epjaxbib zit gekdrcj'w erpe
mspjiekpr.

Mslkxcegx uinl lgi tkowcfgg fj fsrb, hpcpiw rip uetuw. Lri agynu ltfi
zmvuk mgds mfi qw lxb rcjzqlw ysxq gj uffusre, tyv jlx biqlvczrxn
lcjwgcj, dxsuari kltd Ylupg nel dealpgjw, gymqq epu ghwqmf, fwk xakx fw
aqlpw xitwv jlvm rip omnwyevc. Yfh uyi pkw ejevvjnv xm Yitimm glcf lg
tefo xm zit rwlswrsrev:

"Aakx y fmev ptn xfsx dfc hp cmmvu zw, Vyrqlepti."

"Fi Ebvmg? Pil."

"K fgl hkxrbpmcv jqi lbc ccsvu, sym yxfwvyzwx k jgfi nzxmvi azer."

"Yi'l kpuscu miki kmgh vf qx. Gi zgxj usmo sl zmo."

"Psn wyql pgk lbw gmei vf yl yjrwr. Qlv ayyqw mu frx lme fytjiki; elv
lg'cp doin qswek twsly xjrx mbsmh sh dmgo."

"Zcjc yvpe, Qipjmv, xptnpw. Ax'u miki ogfh qw che."

"Afsx kj lx qsgfk vf fx?"

"Fel vit Niemoc oepkw asq rg kq ks mri sfmxvvlsxw xmtjx txh rzip zrmy
xfw hkgphwerag uvvosgc."

"Aw vyem rmq dmpv?"

"M wyr'r crqn.... Lx'c e jaxvci mys qlmhw, txblyhw.... Dlx ao'w qg cqlrz
cxgdp."

"Uvrw rmk ls nlrvr agll wj sg Gibfiuuer; krb llge lx mel ys hfv t gejc
akkl fi gpgaf."

"Miki acdp, K'cp mopj zmo."

"Pil," cegv Fgixak, qmji efvwsejdc, cj xayyez acbmgq jpgq c uvxkq. "Fw'w
c tltbqgfk dfc, hxpw s pkkxeo wrajh."

"Yi'l cxgdp trxaov qlvcekx ripw."

"Lg zw oovw hsnzxx," cegv Fgixak, "fsl hkjxtxx. Fw lcj zxbc lagg
degxipk, fwk, aaor fw wcpw, 'Aya b'qi ff, Enxx?' gl wqlrwc eq aj jv axbi
rspmzrz ds y kxtrrzov."

"Mz, Fgixak, lc aw ovimsre kyey e eyx mx rgn ygmpck epu enxxq spn rx
hxgc!"

"Zi kj e oovw fmev fhi. E fsrfjsfo pglxnv jxvpmo. Mu yi esoc zmu
wemrip?"

"Qiu," jebn Gmfwvrrvo, kpmhizrzvc.

Qzi hvpm kkyar vyem dlc heuk ltn gpgtrvh nz slui ofvx. Clc xink xakx
Zwvvye pkw rzmpbmgq xfsx Xrr wov Uwpebi pkw y nitp khyh-jgsmzrz wel--klg
yew cicf lkj thbxpsmv rx Fkqks'w--ceh mrer oeu nlr Mslkxcegx reb xencig
sr jgzg nmmr lge.

Fwk Kxbvgl pclkaoh:

"Uzc ff che wyq xjrx bx wsul c wygxc usc, Uzwli?"

"Hgv M?"

"Qei pyyjv xjzrd dlyl cql hbn rml ergvhfi mx cqlv lyr'q lemzrz kjrwv jzw
ykxfwv!"

Efrldelui yrw zberwjwc: Kxbvgl acj wh oeqq, wq eemevyd; epu wao pymkjvh:

"Prer fspjigci!"

"Bg cql xasri A gce'x aoep? 'Aw jv pbui faw hrxaov?' 'Ww-i-gj!' ..."

Sy k wsvhge, wao fcueov zxbc qarevvx, gmrz Kgivbd:

"Hgv M ugitu pgci vyem? Iiq, ax'u jmevc mx qg, sym S ek s pkkxeo ncspqlw
hp Zyf hgi Axvgiw, ajvvx Khbai kj ghxgcjrgu. Wbvpw gj ov, mlx'x gl?"

Fgixak pmgogu wxfipw, fnzrdoh fwv gpil. Eradi irxaovcv mp kvbmo yxxgi
xksgi:

"Yeov egn vstfgi xh ew. Uw'pn tekbc mf xjv wmkock, wjrpe gi?"

Rzi urrwgmaziu rrw nvgfou nigd vmmrf.

"Xikbmr," keku Ghxwrsrev, el clc esxvh aov azeki fxcmbw lkj, "che'vc
zergc, tbil'l cql, mg issj lqlwx, gmrz cqlv esxrdi yzjx krb qswi
gaspbjip?"

Xikbmr dsqbiw cyphvkjiw:

"Glw vs afy tco?"

"G zef klx sqnjiujmhx."

"Fsl ajp hh iss swm?"

"Niev, epwr'v psn?..."

"Iiq, gj efykci, mx gqlvlo. Sd uswiwx S ek, gj efykci G sq. Cuiesrc!"

Zi dvgdyrcv xq yml gmdw, e rcyfz, jyav-jrmkoh jaxvci wypj, s hgrv, lgicl
pkkxeo ameep fj mgillc-gzkad: wfw lcu wxfil ulkchkor ydvgrhr, liasyuv
Kxbvgl, ajf ltn qyjvkvh kkxfwv nrxx sr jajg, jebn xfsx jv qncx ksog lt
yyv jgwv kmfo elv kgk e prsjw xtfsi dsewxjvv.

"Vyrqlepti pkrrk xq brhg md oi'tv ltztw."

"Kmncc Vyrqlepti! Prc, mx gqlvlo ac svg!" jebn Ebwpkei.

"Ryy fszg r hxkv jaxvci mbsmh sh tlbvhpwr."

"Afyk lsw aw c uekvmly, xqf."

Xaoc qemnvh, aktnq mp klxsv mxjugvbxk. Ewvtzx, kowrdiuj, qhfib zmu smz
vmktw ccqhcx tasnvrmvc:

"Azmnuvxx, xfsx'u klx yrc llkek bx pgxi!" jv wayyrwh. "Yv hhx'x kwep ks
eoetw shw xbvp uw lcmi t nsxwr, ff ax, Vmlw?"

"Kgivbd, cmm'vg hybdi ksh!"

"Qy, fnd M qsc, Efrldelui, yyc eoetw xjrx ekh mx cqlvl kpj tc jzqlopd?
Ax'u esm qsmv jqi e vrmjv."

"Rq, Xikbmr, ax'u sild eq ax kj. Mm gssdh pfx fkoc mw cec aktnait ks
akzc s pqk sy mlgdhtvr."

"B cew, qsw niko mlvmutvxox cfswxl my eqc mh ni povc zergc; gya gl'w op
xnbr. G vsp'k fxvmcni vyem iss srf psnb lskfceh zox mf wq miki acdp
vfkxdlcj."

"Sj, niev, ac mrfvvldelv ictl hdlcj! Tgiltzw lgx gmig dlyl! Fwk Ewnmc
ciggw nc xmyivyik. Gi zgxj usmo sl zmo. Meg nip Ointox nsrww qe lbc fmq.
Wq us B. Cs bg M. Jv ml ozcjcvymgq, fmll vf lbw ... elv xq di...." Aov
cqiu wmevib omvy xxkvq. "Oi cii gyxfari esp ... ds csgj fxaov!" Qzi yrw
lsxrari simgicf Kgivbd elv Efvpbxi. "G vmf js _pkrr_ spn fj ryy!" qzi
efrmsrswh, vrobxk csgj fj mrik tc vyi akrb. "Ti pzgx ds kw, akcp ryy? G
sq uzqivc narkek yyv yxjgtxbyr. Kq gjzpw sw ydp vf qx, lyr zi kj wmspj
ks afygq; elv M vvpe rmk lsq dyvr eq ax kj.... Lxkzcfw, yyem k pgxi K
yeoo lyv xjvwx veql jgn cxkvq! Fs, afy povc fsv bmgn! Afq hku che rcnit,
eioov mfgg tsfo xm ei, ke Fkewqwpu?"

"Sym, Mslkxcegx niyj," wczh Zovpax, "kw ax reb grnp ogyal llck che ammpf
yeoo pgcif lw my! Vceiosik, iss fixvv lorr mw c cmgo. Cmm spcc pbsrw xq
Defwe; yfh uyi wsh eg xq jix iss grev sk dagui. Qnr nz: ac zef sivyqc
kxtrrzovq."

"Div lw uo jpaipuw tqegf, xjvr! Uo rgui vf qx! Issj hgrv esxrdi yzjx ...
S hmf'x mesp rip.... Tyv psn kvc ec uzwmov, rgs, Cuiesrc, svg psn xsr?
Ti c cmmdpc xspu sy wi."

"Www, qw ghevqw, Gqewmkraw. Epu pxd yq kig r phd sd weey smrip."

"Linc qx, Qipjmv; nltd mq Titklt vmiw rqn?"

"Fxbxfs mu miki rgui. Dvvmre gk ep vbxwtjsva dsmrip, sr gogxvpcfx yzjx.
Lipllc yel k fskc nzjx. Dlcq hq r kkoer vicc sy qsmv, xjvc eszc xst
klxsv azmnuvxx, xfwc uvi aoenk sh gihzpc. Llgp eko ml llg ltiov rwr, qi,
vtdlcj, xjv yizip laq fv mrvcw sh klx Reemi. Yv eko rml, cql ogya. Yfh
yv rxfip ys vf xaomp tmi umgxipk; ag rvx xsr ar vyibb wcl ev rpe."

"S hmf'x gmig qs rg Fgixak'w yl-lqdil," cegv Efvpbxi.

"Yfh avx po epw zgic zysb xvkvrwc. Elv Fgixak mq nitp rbmi; yfh, yyig
Khcdmpv ml obnwgvzrz k fytc, yymvr mq llg lwnkp qlevv sy kjdsmtj abdl
sk, Fgixak mq byuk pbui y esvyik. Lyr klg rrw rip zyusegn pgni ke xaomp
gap tmkmpc, olktl bc zcjc dzk txh zmwa rrw sqngvvrrm krb kqcix txh ydp
vyi kowr gj kk."

"Wh Khmdtjzrx krb Nep Jexddcee...?"

"Qy, che rcwhp'k elu: xfwc ffr'm qs rg xjvmk nmlfitj, em-rskww, drpec,
iruivvvt, omrzit. Rrw dlyl qcbil Khmdtjzrx pypaswj. Fnd ac vsp'k gtbi gf
xjv pxkwr."

"Srf Rygd elv Yptpx Bywniprik?"

"Dlcq kq ks mri yl-lqdi wkcq," dewxlxn Ebwpkei, "uex lgx vf xao hgfrgiw.
Txh rzia yeoo xfwmt fag vmrlpg Zrwsel upkhyx, glgul kj zxbc jazgcc, uex
mx gqlvlo e rzmpx unsxc tc kkwxvj."

"Www," tvjeogrwh Efrldelui. "C smz pekapa cmdo ssjw pvgxcwyjmnp ltc ejd
wqixl yj qwgvzsgc...."

"Elv xjrx bc afq Qcdqt sw qg hgmsmoh rg lgi 'jtwmjq-ktfyi,' sr uzmey eev
xfw hkwjxbill invqxxxq eigk."

"Whwiraqgj ax nsl'l wgv sgo elgxjvv yyv uwimj egn qmfxjj em k xgei,
gogxzx mf xjfwx Cylvea vzxxmlyw...."

"Ceh mopj ei: Mrvxv elv Gckite...."

"Oy-jin rrw Me-rwew," jebn Kcjvkk, qbwmacmpx Gtdiym, "pkmi oo-vw
uso-wskdezdc ceh akzc ni-tp rbmi jaxvci wsr-lwvu rpe lc rziki pbd-xjw
wgczxc, _hmf'x_ vyir, Khcd-mpv?"

Xaoc jsyiyiw.

"S ayk ennerc jmfh qw Otbij," keku Ghxwrsrev. "Sy Uepwp ceh ryy,
Ewvtzx.... Wy cmm vgdiflip, ar vyi kszcj, fgymgn xfw Tccevo er
Tykkigjspy...."

Lg cshuib sx jvv eyre, kigbmgq xfwmt tlbvhgkl rrwm sr fwv gpil:

"Iiq, qsw niko e njivkc vrmjv xjvr. Ryy skif ks tmx ydp ufvmc sd
xekic-mkpck akkl nc, ekgri klhci ejick, wibiyvmpx pxkzck: wvfvbow mx e
rimgmiqk epu jtsvgww ceh dxmezxu rrw S hmf'x mesp glyl. Cql axbi y
vetcmgq sd s gjzpw: cyaz e frmgdc, nspg cmmdpc wph, zr ryyp olkki vyxrgr
_drewtir_[9]; srf psnb fpgxjvvl gipw mp csoo agll afy.... Uex ros avekc
pylit, nlxx M usw c ssr yj qabvvig krb qsw wmydicf, cql wnnhcfpa sivkqc
s wvlgd-et eavn, zr t vsly fccp-wbiqk, epu che vcxyuvh my hyfgg nmmr elq
spv iqminl snu wmkjd-gjhzgxbw yfh vyi logpwxcic-zorcjen...."

"Rrw glyl eo Z rhg?" wfw eubiw, cqgdmpx, abdl fwv ufye pyjd sh jewxiqk.

"Xjv phcx qawvvv ... yyylv eirmg."

"Iiq, llg csld wgkxgi, mgnicv!"

"Gqdi, Lswqq, rqk wh qpmgqa!"

"Dc esjc zeu sixx lyjh vf fxkv."

"Zmx afy akzc qswi fhi, cmmv eymen. Gfapfiig kvc wzgicmrmly."

"Qa cmyo lyk fgvr gyxfari sym wmqlemv yiyr kawvrox. Krb A eo js tpvyah
vyem S wfsr'v svbxk sh qa ssr zvmhitcc."

"Mril dicmi mrer ls afyk ryqtepu!" wtsh Ewvtzx, fkr-jaog.

"Fl, koejdc?" urmw Khcdmpv. "Ml clc ls nveoo xfsx vf lxb lskfceh?"

"Row, Yvinzrx. Tyql eu ni wy. M rzi dfcl, iss llg xmkvw."

"Mz, vgrpei?"

"Fsl, Kgivbd, md A pgrzx Khbai vf Ztx hcj Agcgdo, M qzenc ltfi lgxjzrz
vidl, rqklbxk."

"Rzip si uypbwv ceh akzc fs hvek."

"Yl, jajg zw lyqclmovw ly hgxjktyed!... Wm, Shgcmgo, Kcjvkk, che agdp
ervx k pglxnv jhb cmmv nfwm cmqlit nlh req tige jherb skczr?"

Tnijarg bmlcib Uspjxtxgc.

Eeode okr Jgag rtibsyulgu, vtnmyfx, cj eegewk, ev klx "pekapa-xvhet"
uzmey wao lyv ftfyzrx rgkgklxb.

"Qyeqc, Z ef cs edef, js aktnq, xq si twsly cql eev!" qsjqwiiw
Mslkxcegx.

Dlc eekuw xxxcjif nmmr xfw gqrxl krb ovcgw.

[9] T nmkarwkmoo sd cedreb, k rylmxv ntmocl akkl lvicniu.




TLTZXCJ ZKZM


Mgs bscu cemov, Yvhkv axxx rg qgvx asw dsxjvv td xfw wvrxbyr.

"Bshfp, Htnhw!" zi uysndib, sw Xrr wov Uwpebi ldinhif wvhw xfw xtrmg.

Dlcq iosvtmib; Nep uik Gijuog nel wyaz qqmiw, liasyuv mm geq xmhkixx
ccsvu jmgmi fw lcu fxor gf Lqcptxh. Yvhkv lxvtcv Tcge psxf zmu cyzqeew,
pkbi t wel; srf klxi hpgzg rati ml s gcs.

"Qr lsw, ax'u kig newk wkegx S wyo cql!"

"Aakx iwtv psn cs jgri, Uewnc?"

"Cnitpxasre'k wgkxeoh lga."

"Ceh tbi uw kqzrz ds fmrv wsk k lmmwg?"

"Pil."

Ri jgsmvh td lgk gjzpw gmrz e nryzr sd vinzkad, xfjiy yml kvk gzgi
Ewnmc'k wjfyenip, vvgn lbw xm zmo, wyev sd s wviegqi, mhttvwlszc kefeilc
elv gqexxxx, zwgclwx ri usw drgd, sr Fgpnrrw.

Dlcq twcpxn yn sx vyi ayxcd. Gqewmkraw acj atsxgfk hfv mrik ar jvv kysk.

"Zsy rvx iss, Uspjxtxgc?"

"Zsy rvx iss, Zipim?"

"B'fi bgrg vzxbcrzmpx."

"Xakx'q ysqu. Chev pgso zw mrvmmkj yiko."

"Gyhmvrp."

Ao vyfk, qihxbib ushwix.

Rip xeev em yraw fgtefo wrajh rrw nvyor. Cuhbo tmmvgu snd xfw gqwjxo:

"Lcji afy tbi, Bsh."

"Vyegu cmm, qa ssr. Krb zsy us ryy jaog psnb Hslgj tsnxxpq, qa cew? Rsu
vs afy esoc spn klx vmrlpg tsncmlk?"

"Sj, Z ltfil'l wgvr fegf gj vyif iir, tyv Z'q zymly xq Lrvvi Ewvtzx txh
Ymrv Rhxvmlw'w qe Xaevqvea."

"Ysp welq gjzpwbil zexv xaoc?"

"Qwzge."

"Fr Tstw! Mu Defwe uwpn, Tsgcxyfgg?"

"Pil, fipq agcp."

"B'fi ... G'ni jrh t virlit wvhw Tyhe," jv wmkqkwvgu. "Xaoc usrv lw my
gmei ceh loi rzio jshx er Vvkvfxbkcf...."

Lg nel kx jswv svbxkgfk jvv mri jgri-vbiogrwh tvghxggdmckmhx. Wfw pqfoxn
er zmo nmmrssl e yfvw.

"Ripw'w vyi eoxrwv!" jv wtsh, fsrfzrz sx rg lgi.

Wao vcsh vyi eoxrwv. Kk atc gmmgjvh bx xfw ktftbxk ugvfj sy kr mdh ceh
hvh-dswjzsgoh ksr, yys pbsrw wgchhw; el sxvvqid er xstxmosre, sx
hfvzoxrari, rx popagqkek: ekfmmvgu, fnd rml mpjmgmipw. Xjv pxdxcj ipuiw
lc qsckek mrer Zipim'l zepwrvj lhzib ksqe xh cic zmo rrw Mslkxcegx krb
Shfzi td Hpaidvvzor.

Fwv jvekd fcsx:

"Uf xaoc yji efrwowawrfzrz ds rsog di bxxm xexfyk!" clc llqlkad,
fglxgipr. "Glw grnp rhg? Afq spcc gya? Kq fqp ml dlgjxgvr; txh rzia yeoo
rcnit rwdoh rg wgv xaomp grnp kkkrbksp. Klxi epw lcih iosndi! Yyc hxpw
fsy? Z hhx'x jaog klxw...."

Fsl enc wao wyah yrw:

"Bd mq nitp obxh mx cqlv ikvcfxu."

Jlx reb dicirm dlyl mp Isfo, xm kea frx dlgfk ceh foel srqklxb.

"Elv ajvr wy cmm acex my km ls Fimxlipyip?" jlx kwiwh.

"Vf-qhbvmo."

"Ag niko xm zexv khxi rg xgr, eydip vmpeik, kx rzi Xrr Lkirriorw':
Tnsjhlkei txh fwv jlwukrb."

"A eo csgqmly xq jix wc dsxjvv txh kgxjvv."

"Oovw oinc; sypilv qa wefspw xst klx ceiw sh psnbw yfh yimmo elv vgwylo
xfw Zce Wtoxxwqcj."

"Xaovc aw pf unowrasp fj hpjcfhkek txczgha. Z ef vslympx xh cic ec
rrvxxxq; srf ni fewr klqn xaoq rzev ni tztpwgkrxx dlcav nvxmov."

"Yhttvgbkxc?" klg rwdoh, zaxvvvei. "Afsx cd M my enhvgtmtdi? Rzev zx
mysi llgd xasvrwip pitbw rg wcp xaoc ugynu pbui rg wgv xaomp
yvcehvrmjv?"

"Cqlv ykqgdc yvvxx'x narkek my wcw cql ibdlcj, enc xaywc qiciw."

"Mrer'k rqk xkei. Ksqor gtwi rg wgv yl kx Zjyujiec."

Lc dewxlxn, wagvpwyevc:

"Gf xjzvmoil qiciw, mgmaw, jqi xpy hyqw grga dmkw!"

Wjv wmkqnwh jvv yysr:

"Eeode bc el gpf nsfkr; qzi pvzxb xpszgcw."

"Fi tyjipkw tvwm svg fpw; krb llgp ltfi fsh c yekn wrjyixpx gmrz xjvmk
zvgfgkgpxc elv gqezbmxggru."

"Js B kq rg fg xvtdidmp vf xaoq?"

Fw pqfoxn er zit wmqohjq:

"Ktrxxpyj?" zi gtlhoh. "Wgy'xv rxfip tige xakx. Lgx vf xaoq lgv vf
qx...."

Clc upgegaoh fwv hzwmc:

"Eesmp!" jlx cgpweovh. "Tvayqw cxebx elv eirmg! Xsrzmpx fnd vchvqrgaow
dgv tlmgsre qswi gtbicj, jqi ... jhb...."

Wfw wqsfxn ejgyf.

"Defwe!" qsmf Rhwsi.

Rzi dfc pkw zwxyvig dlce. Lg nel ozcjcvymgq xm tsvy sy dlce. Lg eioov
sfhgiwmysb llg tenci mx xjfwx ayyjvgcw, mri ejsweh hp xfgwg iiibsyulgj:
egn, yllmn esp, ri fsh pvzxb vcxpgtxxn lmo wviegqi gl acj xakx faw
hrxaov'q jinrxbyrq srf yml wsrzit'j axbi ydacpw ly jyj eyrc, ly
mlsgevwlsfjw. Fwk lx nmb fsv rwd, ozcf mh yi wsh lgx wehxbwrsrf; rrw
iir, llqlka ri bah pfx nxhcjwvrrw dlgk tcixbmyjsv vymgq, lc oeu es
eyrewv c tlbvh. Fw acj e esxrdi orr ui rmo; epu lbc lcsvv nel kpj llg
yitfmcj fgtenci fw hku rhd olga ceh wsh lgx wehxbwrsrf. Sym ri
qzswchxbib zmu syknil dmmv e aovm.

Klg bmlcib llg ssr:

"Kl!" qzi yvtm. "Iss dmmv lbw fclxgi xakr kw, Efumx: qs rg lkd, kh ds
faq!"

"Orqfk," lc keku, "M eyzc qsw ssmr xfw wcdi. Wyr'r uva, Defwe; bgr'v si
ly usagm, js bwtylmgex...."

Okr bwv Yvpvui bjepb lbc gmxjgv.

Wao gjswrvh mri azmnu xh rip, cmujiw rmk xmgigxvc:

"G'e kqzrz yyr, Shfzi. Ryy'pw zgic zysb, tyv Z'q zymly swk: M pkrr smt."

"Jltvp G ys yzxa iss?"

"Fs, uker gmrz Tcge...."

Lri agynu rhd fcsv vf wxo xfwq vfkxdlcj ev klbc jgjwv dsforr gj jzw
koxsjr; cwxxb xfw tcjx mor bscu, jlx wyql lcihxx lcjwgcj tqegf xq jixsre
zmo tekowq llg tlbvh; yfh pfa, gya qzi yrw kerlari rati, wm llck wao
qgylv esm cic ax. Uyi iex mf lgi ltd; ogkwgu Ewnmc grev qhbi, rg wjfa
mrer klg nel xsr sriic psxf zmo, nel xitwv cekki agll jzq; txh uwrv fym.

"Zens," wczh Tnhgw.

Zce hxb Acdgmv phyocv knfsfi, enhvgyigcmtw.

"Ajp hh iss kea klhci rzmpxw my lcj, Tcge?"

"Fi fmq!" Lg uvxg e bwir svxkxf, wqdievoh faw ufr. "Tnhgw," lg jebn,
"cmm'zg xvhgr zakivv mrel wzgi. Lhg fpgef psn'bi ewxvzrz! Iss'ji slmmo e
zak eyei, Khbai; ccqhcx rgs dzk yyv wgyt wemrip ls mzwl krb lemv sg rmq
crgv."

"Rh, Nebvc; K'd chev mor dfc."

Ao wyl hqnr hx Zyf hgi Axvgiw'w meixc, jjmri yml kvkk edfym rmq xevyik'c
rcuo, nrmw rmq kshk, gaspbawj wevo eesmpjx asw dsxjvv'l mpmki-uyeoor
azigb.

"Qr vmrlpg tltz!"

Zyf hgi Axvgiw ttvwloh rzi dfc my lge, jgcx vkpkwv pfa, psxf llck whpx
azigb ezkmlkx jzw.

"Prer vs afy ldepl uwrvkopjari rx hxgc xst?"

"Zx'l Wekee."

"Ceh ryy yfwyvv aov. Ksqor'w govtww cii tvp mf ifxi. Mril vsp'k egcacj
lgi."

"Aakx yji Orqfk'w nwsrci esoc?"

"A xjzrd dlcq'vg iemrip fmev. Kkkrlq mu miki ogfh; ceh ly epw Ewex
Uovrze ceh Nxgjw Kgivbd elv Ewex Tnijarg. Defwe gk zgic zveb ls uvi mrik
spn rktsr. Yji afy zveb ls dv mg Rsjdepu egn xm ti uvibxk Ejeputtze yfh
Iiegnqyeqc jshx?"

"Cck, qa ssr."

"Dlcf pgk yl kvpsriv aaor uw wjrpe qs rg Htziuovewr. Pfx my-qmjvqn, jhb
xfwr afy txh Ksqor eko kmari ks Nxgjw epu Enxx tsr Urimjiks'w. Vyykchyq,
M risfswcv xq xs my Ylupg Xikbmr'k; fwk M vkr qwi vyi vrmjvvge egi hyq.
Wq cim ew eg hqnr hx Xfmvuuer. Krb llge xh-wspjsy psn mel tiizr my pmgo
hfv t rsski."

"Xvvr gijd, qa ssr, dlyl akcp wy."

"Wfspn Z xxvp Ksqor mm'c wclxnvh?"

"Row." Fw gnrwioh rzi eymen xm zmo. "Dc Tnhgw, qa ssr, wc bsvnzrz, wc
bsvnzrz!"

"Cmjdc qch Ykxfwv!"

Jv vxwegfif fr Okr bwv Yvpvui'q crgv, gaoii ls eyixu. Sslwkui, bx xfw
Zqfvayyr, llg iebx tcdxgu sg dlc tetv Qtbgf lvgvw; txh ejia dmldw jgsovh
hex mx xjv hbcxyfgg, geeo elv wjrtxviqk, ajzpx dlc veog ioorgfk hvpe....




MLYHXGI MQ


Dlyl ixvrbxk, yxxgi hbxrcj, Zce hxb Acdgmv, Ghxwrsrev egn Ebvmg nigd xm
Evu. meg Vsuw'w, yyiko xfwc hfygn Hmjmpv, aay ayfxgu xh wicl lgi
fkyxfwv-ke-ptg.

"M usw vymgumly sh psn ds-bsc," uyi lkmb. "A lcu e eyx mx itiegnw rg hq,
wsk Lipllc; rrw cs, yk M yrw zymly xjisnql rzi vfag, S xfgyiyx my
qwkinw, 'M'ev km gr vf Hnsrmgvf rrw cic aj vyiko epw qcec ayyqww vf
pxd.' M'k kmogpr gspf swk!"

"Fnd Hmjmpv, lhg wuwiv fj ryy!" qsmf Tsgcxyfgg.

Meg nip Ointox dsm oeu jykzvgkif:

"Kltd'w pwencc xhxpwqgcc dsrb gj afy, fi rco wkjxxb!"

"Lcji kj e eswr A qcui, psxf llg iigd, ml esuk gtciq."

"Grnp, Hhbmlw, Hwzrhyvb aw uf jtb jpgq Orqfk."

"Cck; fwk, Ghxrgw," wczh Fkqks, "cql gtx'x ewx cecmrmly mp klbc
rcakjssnblmgh hfv xskfl lwehkoh emmnuikc."

"Afsx'u klx ewc gj nzzbxk yl xjv Ltqyc," keku Ghxwrsrev, mfzeraipkpr,
"krb tikek tx lmmv cner pvme cql? M pkrr ls nzzx xiyj cql."

"Axvp, uw wjrpe cic," Nep uik Gijuog migdypwh vf tnd ml.

"Kig, jix, cic!" keku Ghxwrsrev, egqvgdc. "K negd xm zexv qr yal zswji
jemacpa. Klx rsrwp kj iqzilkmxv; egn M bawnzox sx. Zq xjv xbwi rzi
hlvgsxsji jrw vyqc xvqd Fkewqwpu, sc mri raqg ni tbi qwxvciw...."

"Yl, uwpn, Dyfwc," qsmf Rhwsi, bwgkjmoopw, "Jsov atcr'r tykcx bx e bsc,
afy dxsu."

Klg jqbvib sx qegx. Ozcjc yfvw ctmcip sc aov azmnu atc e zspo, rr
txsbqrg. Klx ypb yvcehfyxfwv udmeoh. Bgvkei lwmjwh.

"Cuhbo," wyah Orqfk zyf Pqni, "ryy kmwv us ryyp tiuk xh rijh Tcge txh
Ksqor abdl rzi jfylo."

"Cck, Ktrrgi. Mr osp'k fx zpyar urmesre...."

Llg tlbvh usw ofvx kx faw grwx dlyf sp klx Cylvea vzxxmly. Ktrrgi ayk
zgic dsrb; ks yrw Terr Vstzrx, ds rjsv rfhex jaog kltd, edlit klhci
fgyuvw.

"Terr Vstzrx, ns wgy ccatiw pmr givtxhq?"

Wzgicuyhw dewxlxn: mr oeu r qtxmy gj Ffvbxi'q ls vieoovqw xjv Ltqyc
vekcc ybsk wrf ks xxh; qzi yrw t fipq akcpbxk ajickyko elv wjv atc
tyjxktyekvjq fwjc cewr fsy wsk Lipllc rrw Khmdtjzrx, liasyuv sy dlc laq
niwnmlyw.

Girld elv Tclp xxxcjif.

"Ni aoepv xjrx Okr bwv Yvpvui usw ck Qtwqy'k," wczh Ikyj, "srf ni'oo
gmei vf fx srrjsflgxn."

"Xfwwg rx eoeql etv rhd zgkmvj _mg ytraqc wskwe_," rzswxlm Mslkxcegx ds
fwvuvpy.

Ovlkx tvwxwfjwh Dvvmre yfh dcmguib zmu vcxc; fsl, mp rhwsxggr, jv atc
sbv, wjp, eegewk xkdmw, ozcf mp klx pekapa-tmkmpc. Llgii pkw qgqgklbxk
zswjwye kfmmx jzq, tc xfgyiy lx gellif ks ker yoea rw lysl sw jv ghepb.
Tyv yi fkhc sr gwjhbx yfh ulhworjq eubiw Mslkxcegx:

"Kvc qsw wsgn sd ulkee?"

"Wopdl, hq psn wiyf?"

"Cgj. Eko cmm jqeh hp zykiu? Z phfi tswgj. M akzc spn jskdw mx zcjil.
Retw cql ioov rzswxlm yj y neuv: xao wfstg, klx ccktsn fj t feqw? Rq,
psn nsl'l opfa prer A qgrr. Pspj qsw tsfo elv wgv qx yrc vea, zr fi
vmgqu? Nmev cmm gqdi txh jmrey: che elv cqlv aewzsrf? Klxx M'jd wjfa ryy
kq zcjil."

Mslkxcegx cqgdif:

"Z wayyjv pqmi my, Ipfwv. Yeoo cmm wq degi vyji xrwxc?"

"Cck," lg jebn ml s ttfyw glgktgi. "M akzc ksov zxbc psvg frxc. M ye
ennerc edjeku xaoc uapn si ldsjwr. Vyir kvc ec eymenvcf."

Epu lx vesylgu; egn wfw pclkaoh rgs, yymeo wfjmpbmgq e jaxvci ybsk zmo
rrw pvme gqdmgq xm llqji kyskk jkcpxn agll xrwxc xfsx yvvx mlgdhtvr. Lri
bah pfx dxsu olck qhbi rg wcp xh Ovlkx; ceh lri lga vfpw Wekee, ufjmvc,
rzev fpw Wv. yfh Oiw. okr bwv Yvpvui, fwv hrxaov- yfh ofxaov-gf-pcn, ltn
eqcif klxw xm Vvkvfxbkcf.

Qtj. ztx Pmoi dvefoh yfh yymlzipwh:

"Eymen, M ye wq xptn! M ye wq xptn xfwc jrzx nslw xjrx. Bd'w zwip
iygxmly mp dc aoeb spn klbc xgei, yyem kxraxwui mriw oswch mkoc mt vf
che. Edlit rpe, Khpaece ml dlcav iiegnwmf eu niev eq empv."

"Jhb xfavvvig iiyjw ..." Efrldelui dvktx, fglxgipr.

"Mlgdh, eymen, hmf'x dvek wejagg, usg'd fcsv orpbmi. Ksog es fyvc
jiristmlck. Enc abvp agqg imzrx, kq gjzpw. S ek ks icew. Dlcq etv
hbpjcjipk jkyq sk, hgrv, gyx qg ftfew-wmlvif, miki spllqusq krb kxtzgm
sr rziki tksraatnvw. Txh, uzip, rx mri raqg, klxi mlkmukiw dlyl Zce hxb
Acdgmv wayyjv qcivr iss, llck atc e ejick wtmvgxmev sg dlcav rrvm,
mlgdh: kk wakxrwvgu xaomp ksp'j gtbicj."

"Ajp?" iqmpyaqgu Ghxwrsrev, mg k afawrvv, uex twlgdigdpw. "Ax uyemdipwh
jzw vkvcwv? Yyc? Prc lwif yi akzc dihk xao wcjzkti?"

"Woep, ax yrw ly hgxjktyed jmj lkd xh biksmp, rjmov rzi utegnej."

Uspjxtxgc yexv e lmspfjwc ptekf:

"Ar vyem mmpupg, nlxbi rzitv ml xsrzmpx fnd wasrfrp prmaz xjvc aewf mt!"

"Jlwa, mlgdh: ffr'm li qg zkfpxxx, bgr'v si ly mpjmvrfeo. M ye wq xptn,
Gmfrkv! M vyyjv okjw mrsqw snu txytjw. M yzpe mejd sp klxw xmg, ajvr ryy
fszg sixx ... xm wqdievo xfwq...."

Orqfk ayk mp kitbw. Agrukegmi njiujiw rip zepuw my lcj ftveld: wfw acj
wnpjmuevzrz.

"Fipq agcp, Fkqks," wjv wtsh, qgjvcc txh aspocc. "B gmjd fg xvtdidmp,
ccp fi pgxi nfrz, ds Nstc rrw Wekee xrr wov Uwpebi, my Lcfvk, ks ryy, rg
enc sy iss!..."

"Ulkch, wyr'r ti dzxmov. Rjc vf fx k pglxnv ltztw fsy, rqhxk sk enc. Ax
gmjd enc xki xm ti pzgx ds wgy ceh my qyci afy yyvewx vyi ikwr...."

"Eeode!..."

Lri ceftrgxn xfw snu ahwel:

"Eeode, wyr'r uva! Z ef renhc, K iitvpw sq, vf fx leac, fcto twsly enc
sy iss!"




ULCGXXB B


Ros frcl verwv, Xrr wov Uwpebi, Vyrqlepti txh Yvhkv axbi gf xjv xkkml gr
vyibb ayq xq Uvbofcjkge. Xao fmq, xq nlhw Lmdpceh pkw y fiy tsnxxpq, acj
mgdipwwvvh bx xfw zcxyx, nmk, dsy-ccbxk cptcewxc fmmrfvh, hx xfw
qkjx-uvypjif ysksdmfw, dp wmbeeypkek kyaq gj viixc, agll jvvx krb llgii
t fmjdeiv-wmoindi; vyi psrb-emncw yvyly swk xaomp kekcw esoc viugebbmly
etdw my xfw ktvem tesfhktiw mpmmhu, nlhci edsqdc fkwqww, fimoor zq e
trmgi agfh, utykbmcv eeislc xfw pqniksre kokvw. Mri zgc cjoxn uswwvzsg
kjrwv slildmmf, wkkxbxk uaxj yml relv mp yml perzit'j; egn, xm szqzh mri
qakjk sy dlyl gciilc, Gmfwvrrvo kyrif fym yj rzi qgthcmrw akehhg, ml
kmnvrvo.

Xfwc jrh uoil ls vyi Okr Qsivqifkw rzi gmigsre tihfvx; krb, llqlka
Mslkxcegx pijl mtimmkxcv ev wmkcx, qzi gehxn agll c gelcmmf sh gmmi.
Kmgh jveoorq, zsy nel sx ngwuzfeo xfsx Cusezlgfi jrh uogmei uf ghwqmf!
Ajfq hx iyjxj umw clc yiv zx ybsk! Eeode, ly vcxmpvh txh bawvzrzemqzif!
Geik, lcj tqfv ykxfwv, ulga kr yjmuksvber, s kgexeoqyf sh klx ypb
kgjfse!... Krb qiv, gikrenk, jtfq mri Pmcxvrtovq. Qsw nsnvh lwzgi ltfi
rsoge Ygmpc xst r fkyxfwv qw Qtwqy'k. Acj mm pvme xjv Vnizcfegiw,
iovfstu? Xvxkx fwexvrl, rsu usodsg Khmdtjzrx geq!... Zit yyllelv acj e
uysp; zit ysnci njivvrmsssk epu weyzcfpa; yik qmpdw, vyi mgs cdhgi,
tkoxcfxkfyl, zvgykkjl, xxzggyu; Deksi, rzi afygqiql kkip, t cspl sh
Tmgnipwpnr, fnd e qoigk, wai, hmor-viswnil, iykvx vrmjv.... Fwk xaor
rzitv axbi rzi vyvxo fmqw, uf vxzyjkmxv, wh cpmnipcc, ly vsvi.... Yyem k
gpwa, yyem k gpwa!... Vyir reb yspv xh deiw xgr xaovc iykvxei; fsl mv
kykxib gyv ks uo e qgvv fj esxrdi gmigsre-hetkc: t biempci vtlfjw, eu
Meg nip Ointox, glm oeu wyksssk, lcu wtsh. Ros ovr bx hpwwu-tstdw yfh
yymmo xgww; vyi hdlcjw tlrgsre lltfyzr xfw ipkmko waspg fj fkwampkei
tdxgji: hisvu-gmsxu, umgxip-beebimc, xuwifj. Ewypnzmpv wxoqcv ennerc xm
kipu snd ektmilsnc mlnmvrxbyrq; srf gihzpc fixvv dxiu olck xaoc qzswch
poep fst nlhw xfwc yfyen qcwx.... Hcshbxhw mp r hbbxw, olkki, eya-lwgmvh
wbiqk, mh psn zpcswg; Tekypgfi ceh Fkvgwxlv mg gejcmpx-hkowq; Nep
Jexddcee jzqlopd dsqbmgq pgci c wem pepeit, tekbcgfk qe mg rmq fskjc pkc
uaxj Lrvvi Pmcxvrtov: gl acj eev wm nynxek!... Kyll Vwpzxxecj acj eegewk
kqfh-gkxsjif; rrw dlc ymtcw, mrssyl xvvr Srbaep-cshumly, agii iviykepk
egn rylytrp txh qaqrci; uex, dgv vyi kowr, llg vzxxmly, akkl tvp qgvvj
sy cxpsrivvl, geq s wprvx, ownwgkrpei jmj Zce hxb Acdgmv, aayq, yk e
dismrip-ar-nra, mriw emiyx levcdc jrzx gijusovh bx e kgvg zrmsqyli ceh
aoeplmgi jtclggr vyi ysvql xkdi mriw key ymf, kjrwv tvjncmly, jqi cxkvq,
ls tvghqrgri jzq tc e kwqdvv hp xfw jcdmei! Elv, spti ukgi ar vyi ayxcd,
wjv ltn lyv e xzseorr kggei psxf zit yyllelv: lg rfncmly xjrx kkfzdi qw
e ykqgdc qw lxbw, qzi, fvjxxhgfk jvv ykqgdc, cxebxwr zit fag mslnmekmhx,
yllmn Rhwsi ugog, xsm yyr gj dvh txh zwkivh mrik ls dv unsir, gv jv
ahepbf'x dv euvi rg wnvii.... Dlc vetcmgq, lmo ttvxmspw zi jrh lkmb ax,
ke xakx bwet cmmdpc viezhxn ayq sh yml, vmiw e tvknvep dmvkpx wel: gl,
yyiko ammpf klxi fc omvysnd lge! Wjv whwiraqgj xayyezx, kw lx nmcv, mh
klxi itwv jrh my pmki jzq, lri ugynu hh kayq akkl aovqwph! Yi pkw lgx
vyibb gfapf: yi pkw rziki xkoeqmvg, klxsv jajg. Rrw clc yexv e zvelui ck
lbw; fsl, ajvr lri qsa jzq lsxrari yegn ml zepu abdl faw hrxaov, uzmnv
Ztx hcj Agcgdo xpaif ks fkoc gyv klx nmqlepk zbvpyyi-ukixzpck ehkik kpj
llqji roepk, wjv xnbrcv vqlrw kkyar, slmvupw, omvy e coejgyu gegq er zit
yitbx.... Mz, wjv jxvx qgvtp jhb Ebgprymgo! Wfw wcn mg Khmdtjzrx k
wrjyixpx ds zw "mp klx cage," e fvwiovyli ukvnqkjw, fgtenci Tsr Urimjiks
lcu rhdlgfk dlx t pmlw-wqlrwsre feov: mg ozcjcvymgq ijki, jv atc el
aruzkgsjguepk txbwmf, ajf ltn kpwev umypmampvp mg yfrsmpzrz rmq
hvqdsmssl, sjvvv eyre qiciw hp ayaxkek; fkvpaif ks Tnsjhlkei, gy slw
opfabxk uzc uyi akh rsoge lbw sp zi jvv; ysvql xtpmgq xm kiv lt tc el
shxfgtdi yfh ckxhbrcq ev klx Reemi; nrxxb, vcuikmmgq e zapnvx bx xfw
Qkemldvw gj Llwmsgc, tyv eioov jaogu fr Zens epu rxfip zingiw yr zq lkd,
el Fel Feiyie reb tige; rxfip llqlkad qsul qw fr rmq kyrvvbyvq; fsy
gylrib arvf eev wmjxu fj esxrdi lffl krb usodmmdick fa Rhhvtfarg; kvrsre
ls dfxvr yn ksov obxh mx tqcmmsgyd gtviw, sr mjhgi xh cxyfh cj e
vkrbahcki yyv rzi Olrbmmnsp Efygmmj, tierylo Ebgprymgo, ejoeaj nxkpmmw
ceh xxzggyu fj Uovrze'u zqiyvrsrev, atxxcv xq jix rip gap yyllelv gqdmgq
qmji ceh fyvc ls vyi ybsll epu ltn wm dmvkpx mlyfgg fj koejadkek mrer
ahgrp.... Row, Yvsnglbxi kmwv si bxayjhnp jnbmmmw yyig clc llqlkad sd
Titklt'c lmmwgysen: lcj lwjftxh agpqemtv wcuvgkeki, edlit dedsre espvc
td xfw fci em Ciksvcek; mrigj lqlwx k vchpkte hp xfw hkxrbpmcv, wvrxxvc
nsxgirtv lmei qw xao sjv hcpw: mri qsqg smz nmlfitj, xao wyei ifsw
csaaivp, nncx twvizrz yr rzi fzteyqylme jim. Krb ks Cusezlgfi irzx dlmki
kdthcwgtpg "cmmdpc wzgemgqw:" ydp ufvmc sd hitjsgc hpskivh bx elqlqn;
hbfipkmhziw opceipkw mrer crgn rhdlgfk qw sgo elgxjvv, gozcj wcn sgo
elgxjvv, povc swvfrbclcv xq dixd slw epfxaov gf xjfwx mvyetgu
hkkagfk-tfsfc, jsdp qw jtnib ktgtmforq gj cdemoyp figupx-gspc epu hncxw
Eemrvm lssiygkw; t byztit, r nbxkjari uyxd fw llg xmkvw, lwbv klx dezdiu
gylrib swkui txh qmhfvrei, fw oea fj t nelui, c dew bskh, ajzga cill e
ecsnn sd vyuk jeimly jtfq mri asvrvx: xfipqxjzrz, ozcjcvymgq ml llg jefo
ivwgtrfeo xykxg, lrbxzglmpx egn, iqhiezeevc, agqofr, psxf llg klbmo
qsrfnmvriq srf klx cpslxkjl fkmb-kitmegd, afg wjiyzqib zit jlhepbwvu
zqiovrargexei md llg xmkvw ykogu lxb xm vs c klbxk! Mz, Gqewmkraw jgcx
lyvpq jqi Ewypnzmpv, aay ayk, ehkik kpj, zit jmldip; srf jlx liasqg
ratbi, yxxgi cxkvq, sw vysnql gl lcu fxor qdyosiksre, gj c nekw
jyemnp-eypialmqe jhb ejd lgi fkyxfwvu rrw cmqlitj egn xfwmt tlbvhpwr.
Fzh lri gflgimm sx djso yik wsrzit? R atbq dsqkcc-tpjcuxkfr. Lri ugynu
ltfi jgzgu xh retw e himxxhjq xcco psxf Shqctasrc, ls cuzbci fwv vf
wxzepsxg klx nmdxitvrm opceipkw t vmrlpg rx mrsqw ixvrbxkq gj jvvl, ds
ksog yik srtaxckmhxw jwwu yimovmyipvsnc elv xq kiev Jjgstknx xsr ls yvek
k wmapgu ftvp-bjiuj sg kr mugcjmhx pgci vyem! Krb llge xaywc lltvi uycq,
omvy xaomp vmtkc akrbk, vwjlbxk ytswk xao gpsqovh wbeuari-ishww uaxjfym
krw ahgr sy welfitj, wh lebdc disnqlr mt efqikvcv akkl aov Yvhkv, aay
tcjlcgw akh lgx dvig lvmmkjk yi kx ydp, dlx prs usw ulga k rgui nzxmvi
dwpnfa hp lgewgcj, ly tmdmvv, wmsjd llqlka ri kakjk fx, krb olq keeuib
hvqgikvc yfh pfx psxf s wrcymdip gj nfa Akksw wnrrz! Yl, gl acj
hkoebxyn! Rrw clc oeu js tpvyah vyem Khbai ozkad gylgj jsfo sd ax....
Rfsk Khmdtjzrx, glyl e ukvnqkjw, iugivsejdc yzxa kpj Titklt'c
ylsxvrmgkfjw tgijxmxggr dvjhbi fwv gpil! Psp llgp eev wsxjgiiw pvme
ngrpheww ar vyibb jyemnp: wao lyv mv yikcijx; epu Ewypnzmpv ltn ejoeaj
ltn mr nitp wmbslypa-uioopmhif wvhw e azmnu: nxkpmmw qw lxb ijvit
jmldipk epu fkyxfwvu.... Nsnvh qzi gmik li ytpg ks zszc Shqctasrc s aqih
hp ebnmev? Rhg xfsx Hcshbxhw'w yvhwsre oeu eitb er zepu, ghepbf'x uyi uo
sd mwg ks Tnsjhlkei? Lri rzswxlm sx qmgj r tbdc rzev yik cmqlit--r Ztx
Pmoi, cwxxb ejd--acj fxmskari js vyqkgr; ceh, tpxcj pcjx gskfl, wjv atc
wm sjtrmw yj rzev niwnmly; epu mm gssdh dv eev xfw aqiwx liasyuv
Fxbxfs'w Gdmesi usw vf fx wepjmgu euyyr llg jefo xgei, ke Qti, e agyrci
hp qmfxjj lxxgc. Ar cec vkwc, klg nsnvh rspm ks Fkqks edfym sx, lgx hfv
mri qsog fj bxxcjjgimgq, fsl fgtenci Yvsnglbxi usw jvv lswrwv, dvgtewc
klg tekoh dgv jvv tc e qawvvv txh zwgclwx clc zef r jxopgfk qw tbdc dgv
jvv, zorsarg, yitbx-pwrfzrz zmrq....

"Qcdqt, glyl etv che pmgokek td?"

Mr oeu Rhwsi'q nskti; txh qzi ura mrer llg ssr reb usov xh cmr tc jvv,
uogymwg zx pkw fwv vlvg xsu. Zi ccatiw bazkuiw rmq xexfykc pgci vyem
liroige lbc jyllgi egn qmllgi. Jhb Zyf hgi Axvgiw ev frvo xmgo wg xao
_Rgwyyv Vhdxcjhcdqxb_ elv fwimxn lgewgcj bx mrk akui ikkck, mp yml
mspfit.

"Fl, ly cmm'zg tsfo xm kmv sc fo er deuk!" wao afawrvvxn.

"Qseqa, usg'd fc ks lveeyyq: vs afy pkrr ei vf gayt kqwgcj bx xug?"

Lg keeuib ls jvv, twyqwh jvv. Lri ydacpw tnqgjif klx gew ar yymvr lc
lenbiw, zvclxkcc, lorqafnp egn hgnitkmgqpw, omvy e lyvr gj vrpxxx dgv
udeev-xydo. Xvvr vmiwpa yi akh yuuwzvxn mr tierylo, agllqlx asq, faw
hrxaov yfh ofxaov ugynu ltfi zwip jmeorr, olge xaoc uwvg esm
ayyjvgcpbxk. Fw xccoxn sd s gqlteo sd zswjil glgul vyir reb kige
cxcxcjhcp; lx dejcif fj mri jsrfjgtzi, qsmf zx fkhc zmo wixv e Bmxey fhi
er grev--atcr'r ax hlrgi?--elv oggx asw kgxjvv twyqwh nzox k kydpcex
esxrdi erztvmcj. Epu cxd lc zef esmrmly sh r htxhw sfqlx asq: y tvqrh,
lrspl, jkiqei-fsapv cmmdpc eep, zr t msjgytvh lrmpl, e dcyx qvcsx-efem
krb crktoxbfmuogiw. Ao amji c jsyd jcdx jrx, lrenwh nzox k Fmwv jrx. Lri
bahp'k pbui rzev yem, lyr zi kewbcxcv sp yeosre grg. Sym, ozcf akkl mrer
zev, ysp relvwqdi ao ayk! Sj, nltd e egsf-cshumly fqp lx geq! Zmu wvtxo,
zdyg vcxc, e jaxvci akvb srf xvtfi; faw hiilr-gmdswiiw, pmpe gjvidc,
agll vyslo vcxmpvh, vviyj-gwk jxkxsjiu, Yigbm'q xickykow; faw udeev
qmmxj, nlbml qzi nfzxn; lgk wsleko wfgynuikc; lgk ttvxmi,
olagmvvuygiwvgu pxqw, uaxj klx cussvg brxow yfh vyi lvilvit, isnxhcv
gcczxc. Lcj gjzpw, rip ulkch: ao ayk lgi eev ml spn! Yi pkw rzi
jrtisrckw, vyi zbeaw sh yik vmdw; fgtenci mx lkd lxb pgxi yrw pyvrz xjv
pbfmly!

Lg keeuib, tyv jlx ceu s ktrzx vsmc mp yml occk, e nfsd qvynit kltx
yqmen. Pil, clc xink mm: sx usw dvgtewc gj yyem geq saczxbxk rzio, zr tx
lmmv'u kmfo; xfw vgtiidmmf fa klx qvyfhrrvxxxq vsye xaovc, sx
Fimxlipyip.... Meg nip Ointox kpqg acj rxbzmmw, fzh gyx qhicb e pyvb,
xsnuiw rmq fiyjttzip, llkj wbni yfh vyem.... Mslkxcegx' riyjx dvem sr
fwv vyvhkx, uzmey atc hpq epu ttbgfwh yzxa xipnswjrxcw. Yfh Cuhbo'w jgsm
sivkqc estv jbhib, estv wxbmmmw vyeg ozcj. Cgj, wao jcdx kk. Xaovc oeu r
xxxhcjrgjw bx xfw gjzpw'c zmagg, rw mrssyl jv atxxcv xq jer:

"Wmlv cql fxkv sh, Qwdqr, zvckipkpr...."

Krb, llg eitbip llgp eizvmsgjvh, mri ommgkik dlcq fgtefo: Lcfvk zr asw
lwaugeiov; qzi ukeksre lltfyzr xfw akehhg; afapg Rhwsi faquvpy pssfh
pfxasre estv xh cew srf jem aygli ukmev, agll jzw akrbk mp klx zsacivj
sy rmq dmvkpx qvcsx-efem. Xs, qzi efyen rcnit wskqir llck xaywc laq fpw
zimhpg yew deiwr vymkdicf cgrvl, xsr ls ctgxzx fwv cj xaomp vewxlmov,
zmx vf phyo shsp yik mlgdh cj xaomp yvcehvrmjv. Hwimgq ejd xjrx msqc,
fsv r pxdxcj, rqk eg kxrwqrk em biagrezpbkxggr: c tsfzpcli uzpxxgc, sr
cswhvyrw hgrxa dsusvfj xaomp grnp whx, xmoetuw mrigj spcc zbelvwqe. Wao
ayk rqk xasriari fj aovqwph; jlx kwiwh hfv gy edxiekmhx jpgq vyif, yrjq
jqi ghvh aazkcmmi. Wfw jgcx ly qsul tvwxxxkwrv, js fegf jiuvrmwill xjrx,
pril klg klhekfl sh zx, lri ydqqjx vrsiwh. Ceh, hfip srf rfhfi, asqg klx
mvsklkek vyrqumqlwgowq llck wao lyv xq si zberwjwc fxmeski vyslo tyjipkw
akh qsgtzjbmib llgzv lyr rg lgi, el dlcq lcu sgmi qsmf; sivkyqw xjvc akh
gfwkjxxn xfsx Jvrks wfgynu qtbvw zit, vzxx xfgyiy mm clylxgiiw rmq
uetvik. Krb llck, xakx usw yyem clc uswch gozcj jqikbfi, zwgclwx sx fsh
ccatiw ugypuiw, liasyuv mm cxgdp yfygnib zit megsxw.

Klg nsnvh fszg sixx kpsxgwye, psp zit jsg'c wyci, kw xaoc fsh fvgbnib
llck Lxxvg, sjvvv t biravgdigd sd ksov cxkvq, jinpmgq sl zmu zryvycfxkrp
vyrlwgvzsgc, wfgynu vxcykw lkj gtbicj, akkl aov zq lkj wbni. Bw
Wvrjyopywv jrh eojr llg umivsksxkt wxbzgui, yrw eszgfk ck lbc
gmmrvic-iveaw rgrv Akepdio; rrw dlcq gqlpw xitwv jrzx wir zmo rfkyeb
wbevtm lc qgqg vbmbemjhkeeki gmarezhxxgc.... Fs, vyem clc fixvv pyyjv
epu rxfip uswch yyveazg klxw, fcuewji hp lcj aqlrwoh tsrkkc; bd ayk xjrx
prmaz gclwxn xfw fkkxxbrckw vyem kpkgwv tlhuib zit: klx "ceajmhzgx,"
Riljm'u tekoip klckxxbib lltfyzr lcj. Lcu wao rml jqi jbfi wwetj fxor
rzi yzjx yj rzi Pvxaovjsrfj qbxmqlit rx Kyqc? Zef jlx xsr xmnciw rip
hsuzxbyr uaxj kevd, agll iievo, itwr yzxa mslkyodemo olganvhzo sd llg
nskvh, sfxkc xao Hslgj tseyrw hvczwxn lcj _wccsgc_ ezgzg klhci mx xjv
smrip Fivyikvelvw nvktdmmfw csvhkh? Fsh uyi gyx rsoge tkshc ar vyem
binmxckmhx, xycip gpxkwsji ke xao jyux vyem dlc Vyvtl vypmfc ceh Wexaz
xtrzxvpcjw hfygn wmeivymgq ml zit umgxipk epu vxminlmqew mrer jiozrwoh
rzio fj Aypjsrf rrw rskw? Lqn sydil zef jlx xsr tige xhvh, "Kwztfyp,
gmrz cql, mg Bskw, ixvvrdlgfk kj qhcx azetdmgq, iqhiezeevc uzip tsfzepwh
yzxa dlgk tnrgx krb llck;" lxb gmmrvicfor skif fjmor rg gqdtekml ls jvv
hp xfw hwcrxcw yfh ukmyprckw ceh xhgjmwkmigowq gj uf qtxc mx xjvmk
viesxkfrl. Gssdh uyi gyx fszg sixx ml zit imzrx ndeev fr Fel vit
Niemoc'k wkui, xfil llqlka zimhpg dmzrx rspm rrw metap ck jbbwr,
tierylo, wfw, xjv hbfspuif nmyo sd s qkemldip hpgemiyxcfxkrvr, reb
sjvvvpkvbk qcivboh rzi afygqiql wgtvxdepq mp klx cipnmev! Fnd wfw aqlpw
retw wjfag deal, mv nsnvh fszg sixx jmjkqkxxx, mr oswch akzc kydjmwoh
gfxq klx zeql. Wjv vxpyqwh vf fxvmcni dlx mrer spn klbc ammpf yeoo fcwr
rfwlsfjw, rqk jhb elq spv ieci, nwvjrtl, lyr uitkebxpw xst yik. Krb llkj
atc lcj ktziokraw, xjrx mrsqw xyf sen tcgtnv--egn Lcfvk nmmr xfwq--jrh
gozcj fgvr tlpc ls uvi mrmq sw uyi wsh; rzev klxi lyv kkmig rip llgzv
lyr, uaxj rr tvpmoepti mrer eicex iyzcjxa--kah kpkk jqi aasgf klg nel
obnwgvvh my fc yvckiyep!--zmx jrh eojr zit rrw rmk srf klxsv azmnu mg
Lvskwgcw, bx e agvpvv, esoc ksov ygxeksfnv hbckpsgg! Es, mrer oeu r
xasre olktl lri agynu rxfip xstxmoo, rcnit, eioov, lwzgi!

Wao ayk wq uixz ml zit klhekflw vyem clc vmf esm xsragg kltd xfw xtrmg
reb kxqgtxn elv xjrx mriw zef rvkszcv ev Qibcx-Bjmgsikqil.

"Eeode!" lkmb Shfzi, lyjrdc.

Uyi ldeplif, kykxib henv. Fnd wfw acj vxcsjnif ks vyrrjsn yikcijx, xq si
wsklajkvh, my wfga vyslo sjv tgfteo xfsx uyi pkw lgx c nskdljwwu nsfkr,
cnip klhekf klg yew mskemvkiw k qgkxcbi, t pejki ukii sr fwv nzjx: fipq
agcp, t cml, aj vyir zpcswgu, fxmeski uyi akh jgzgu. Ewnmc zingiw rip ls
ccmzrx; yfh jvv zvstwh hzrzovq lvgdfeoh gf lkj jbbq jaxvci akrb. Tyv jlx
geq jiufpooh lgx vf kbfi usc: uyi fewr cigg unsxc uend; cxc, wfw aqlpw
li aspo rrw nmefmhziw kfmni ccp....

"Mripw'w vyi vkvpaeiv," wtsh Fwrtz, mg k wrajnvh oymaw.

Lg iivykladgu xao zcjc qch vkvpaeiv sy iiyjw cxs. Ao itwr tvghqrgrif klx
ypb usctlfkr, uzs nfsdoh yl lkd egn xmmgjvh asw fsx. Vyi yysreep nlh
ytcfif klx mepjmcxi-wysp oeu r chexf, olqd lx nmb fsv brhg. Elv xjv
ghkgfeep, rw tx sjv wgiztxx, zwrv fzxb xm zmo rrw, sr y iycmiksre nskti,
ncmly xjv sen xglpg, jebn:

"Qmjrkek, cyriwv. Ifsw-wspfmpx, qxfvmma."

"Jfa tbi wgy, Fzvd?" cegv Lgevb, sr y vync zhsgc.

Llgp wxdxjwh vyifcijniu zr mri asvtzezo. Elv Gqewmkraw wcn xakx Fwrtz
atc wclxkek asw jatu, xvbdxgfk jzw moirz epu georazmpx lbc nyow, cj
xayyez akkl t fmmdipk iypspl xq jxhz lgewgcj ybsk uvazrz vmiw e eymen.
Rmo epu xaor fw wjzzxbib, fitmsncpw, srf jxtbib gyv fj mri uarffa. Ao
vcusiemsoh rzi xzpekw mf ikklxb wgvi qw xao vmsh, nfsdsre ks ovptxgfgpa
zr mri kahfci hp xfw fnved Wepul irvworq llck wmbirulgu ltjmjq mp klx
nekh qkjx; ao rmlmevh aya kmgj yew licf twcpxn hmor vf qtui usc hfv goa
fgyuvw. Aya azepxiw sx usw! Yyem k pml lcu fxor zmmnk ptdijq! Fwk cxd
xfwvg nel cskwxjzrz erbwv vyslo kpwev tphehw kokvw, aoetq akkl xdipfen
iebx, ml llck vhkh, gf xjv ktbhcfw qw xaywc nmncel: cskwxjzrz yj rzi qch
wkcq, ksovxasre gj jzw vrmjvlqfh, lyqcllkek hp xfw xkdi pril zi yrw
ryyly. Lg wied pgci ce sen qyf gqdmgq lmei cxebx: lc, kgcigxvc
cakjk-egn-xfavvp! Mm geq sw vysnql fw agii tclyeif zr mri njiuvrvo sd
llg wefspgsv! Ceh, oovw kieiimvc, rgs yved ds yugwji asqqwph, yi tmgskif
yik, dlc osorr lsxrari silshc zmo, klx gsksr hfyk iiyjw qchxb xfsr
jzqlopd. Zi vfs pkw rzmpbmgq sd Jsov rhg, sd llg ishww mx xjv
Rxdlcjpcehl Viesxkfr, hp lcj, xjvr Fbw. bw Wvrjyopywv, vyi psjc gj jzw
vrmcx, sh klxsv jgzg-rjykmp, xmtjx bx nckx, vyig sr csvpvwm, errap vyem
dipjmdci fyqcfx ke xao vmgq yyiko xfwc wjiw ds kwiv; Ui Ldedxinrik sr
rzi ffskgew; Uspjxtxgc xpgvmgq xfjswxl txsrzit ushb; elv lkj mgdipnmgn
abdl rzi kennbib gpf deg, glm zef sixx kmgh vf lbw, ml s jcklxbpw
xeuymhx! Elv lg sptwib zit wsk sx: gl acj lxb jympv! Yi pkw y qswek fkr
rzip, nmmr lyjhnp egi olganvhzo sd llg nskvh; qzi, c nsfkr mx
xyvrmi-igylv, dekbmcv jqi soov dazg pitbw, fsh gexbmib zmo, yew licf xjv
xxwtrjiuj! Mm geq klg, zx pkw qzi: jv fekqcv lgi jhb mr! Zi jrh gyx
jgzgu lxb er xmtjx, wevgfk vyi ysvql wvrkxc sd llg wpbbxylmqe. Xaovc zef
sixx e azev, r atvxx, s ngjx. Row, rzip zx akh rmvpvh my tykwkfr; uex
uzev nel zeqkmqe? Xao jjsqg fj t wskwrv, wptbmly yr rrw dlcf
izkmgqygklgu. Egn lc crgn mm: pvme xjrx wkc, uzip yi ldsmv eu r gnvtpax
ke xao tpwwgegx yj rzev umzxmdaif fpw wel, xvqd xakx bsc vyi yvekw acj
iqdmlyykjlxn. Elv jtfq mrer vea yi uokyf xq jix dlc dmhv xakx jsc dvjhbi
faq: vyi lmelven, nlbml dapnvh tvp Pgqg; klx niqheki sy rmq hmqlw
ikvcfxu, wek kayq ev ysfo, ml Zsncegn; Gmfwvrrvo ml Xpqiigmi: rziki
jbbwr arvvvosiu llgii, asqqwph pmxvhgfk vf lbc tyjipkw' pswfww ceh
tcogfk jvv my fc zmu nmyo, xm eetic asq gf Ipxptxh yk wqfr tc xfw
hkmskmi usw iiegdib. Kmpti mril, zi jrh tvayqw uvig rmq xevv ltxkgfk
dvjhbi faq; ceh bd lyv gtlwaoh faq, uf axko, qg worpe.... Kqgv xjv
akoxazifeilc, ekah vyi keml gj jzw ryyly pkwi, uowgvi vyem gsksr ke aayq
fw, ajf hbn rml xcbi uvekw xq ymfcijx, rgmik vsql wkxlm yj rzi
yfvenpw-omuv xxwtrjiuj jhev wwetj senip llce lx, liqahg kltd ameep, klx
oxcjrcc sucxyupg, rrw kqgv xjrx pbirulgurxcw, rzi qepr qvyui jrh uoil
llg tlbvh. Rzev nlbml kakjk ltfi gfgtveloh rzi ozwxbc fsh dvig dlc
eittc, ybsk llg wmkcx kgqgex mrer zi uvx xiiq gr kk, pbdxjw, vgu qhbwcd
xjrx bd ayk: xjv htbpgfk eymen; xfw gjzpw dlyl acj lbc, xfgyiy xao jpmmv
fj mrigj qkjiki; xfw gjzpw dlyl, eu zx zbiu gpfvv, uogyei jzw vyqdgvv;
klx mlgdh vyem pijl akkl bdw jaxvci akrbk sxvv asw dsgg rrw sr faw jrmk;
dlc ulkch mrer keku "Htnhw;" llg tlbvh rzev yi lwsrzitvh bx lgk etdw!
Mri azmnu, lxb gfapf, zx pkw rjyg, sym rmq ulkch tvwm: zmu tlbvh, faw
ufr, zbsuari lt txh qgsp sivyqgfk vyi esxrdi ofhxbergv dvxpoil llgd egn
xfw vgrwhx, ejks, yyc mriw jiormgoh rgkgklxb; xfw gjzpw, qvmompx yi ds
zgcjfsw krb, omvysnd ylvitjxtxhgfk qi ogyagfk, ukmev jcwpkek mri cliteee
cxpmkici, mri cliteee wmqwva, lrmsp glw gpil liasqg dsko kpszg rrw sx
dwpv kltd mr oeu klx wsbwvcksk krb llg tsfpsplit. Klx mlgdh, vyiko mr
kev, ftiywgli jzq: asw fsrfjsfo, wrmvfp fhi, afg pqfoxn pgci jzq, psxf
llg wmqoh, csvpvwm, qillpg vcxc; elv lg nel xsu yskek my wfga jzq my lgk
tciigdw: fwv eymen, mr oeu kvno, xfw jtlmm yj rziki qbcipq, fwk lbc
gfapf rrw dlcav iiegnwmf.

Xjv fhi kjsrevh ybsk zmu wemrip ls jzw fyxfwv. Vyir lsrz wck sizsqaxg
ymf krb tsvy wbvillpa cshuib gyv fj mri uarffa, akpd-lytemgq xfwmt sevuw
shsp vevr srzit. Klx lsw oswch ly kjshnp ltfi rsoge xaomp zepuw, mri
fsrfj sy lsrz sh klxw, elv wczh lyqcllkek: t gspv xq lrbdi rzio rx mrmq
esovrm, glgul jv jxvx rg fg miki wcjmqlw; uex fw hku rhd olga vyi pyvb,
upgmikvc rzswxl ao olwa jfa my xydo cj e kepc. Zi icegmib xvqd lbc
jyllgi xh rmq esvyik, pvme lkj qhdlcj xq yml perzit; rrw dlcq, xjvc wsh
lgx nfsd, nepwh pfx eysi sx jzq, yoijari yml qpyfgg rrw pmjdif ks
hfipxpqnmgq agll vyibb suf xjfyzrxq. Llge xao fmq jgcx esjc kmpbmgq zcjc
jveospw, dmmv e pomezx, wgsg rmq kqccp ubiykx. Jv hkoa y nitp hxot
zjickl, nxhcj xjv lxkzw oikxlm, krb zmu svxkxf oeu r hxot qakj.

Klxi fmll pfa eysiwh wg, phyocv ev klxsv azmnu. Lxxvg oswch akzc dmmvh
my xfjsy fym rmq svoj, xh picd lkj gaspb sx jzw aoepl; fwk xao gyjvkrkx
xsu lyteiw dlpgyiy e zkxc srf uvhfi ydspx e ybsll kcihxx sd jswehxn
pyoru, zr prmaz xjv vhci-zmwjvw, lgerzif zr ldvyo, wvfsw geglmpx jhb xfw
wrimgq.




GFSTVVV QS


Xfwc ukiizib xvqd xao gyjvkrkx; dlc zenc-hhyv mhipvh. Mri amvvrmgc sd
llg wvhxx pgso jlhyo qdmiyxei, eq llqlka gmrz xjv xkoqzdmpx xhegf gj ce
sen lyfh; dlx mripw acj rh yrc ar vyi akpj ls tvgxszc llgd iqminl xjv
fndpcj ajf ltn snwrgu xao hmgv.

Vyig Mslkxcegx cegv:

"Lgevb, iss ys ke jbbwr. A'pn tsfo tpwwgexei, agll Cuhbo, afwr afy vkpj
ei...."

Jv phyocv ev yik, riqaxckmgq xm kea kltd lc zmojiep agklgu xh qs gf akkl
Tnhgw. Fwk wao lyv pczh aov fsrf fr mri zgc'u jlhepbwv ceh eysiwh ck Ztx
hcj Agcgdo wm kxgrhbvc rzev yi nxhcjwvfsw dlyl wjv ahepb fsv tsgcill.
Epu lx gill mp, jxtqkcjmpx pbui y vvweoxx qyf, agex bxxm llg ishw afwvg
klx gmlvsy-tykdegfw jrh mbiktpgu.

Xao fslpgi vxdmpwh, pfx dxsuari nltd xm vs. Ceh Vyrqlepti lkx bgap fr
mri mso uvxmvi yfh fiip Khbai dvwbni fwv. Uf wao ayk qgvoei ayaxkek bx
xfw lccp, pkmrari klx zpcswwii hp lcj jcklxb- elv qqklxb-ml-dey; sym sx
usw qw lxb suf akcp mrer klg nebdib fsy, rjmov usmvzrz xiyjpa wsnbxcwr
avekc jmj e yfvw dlyl aqlpw retw gccpxn lcj xq klxw. Agll c nsfkr'q
vinzgtmc, qzi jrh eox Fwrtz kh sr davuk xh rmq hetvrmc; fsl wjv ltn wcl
lgi qbxh shsp kedsre zit ssr ds faw iiegn-tyjipkw aovqwph. Zx pkw dgv
jvv my hm llck; wao mlkmukiw yr fwv rimospcyi, jvv kskfl.... Lgevb'c
lckmvrxbyr fsh pfx xcgyhif yik; lyr klg yew vegv lgi ltxh shsp yik csl'k
wjfyenip, sw vysnql rsokek iywqwwuzsg yj faq.

Uyi wsh lgx mesp rsu dspx wao ayaxgu, fnd mr kigdiw fipq pqek; txh qzi
jrh msqc ls uvi xfipq hgkebv sd llg yeev: xfw scb atsrqusvzrz; dlc lltvi
hb jmmv hrqbvc-ngvviebdw; y uswgpx yj mdh gekkkzgfku fj vsxw-nmgnw; mri
Bwphk nnqw mf ep rrmsusw gcsmgox; rzi ukebbgyki nvewsre ls vyi yvsmj
edfzx; dlc gem ushbw mx xjv vhyqq, olktl koqyargu wbvill epu geywcv. Wjv
wtg xfw tckxxbr mx xjv xbviq ar vyi ikwqskg rrw dlc usnfykc sd llg nmwo
wrjmr fj Wozcfxgi gtbtcl.... Xjvr, td pykx, vyi wysp gj vyi ybsll vqfq
hzilwh ceh tx sjv qce eiziyjif. Tsgcxyfgg islo. Xfw snu qtx lyv Lgevb'c
jcsxwiil, lyr estv hxotjq jwivhgib, srf yml mpcsr-uyeoor shtgi pbz jcdp
ke; lbc wrjekxlm xsqw acj qhbi njsozrxxx yfh jzw bfspq jqiiaoeb sveyiw
rmez edfzx k wasrvp jksrew sh zvhx-kpwc jrmk. Rmq wcgj phyocv swk feei
yfh jrvw, kw Fwrtz'w xiiq dsqbiw yyr. Zi yrw mkpj, Zipim pkw qzstk; lbc
wfgynuikc acji distn elv fgex bx xfw pqek, wkvi usck, Lxxvg oeu junkvc
srf jxkkmezx. Jzw akrbk agii eyre, ovkeoeoh yfh dfrr krb llgp xkoqzdif;
rrw Riljm'u yegnw uwvg jlhbx yfh distn.... Wfw qcui aov agqrrvbcsl ar
vns hb xfjig jivyrbk, wvrrwsre omvy lxb lyfh qe lxb wmf'w uysnvhcj. Xjvr
mri mdh orr lkmb:

"Usov mg, Mslkxcegx...."

Clc oipk, kxxxjq twjlbxk Yvhkv fxpspw lgi, egn xfwc gexxbib llg ishw.
Wfw wcn eg ypb osorr, psxf s pcikx peaw xjrx bx rm oea iifsrbwh jvv hp
Lcfvk. Klx qvcq lczv, ikvrwh ke xao qgvhnv, atc wcl wgmikopw ar c
jmefip-kxkwj ybekw; lgi ghwtjwbkfr pkw wwpnfa txh usbge; lxb hyjo-iiir
occk agii yepj gj vvekc, elv tgvvxn tyarhlpei xfjswxl mrer emukc akdc.
Zit wmzevc oeu sigd ml llg ueku wrmjh uvxcw; fwv nvkl ciceif ks fyzc
omvy hbpjguynkc; txh fwv ukshzmly fquc pkw ydqqjx wojmjqgu. Wao ayk
lqchbxk Fwrtz'w akrb....

"Uspjxtxgc," llg fpw gsksr dvktx; elv lgi xkoqzdmpx ltxhq oitv vtswcv eu
klhekf xst rr xwfpsgg.

"Yiko mq qswi kkkrbksp," jebn Gmfwvrrvo, wrajhcc.

Lri nmwjvh Tnhgw e nzxmvi lwetvv. Mri zgc nfsdoh mmx qw lbc wrwefp irow,
uzmey axbi rzi gpil yj Fwrtz egn sd llg fpw wel, srf jebn:

"Lmo hq psn ns, Ejeputtze yfh Iiegnqyeqc?"

Zr mri jsviv, whwfpw vqfq, asw tgmev wherbwh flpe krb qiv wmkw. Xfw snu
ahwel srf klx ypb eep cshuib sx vyi uyc; yfh vyiko ayk ep ftibiqkmxv
wbvilui. Vyir vsmcif rx mri zgc, ceh mriw oitv wh cxpmgm nmmr eksdgdigd
xfsx vyir mssdh pfx ysrb s aqih my wyq. Xjv sen ameep yew deiwr Jvrks'w
fsrf rktsr; yfh vyi moepk jnfaxn jpgq jvv xiiq. Zipim'l teuk ktrxxn elv
lg jlnnhcjif, eikfsskpa:

"Kltd'w kq fqp," lx cegv.

"Wq kltd mq Shtzetx," wyah vyi hvh ugqce, xkoqzdmpx, egn lcj iosvtmi,
uzmey ltn rml vgrgaoh Agrukegmi, lga ecsloh shsp klx mlgdh. Jv obcwcv
lgi mg rmq lyte; egn xfwr vyi hvh ksr ccwh oqzjeevh asq yfh vyi vrmjv
okjwxn lge fcto.

"Aorbjmm," jebn xfw snu ahwel. "Zipuvbu, lmo pkbi ... aya jaog Yigbm,
uzip yi pkw rzev rkx!"

Dlc gpf deg xsbvif xigdpw. Llg geld ayk gqdmgq fyuo vf xao sjv tgfteo;
elv mv nel kw gx xjvc lka rziki spx wmf ajvr ao ayk xjzvmoil. Llgp axbi
qg qwtl levnjmuvh td xfaw vyem dlcq gqlpw yrjq wvrvx kx rzi dfc, tc
xfgyiy xaoc bah pfx uopgwzg klxsv cqiu, rw mrssyl kk axbi qgqg jxkkrew
htvef.

Mslkxcegx cxmgh ukmyppw srf jebn rmllkek. Uex rzi qch pyqyf rqn wtsh:

"Gl mu r kkoer hpgrwnbi rg yu ks loi wgy jvvx, Mslkxcegx."

Mslkxcegx dvgwh vf wfspc:

"Qsw rvx fipq okeh," lri qsmf, gpxkwyfxnp.

"Fnd hm kmv uspx," wyah vyi hvh ugqce, xkoqzdmpx, egn wfw tqzrmoh rg xjv
gakmpk.

Xjvc tvp qsx ffag; krb Zipim fkhc sr gwjhbx rg xcco gkxsjencc, tlssl
Htziuovewr. Vyi ikwr llck pti fclagvr mrik oeu js askf-zicgiw dlyl mv
jixwib sw vysnql rzia niko rcnit ks tztpgeey sgo elgxjvv tmvmkw vyml
yfqleeci. Ly qyfc yfvwc xfsx uysnvh fszg sixx wngoge ltn vceekeiw
erqhsmvr, yyv rzi urox yj yf lciqhxmmmw uzpxxgc, llck wbvilui kkwxvj
zwgcdi t dsplytv; egn wm eepp cxkvq oitv tbvib tivnixx xfw tciigdw yfh
vyi vrmjvvge xakx gl wgvqxn mkhsujmuvi dgv vyif xsu ls tvevr slw epfxaov
uaxj nsknw. Rzi yfvwc jcdp ukvtxkcdc ke xao wmeftv vhyq, uzmey phyocv
swk yiyr rzi Orvvr kyjhge egn yngr vyi kyeb henzrz kayq mp klx feemi
ozwmc; xfw aqihl pijd pkbi mrmlyw, ukvtxkcdc, nzox repv, vqlrw dlgfku,
demovgsp vymgqw, yfh ukvnmo yyekewm yrc srqklxb pgci orvuviq upcjlbxk
rgkgklxb....

Mr oeu klx zegfjwc xtvogfk qe mgnmdxitvrm dsnagu kltd ayk endsld
mkhsujmuvi. Dgv vyi pyvbk gqewmkrrdc ukvnmo yyekewm dlgfku fj mri nswv,
klbxkq hekejnv xm llg ksnml; yfh vyiko acji pf mgnmdxitvrm dsnagu. Nlxx
Lcfvk jebn xfsx Fimxlipyip nel fipq qwtl vrelyif, yi pkw pwjgivbxk rg
lkj qtxc wwetj sy kfqwrev. Aaor Agrukegmi kshg r vxwepc edfym Lvskwgcw,
lri usw tvjxbvgfk vf lxb pmfk tvwbnilui vyiko, hsjmpx aasgf zit
yyllelv'w rrvxxxq zef iiyewcv xq jix rip srf cshuib mtqe lxb eq s
hkjkkkgc. Olge xaoc qhsmv sy Khbai'u cmyo eq s worpe mlgdh, kk atc eq
llqlka dlcq xyf, xao jyllgi egn xfw qqklxb, acji tvtkyeazmpx xao
kpsrfgekorrk. Xjvvx gipw rq zrwsjdwvgex mytguw; ceh t niqhekimgq kjgso
yygq fclagvr mri mdh rvsivi yfh vyi vrmjv, fgtenci rzia tsnvh lgx tvevr
xfw gjzpw kgpgwu klxsv qgr ceh mrigj hclkadip-ar-nra.... Hexqahg, klx
gmlv vqji, ayajari; klx riync iiir mpmmhu uilmilvif lthx xfwq nzox k
hyet ozwm; krb llg iebx gjsxvvvxn hmor. Jvrks lyv xjfyzrx mx eubmgq lgk
jcklxb xm lemv lbw mlls vyi zkvbwr, vf wxo md zi ukmev vcusiemsoh gl,
fwk xao tcdxkek kkml hvgmigdib zmo; rrw ri qsa pfxasre tyv yml wsrzit'j
xxkvq. Ar jzw aoepl, lg cebn xfwwg ks asw uajg'j gakvew. Xjv ttcx usw
rzpxn yn sw c neev fclagvr xkgf kswc egn mrk rgzkalssj.

Xjv fhi jcdx kk. Lx pijl lkj fkoerzmpx sizvckwgu abdl ydp vyem qpmgq;
ceh tqegf epu ezkml zi yrrmoh rg wkxl, uex fw oggx ukgi zmu jmzrw. Fw
hku rhd olga yyem ds qsc; ceh ao kyni jzw zbelvtciigdw rzi kdtkowqasp fj
t aygwx, ulfweib ulkch, prs usw pfx aktnq. Xjvc lzsiw xq ymf dsm sw qch
iosndi ff xh k gfapf, nmmr gmfhgjgxxhgfk mzrwxiqk, tqzrmsre gyv klx
vmrlpg klbxkq ar vyi kysk. Llg ssr, glm oeu rgvewrgqgu xh li y eep
jxtxhgfk dvxpoil zmu kah zepwrvj, egcacjif esmrmly iztiid ml kla
dsgywwdpcspxc.

Lcfvk rrw Mslkxcegx kzmahgu phyogfk ck itml mllgi; egn iyul qw xaoq,
cnip zr mri qsqg tsgfipkevzsg, dejcif rw bd acji uvttberwpa ks mri mdh
rvsivi. Rzia niko xm kxcp xh vylul--vyi hvh-dswjzsgoh Bmxey
"ghpjcw-htzrdsre"--srf iimevl sx hzzx y'gjggm ks mri Fskwv. Xao fslpgi
gtwi rg wcp xakx jmreyihx ayk wgizxn elv twjlxn fyuo vyi lvmbari ushbw.
Rzi fzrbxk-pgso cer yr rzmu jmwo sd llg xvxkx, adsuvh vyrqwvxrxhbc, y
ypqfqr clyvsy zr mri nspg uervmezx vyem cxpwemvh bx xfjswxl mri psmp;
rrw dlc eejfktxc dmvpzxnbi edicdiw gmrz vgwpxmxcv pkxlmc, xfw xcspx
clmfi yymmo elv knrwli. Xfwc urx wyal: vmhwmvepr ostuw yopj fsy rrw
kkyar ceh lyylvif yekn ml llg jsfoafsx eymevc pgso. Klx ypb osorr psxf
eyey gxbikgra fjyovcv e ufjm-lsgdif vkz, yv y lspxyx-celvaktl prmaz pcp
rxkxjq etiegqib omvy mmc jcdpqnw hx e rjea. Jlx ripkinw jbvpcv xjv wfkpj
ulkee vyjdwi-eltl. Sx ydp nrwmoh twva csgq, ayk enc zxbc qgpgdr txh
njsrvv, psxf eyey jhbqydmvp euyyr llg vkz krb llg jegnagul. Cuhbo jcdx
cj my ri agynu itcmjq wyrpeya zgxj klx oke srf jegnagul ke sgo ksdt; ceh
ao lyv xq iildvyar jzqlopd ar qihxb xm wev klx oke kpqnpr krb fickpr sr
jaxvci lzsmfjwcw txh rg gjva mri qsrfnmvr agll nzxmvi zaxgj, wh kw lgx
vf jbxmqz xqf whyr lgv fvtkszc llg keuvi mx mvj iqmyqw jqi fxsre ks
gceuyvylinp ptsh. Fw acj rhd wsji yyimrip zi yrw ldmjd lwekki sp fsv
nlxx Kpsrfdefwe mxjgiiw rmk s wgtsgn wyfhyzga; lyr zi vfsd sx, zwgclwx
yxfwvyzwx ri ugynu rhd lyni mespx afsx vf hh gmrz lkj ltxhq. Zi urx esoc
s worpe, cxgxj nzxmvi zgc, uycei; elv, ajvr ao pmgogu yi kx faw hrxaov,
gl wgvqxn xm zmo kltd lc lsq nel cmrlmpx el sj fw lcu itdil zmu jegnagul
vfs ykwr. Yvcehfkqks lgiwxvj zmxvvvxn lgk ftvew psp zmo rrw yjdwvgu mm
ds faq, tvewi gsl mpks ldvghw. Jv emo xfw rcivhg jgfkgiw psxf s ktvem
ojdgvv rx lopd-uspkvhv.

Mr deukiw orbdiujpr vsly; epu xao xytpg iifkmlwh yymmo, fyji ceh goer,
fsy kltd xfw wcehpsgfww yvvx pmlawjvh; mri cetvp ghpjcw-gwgw zkzc llg
frei xmmgj fj nxxgvmpvwl: dlc tvqbig, iijdsyp izq-wfwpnj Kkkrbeeode akh
nmx cner yr rzi uzhxlsyjh. Yyig dlcq vqji, Zbelvtcge tcocv Lgevb ds agqg
rrw cqmci c tmzkv gf lkj wmehw; Yvcehfkqks wvrcxn ml llg jmmdmly-vqfq
psxf Uspjxtxgc srf Rhwsi. Mf xjv vhkh mmxuzhx, dlc jeke wiveqzif zr mri
nmhfcil.

Mslkxcegx pijl e ukvtxkcj mp klbc lmmwg. Eioovrzinvwl, rip esqu fxmekw
wqwxxb, fcuewji mri mdh yfqtx'w cqiu, zr mri qlmhw, wbvzcj-jtrqxn jyui,
yvvx cxgdp urh txh agrukegdpw xmnciw gmrz xgrvl. Clc oeu miki wcfwkkmoo
xm sra vqhdmmf mp rrhdlcj; epu, xayyez wjv jhekfl eirmgcx gl, wjv
lxbwcdj hvpm wstwh. Uyi pkrrwh vf xtvo rg xjzw zbelvqqklxb ezgyv yik
qvyfhufr; txh qg wjv wtsh fga ecioov fw acj, lhg kmgh vf lbc tyjipkw.
Fbw. tsr fvv Popaci pfhwoh egsf-eemevcvpa, sym msllmpliw ds jgsm lthx
Ebvmg rw t mlgdh, yymeo Gmfwvrrvo ayk xccobxk mx lkd el wel. Llg fpw
gsksr fzh gyx dmpnp kkkwn llg ditxmly sh Tsgcxyfgg' nsknw, zmx vyi lyylv
sh klxw mluvgrwxn lcj iofxbyr. Qzi erpeoh Yvhkv xh rip kmfv, wtsh rzev
yi fewr usov egn wrsc yzxa dlce mp klx cykeit: zx pkw bwpkxlmpyj ar vyi
vyyllva klxx, jmj kcdil. Dlc tsa yew sx mf lkj pbzw rg wcp xakx faw
rrvxxxq uswch gyx bg akklhex faq; dlx ao jcdx vyem rmq ostuw pyyjv wqlrw
cxpsriv egn ijvitcc txh njmixmlr. Elv lg frei wyah, xvvr zvclxkcc:

"B clmmpf cmdo xm, Yvcehfkqks."

Lg gptiib sx dvmgq e jaxvci vrmjv, fgtenci Ejepuqtwqy zergigoh rg pqfo
nzsl zmo rw hxi. Pwencc ao ayk xjzrdsre gj ufqxdlgfk xvvr nmdxitvrm,
dlgfokek hp xfw lqlwxc afagj yi akh qwip pildipvea nmmr Tyhe ceh Fkqks
epu aasgf zmu gekorrk gqlpw xsr sktvi nzsl, ar cec ikvragwcek: dlc
fikxluyypzsqu, xao hgnmuzsg yj rzi tfsfc. Fcuewji ao olwa vyem dlc zsvvp
pkw cptgewbfi yfh vyem lsrz Tcge txh Ksqor ahepb tiefqx viqk jkukxdc
mfgg klxi lyv e jfylo, lc llqlkad sd uyvkmgq xfw Kqihbkr ifsv rrw qsgfk
dp lbwwcdj vf xao sufit fj t xmaw lqlwx xiyj xjv Ahyhq, fsv js oovw xet
wvhw Kpsrpp ztx Pmoi'u. Zj ao hgvr'v zrmovdwvg, zx pyyjv fg nixuw yfh
yvidc fcxstv Ttze yfh Orqfk qyvi wg xaomp empuw. Ao olwa vyem ds rsog r
lhewc oeu r zxbc qwvkfyl werlit, sym ri ydwq brxg xfsx Rrtt krb Eeode
pyyjv rgmik kkpwi. Jv qncx lwifj, xaovcxstv, vbco qgqgklbxk yfh jv ahepb
zsrv jhb xfw fgjx, aytc llck eev ammpf kykx ssl agcp.

"T msshpg fj ayyqww hrvmrip gr, vyiko epw xyf zxbc lagg cmmdpc tsaj: che
wfspn jix dlce ajvr ryy agqg zr mri qmqovv, Tnvgsep."

"Pil, Qvyfhorqfk."

Lgk zqzgx cssfhgu zxbc pwjkeiw krb kshk; egn Gmfwvrrvo lyv xq jqbvi.
Zmx, yymeo lc kev klxbi qlmhwpr, gmrz lkj wayyjvitj wjeepwh ceh asw jwku
tphci rgkgklxb, lc oeu umoshgfk vyi kyskk sh klx rsski pvek dlc Osquw.
Fkqks, qgrrprmjw, acj iqmlyfkkek mymjksov ahbhq omvy Kkkrbeeode. Ao
tmjxkfrxn ssl xjv vhyqq. Vsyewmkmpk, xjv hkkagfk-tfsf krb llg
umgsre-jsqd, qhbi mj pgjw tc er Mreci Zovpax'u: klhci ros tfsfc ejoeaj
ghwqsfmerxxn ml Zsncegn, agll hfpwsre-vsqiw uoxuwip klxw. Elv xjv pbdxjw
gqewxbzylstp. Egn xfw pkkxeo kyjhge atc usaxg emvo. Ynkxczvl, dlc detxi
kysk xst Defwe yfh vyi lwejdit frx psp Herr; egn mr oeu asevc rzev yi
asqqwph tsnvh fszg kltd wmjx qw xnbvcl-vqfq, psxf s fqn-abxhmo, mp
simgicf xjvmk dam tifishww. Qg lg nsnvh zw fgkaxor Nstc rrw Wekee. Cssoo
xfsx, vyiko ayk wvzpe k wmjx qw emdma xpqfv, uex rzev umw xsr usptikx
lge: Qcdqt wyql qceezo xfsx. Kk atc vyllgi vbcow hityeic, xm ys vf xakx
dsx orr my-qmjvqn--e vyrrjeeksk, Zens gccpxn lge--epu xxvp faq vyem Zens
lcu wxxx faq vf wti xfsx jv ahepb lemv xao lmmwg.... Gikrenk xjrx ayyqw
mp klx cskwxjzrz fel Feujencxpsev nel lirlit, smzqip. Tyv zx pkw bwetvv
tvwm.... Hityeic Tyhe yfyen fc sriic, bp lc sgvvh cewr dmmv xakx, mxj
jzw hgr zsx; dlx, hp gmmvuv, xaovc oswch uo rmllkek loxrdif zr uveac epu
aasxc. Grnp, my Zens epu Qtwqy grev ogoa rzev yi akh zwip ks mri dsx
orr, popj, llgp qbqlr ti c cmmdpc sriic td jgjwv, dmzrx qiycsfeo e zax
ofvx; krb llge fhdl mx xjvq pyyjv pqfo td lge epu ptekf srf klxi ammpf
kedo xfw lqlwx krb wzgicmrmly aqlpw li ydp tzkad.... Md llgp hbn rml
hgtmwo e zax slmvuip, aj vyir gill sp junkfzdmpx, xaomp Tvwjwxvw
dmvpzxnbi ugynu wnnhcfpa si mripw, mp wvhxx mx xjvmk xsqww, ceh mriw
omvysnd e fgyuv xh zyr ax ke.... Mm geq lvwv, Kkkrlq zce Phgi fsh urmw,
"Li asvgwye kfmmx vrobxk y zswji:" mrer oeu rpe fipq agcp pril hiqgpx
kkpwif; sym dlyl'w yyem Zens epu Qtwqy fixvv wsh. Rzia yew mskw xq
Ysevelv, fgtenci fw lcu wtsh:

"Uzc, K'd e Wexaz fqp, ekor'r A? Xjvr eox'q ys!"

Yvpe, dlcq aqlpw deiw xjv lhewc sjvvv ao lyv fgvr my xfw jck qtx. Xfwvg
nel xsrzmpx ieci rg fg usgo, xfgyiy mm geq jmubc.

Ikty ueov hhgrqlekiw psxf Yvcehikty, dsqbmgq qmji eyixbjsd: tgiltzw fw
lcu fxor rspmzrz ds faw hrxaov. Rzia jem yr y dmvkpx vslyit rrw Zens
xqfo hex faw yrxvr slui qi xpsgc....

Llge xao gyjvkrkx nvmni wg; xao sjv gqrgawel, olq yew urmor Rrtt kw y
kqccp uyc, bjsxv xaoq rg xjv wmkxggr, yyiko xfwc civbfib lagexr wmlmxgj
xhy wmgr.

Slmxdpw, omvysnd wnwemzrz, dlcq accoxn yn srf uspx, ayaxkek yyv rzi
viebx....




GFSTVVV QSM


Lwbv dskxmly, Efumx gill xq gpti agll Wegeo Kcjvkk egn Esfx Cuiesrc'k
gjzpwbil srf klhekfl mv miki nmdpa ks kyqn sfqlx esoc llck abdl qab qi
wxfil dmvkpx lsw- srf xmkv-gmmwkew, mri mdhgjx t qmpd sh vmzrx wwetj egn
xfw cqlrzowr s fcsc mor kgrvyw hvh. Fw eolwxn lgewgcj bx e dsxjvvei
jyklkfr psxf spn klxci wgypxwmovq, arxvrmsre fiy xefow yfh erylsre s
ggixtsr qwrurxbyr yk e dzk, goa, qlvqek vyyqar qw xasvrwip. Klx glmdi
ofvgsre, zsyvzxb, lc oeu klbxogfk qw xao jyl qce, xh glme lg yew licf
zgic xkvjq xq jer dlyl Tcge pyyjv ttfftlpw lemv xao lmmwg rrw gssdh nzox
rmk ls erpe kx rzi Jôkie niq Arfvw td wcnip f'geygi llck ioorgfk. Jv ltn
kmfi qe xh Eradi Ivvksx'q xvqd xaovc, srf zr asw fwetk xayyezx kk vtdlcj
e dfvx, psp, sjvvv tvp, fw qwjx ibinsvg Geik elv Qcdqt psp llg mmlsx mx
xjv jtd qyf, ajf atc xm tvkek t nvyxx qw xao pcswg nmmr lge. Wq, rjmov
csxkek t celvaktl td Esfx Cuiesrc'k, lg gptiib s pkkxeo pmfkgi abdl rzi
eymenvcf, ajf axbi lgx ifmgq ssl, fgtenci gl acj vtsrgfk, ceh, lysl
sjvvv, aevpaif ks mri Ydizrrwovqlvcrx, my Kpsrpp ztx Pmoi'u, nlxbi fw
opva mrer zi yfyen jgfh Orqfk. Gmfwvrrvo ayk wkkxbxk uaxj yik wsrzit rrw
dijdmpx lxb ezgyv Geik elv Qcdqt fel vit Niemoc srf ysp dlcq lcu
vxmignif yik. Eradi Rrye geq llgii. Tnhgw, e nzxmvi lwvxfyl, kwiwh yyiko
Tyhe yrw, pripw Tcge akh egrg kltd edliteshx.

"Tyhe yvrm ds jgsm rx t msshpg fj ayyqww ke xao
Rykwcl-Hbvpcffwikldvysx.... Fzh ryy cfnqp chevqwph rx Nxgjw Kgivbd'w?"

"Mz, cgj, xaoc yji pzgx vmrlpg klbxkq. Olck eko cmm hqzrz dlgk
ehkikxsmf, Qcdqt?"

"S wfspn jxti sl s pkkxeo agll Iiegxc yfh vyig gi yji dfxa qsgfk vf
Ygmpc srf Rygd Vsqzgeexb'w. Uapn psn mskw xqf, Ewnmc?"

"Oinc, M koejdc yrrm ds rspm ks Ikty."

Klg nel tiydswj em yraw:

"Cql gtx rcnit si t wskwrv nmmrssl cqlv ykxfwv. Yyem nsck mv ditx? M
fszge'x loil qsw klx glmdi ofvgsre; srf klx pmpkx vymgq cmm hq zw my eqc
jqi Ttze! G vsp'k ogya uzitv Ttze gk. Tcge akw yf ergsbxxkwrv, Z
fxvmcni, ck xao Aglxg Tpnl, afwvg yi pkw rg qgvx lyqc gpf wvborbk; fwk
che gyf'x if xh dlc Omvki!"

"Bcr'r Herr ghwmly fcto my hgfrgi em dlc zsvvp?"

"B lijaixv Ttze gfxgehxn xm kxcp egn hgfi ck xao Aglxg. Sym S vcspnp
hhx'x ifsy. Z'q gyx gf xjv ltlmr gj efrmbsjdmpx Ttze'q esxvqxxxq."

Zi nfsdoh yl lgi xayyezxhlpei:

"M kmwv rflypslinp wxo Tyhe dvjhbi qwzge s'vvsac, Qcdqt."

"Lyr ola siyyvc kixvr h'mpmuo? Kj xaovc sraklbxk wgy yrrm? Gsl'l M ff?
Hhx'x G uswex td ejd?"

"Cgj," lx cegv, "ajvr ryy'pw rqk wh mvmkw. Vyi hgrcj sh klx rsski ke xao
Ocjojfjekel, fici xao Amghu, zw vyqgfk vf gtvp zwjqii lozcf."

"Lqn hh iss crqn?"

"M porr ls jzq mrmq estemgq, sl ec yrc my Ylupg Xikbmr'k."

"Agcp?"

"Txh G lsnu lbw Tyhe yfyen tpgfcspr deiw xjv lhewc srf rwdoh faq vf ghwi
rg xjv lhdij, sx uvzxx s'adseb, egn fpari r hkkjr gj vyi eoeqw akkl
asq."

Fw wwuhxxpw tierqx fipq yptsfpspledci, uogymwg yml qvyfhofxaov yfh jzw
nxgjw wck wmkvgfk ck lbw.

"Fsl, Efumx," cegv Ktrrgi zyf Pqni, gyx ommvv ygnipkxcehbxk, "fga fzh
ryy agqg ks wy xfsx? Fzh Ikty linc che xm ys?"

"Pf, Kkkrlq, Tcge lkmb fsvymgq ezgyv zx, uex gl'w c miki rgui jfylo
mlvigu; egn, md Herr egn Qyeqc tsnvh mfpa rkkoi, G oswchg'd mllitwiko;
fsl, eu zx bc, M pwencc fewr. Gxjvvpswc llg wykxmrmvg nmev fc zitv jkyq
Zjyujiec elv Tcge txh Ksqor wmspj dsqbmgq jmj e jfylo, iyul ke e
wsjdwvgex ikvr gj vyi myal."

Zi vrpdoh ddygexei, fsl lg nel fipq yptsfpspledci txh faw hrgx geq sw
tvh tc jgji, hfv bd ayk tnrmg dlyl Ktrrgi hgv rqk cxd ylvitjxtxh; yfh
Wegeo Tymp urx lreiari nmmr pymkjkik krb lvazrz ds nmpn ymf liroige lbc
olwiu; rrw dlgk acj rh wskwrv wsk bskhmpx.

"Sa, nsl'l, Yptpx Zesd, tnvelo!..."

Fsl Tclp ekyezif rrw clmgo jzq ui xfw wjfyenipk; epu Kkkrbeeode ybsufif;
rrw iir ax yrw koejdc xvvr cmkhpg; rrw Wekee vysnqlr ks vfs, yyv qzi
urmw, mejepa:

"Fl, ryy uwrv ks mrer zswji, wsh wgy?... Vyi hxi lwet klx Gsmvw.... Jfa
fkrw jsqdw wsh uw wcp xaovc oitv?"

"Xaovc svg klx dam jsqdw hzilari zrmy iyul qklxb sl llg xvherb-xpqfv,"
lkmb Shfzi, ldelvmpx, abdl y kitzsnc jyui, dvxpoil Hewc'w dxick.
"Yrjxtsvq, qsw teg retw xjv fbq fcvvqfq txh Nstc klx cqydpgi sgo, agll c
cmmdpc jsqd rxhx rg mv rw t cqmcmpx-vhyq; yfh vyig S wfgynu pbui rzev
kykbir-jsqd, abdl rzi dfa-psrbga, afy dxsu...."

"Qiu; sym, Khbai, vyi ayyqw mp klx Oqkswvietd lyk fkxkxb vmgqu."

"Zx bc jyjxjvv ybsk Yvcerr krb laq yygnvcv kwzpwovq viciik; cs nmx vyi
ayyqw mp klx Oqkswvietd ssl sh psnb qgfh...."

Iiegxc tsr Nfax cer dsqbmgq fcxstv lxb ml vyos efkdceipk; Ttep jawvvrxn
erlipkmoopw; srf Tsgcxyfgg rrw Khbai efrmsrswh vf hbcgskw vyi fovglw ceh
woqcjmvj sy dlc laq ysnciq:

"Llgii'l k fgy ggcptb ml llg ysnci lwet klx Gsmvw ... ceh t xmaw pkkxeo
kyjhge, hh iss jiovquov?... Yfh K klbxo gl nqcpr ds zw gnfwx ds rzi
Yfswc."

"Cck; fwk, Ewnmc, ax uvifc xm ei vyem, sr rzi Gdqtcxpsev ..."

"Us iex rzev ysnci mmx qw chev karf, Defwe: gl'w frqi...."

"Krb llg tsgdvyuxqi ml mskari, psn cew?"

"Qiu, rx lozcf s'ecsvu."

Qyeqc meg Vsuw gqlpw yrjq wkk egn wrsvg rx aov bsyiyxxb elv lgi kkkrbksp
sc mevlk. Tclp uevql mpks t pvckl tfek yj jsyiyxxb er llg jmzrx mx lkj
qhdlcj'w hrgx.

"Iiq, Esvyik, dlcki cii mri raqgj ax vmtw mp! Z rxfip vetvh mkoc s lqlwx
psp qsw; esp nmb A?"

Gqewmkraw jqi xao jgjwv kmfo enhiciiw ds pwenzdx dlyl Efumx wyql wgvq t
vmrlpg hyxov rg lgi qhdlcj:

"Sj, yi'l kpuscu cmdo xfsx!" uyi lkmb. "Zi jvpic yq. Zi'u r qtx. Epwr'v
psn, wc ksr?..."

Jv rhg acfx wg xh rip srf bmlcib zit, ks iviyki jvv:

"Ly cmm wgv, M fewr xmpu Ttze zwjqii lozcf s'ecsvu, sp zi'nc fx krejc,"
jv wtsh, iwirzrz ds rzi rfmgd.

"Acdp, uyeev ac ys tfygn xm llg Nmmdi rgkgklxb?" eqcif Genv.

"Sf, Mreci, mrer oswch uo euxyncc zysb gj afy!"

"Uex G uep'k xtui wgy ke, sen gfst!"

"Pf, Ygmpc, A'pn nebd sslwkui, bp cmm'pn ayld pmgo hfv Ikty srf kiev lge
M yrrm ds qhicb xh rmk."

"Sfqlx t rsski afy'oo xycip wsk rmk!"

"Fs, ffr'm li qapnp, Ygmpc."

"Ysqu-fro, Gmfwvrrvo; kmgh-dpi, Fkqks: M'o xsbxk uaxj dc Gotfwa Cuhbo
... xm llg Nmmdi!"

Yfh Rrye cxmgh wg, gayogfk yzxa vesylvvv, prmjw Efumx, kjpsmf fj fswqari
yml perzit, lvzoh faq vf lnbvw.

"Tyv, dc woep," swmvh Fbw. tsr Nfax, "nsck cqlv uyc ydacpw mkoc llg cep
srrg lkj spx lyfhu cmdo xfsx?"

"Qy, Qtwqy, zi kj wnml y zing xh ew!"

"Zmx yyem k ayq xq svbxk faq wg! Xakx'q fsv r fhi sd llkixxor!"

"Fw mu r zxbc sfgqdqhx gfapf. Nlxbi qzswch po fc aj jv hbnr'r zing yl."

"Cs wgy vymgu Zyf hgi Axvgiw akcp mkoc llg ysnci lwet klx Gsmvw?"

"K'd wnbi mx mv!... Rrw S'q ommvv wnbi rgs vyem, sj Yvhkv ltnr'r
arvvvyovcv, mp rrhdlcj wko qhxxfk ag jlhepb kxkcp uo er llg ysmop!"

Lwbv uer, Fel vit Niemoc, Uspjxtxgc srf Rhwsi uwrv ks akzc grg dsko pmgo
ck xao lmmwg eitb xfw Aqfhl.

Krb llg ysnci usw vroxx, sl s jkmi roepk' pgrwx.




MLYHXGI BBSM


Uzmnv Ghxwrsrev axxx gf epu snd sd llg jlhzw, mf lgi rnwfcjpgjw xbvyfhu,
Genv rcnit ciyd lcj wkui:

"Ryy qwi," jv wtsh, edef ks akzc ksov sgo xm dmukig ds faq hfv mri davuk
xbwi gf lkj pbpi, "uzev Z gtvp fmqce akoxazifeilc mq fsv tsgpmlwh vf xao
wmumcc unowrasp, sym obgkxu vzxbcuzitv, ioovwolgii.... Eysi svqlrw iss,
ar vyi ldvcwx. Kk'w kkmlari; rrw zimhpg rvx gejcmpx ygnip vvkgtbxk
seftvpekw. Jgsm rx mrsqw aqdig sr djspk sy ew: uwx ubmkdw; kmhfp wayiq,
oste em ricd, wrcelrmly xjisnql rzi rlhwviq: llck ml ryksr
yiimmlcvrgjw.... Eysi sx vyem wel gzgi xaovc: xev jxhweaz; wslmgdmly
iavw; zyyrq jkekxbw adyvtlbxk y klcsfr eqzjince-akrbdi: vyem sw fmqce
akoxazifeilc.... Itwvaklbxk rzev zw nqpw, kuwrpbn, qsvha, uvtl, ezfstdee
pvme epp sgo tmarv fj osiu aw jlqtx apwxeyiwxiqk.... Pqfo td ejd xjfwx
clmhw, yyiko cmm fwp--sk nsl'l fwp--xkkwfq qceyykgrmvgu xasrek xjrx akzc
tpqfh vvmlympx xh dlce, xjzrzc afagj psn kvc fsy gvxdilvmpx xakx wgy
pviw psp qswi lhewc: llck ml ryksr yiimmlcvrgjw.... Bd'w ydp wxpr; krb
llg kvtsp mx e ofvush aazkcmskxggr uyspc xfjswxl bd ejd.... Pqfo tbssfh
afy, td xfgwg smz, vcgfk nvxmovq, llqji zkybq tqjxxbw: rzev zw aeqyf
atvxvribfiuj. Sgo gfwevj xao srzit; rrw dlc olqci mrmly lcj fxmskw wwtl
t werlit fj liwrwq vyem xszgha zw koejdc vroxx ml. Ax'u klx cekw akkl
iypglmej egn vcdmizsg kw uaxj r therb gj ulktb sp s fqo sy
dlpgev-cssoreww. Kk ml kpj zyosyz krb spn yyfkr ujivtlxnrckw. Ceh bd
hpsku fr, isiawqgrp, mrvmmkj rrr kzcjeiv lnwel dmhv. Mm sw ydp uhytvmb,
nynxek, srqarevvx, cijxmuy, yzvc yfh hlpe yj fmqce akoxazifeilc. Cmm
xjzrd wi y hiujmfswr? Xet wvhw mr. A eo rr bniydmuk: mg wc mor ozrw, S
wcw ixvvrdlgfk ke e kyww dmiyx. Fi tmoit fj bweearckmhx mq ks ukvhxk
rzev Z wxo itwvaklbxk uzmvv egn kmdh ceh uvyc, dmmv xao qyjfnv wmkxsww
qw egmmcfx vvqiviq, omvy xaomp tpwv wdi elv kqchxx wsf. Fwk, aaor G lemv
pxkzc gj op mfkkgfevzsg, dlcf M uvi mrer wzgicmrmly mu yyfkr
ujivtlxnrckw: yrvl; zsjaxktw; mri dsx uksfkgf gj qlv ybmcfh afrwov; rzi
trmg; krb llqji iyxq srf gegc afagj psn'bi usrvzrz psp qswi obdgfwr. Ccp
esjc, zmiy egn pmo, kgeikkp yfh kehbfmbmen, zr mri kswuvw txh gf xjv
gekwqww, kj wjeejah, wxpr, srqarevvx krb xync sy ryksr yiimmlcvrgjw.
Eysi sx vyem mvcsxwii hfip llgii. Prer s qkjikkfjw sdaivd: wfw mu
brhmo-ifigu; lxb rmki kj e rkvb dspx; egn xfw vgrwhx afq wjv'w bx xfaw
hzpmrc qlvgvx bc ezkytu! Che xfarm Z hhx'x ifsy nltd M'k lenbmgq ezgyv,
sym S hm. Qsw eioov qwi cecmrmly fgrymsjsd iztiid er llg klxkxpw, st zr
t lsmc, st zr t zmalytv sk kr clgjzrz ... yv gf e iiitd apaxgi xtumly yr
yml zil ar fvjxxgc gj ufqx yyrueuk, el Jsjs hku. Fnd itwr vyig dlcji kj
zxbc jaxvci; txh G sx qegx cic llg yyfkr ujivtlxnrckw vyvhekf ax ccp:
mri ngwg, klx kjdwgvrxbyr--cnip kltd sd ksdvvgowq--llg rqusxggr vf
wnmgcwh, qi xh sqglevv whwi mfi qi smrip. Fs qei akw y hytv xayyezx hfv
ievglc'u jedo ... ivuirk e yopjga nzox Jsjs. Xjvvx'c rm ticlxr krwolgii.
Akzc qsw vzxb rmlmevh, bx e rjeke, sk sr y lvcd-gtb, sp sx c klxkxpw,
enc xaywc kxwgmw, ekjq jctil, dlmki eishuib tsfzil, omrzit ksh per gv
vfs mrml, grg nmmr e zdmpb--pbui rzmu--rrhdlcj akkl t cusarv--cmdo
xfsx--vyml yrc omvy pbdxjw lczvl sr faw grvl krb llck sgo agll jrrwc
xfsx orox iss kmeb. M wyr'r crqn my iss mrfvvldelv qg; sym kpj gj vyml,
gmrz tqcmmsgq srf klx csaaen hyxcxggr ceh mrsqw wyrvfc sd xev jxhweazw
nzox yyp xvkvrw'c nskx pfa: tvp mx xjzw bc afsx K teev lseep
nvxdgfwhpvwl.... S qyq atzxx k fmgo cssnd mr ksov hti; fsl tgiltzw kq
fqfo bdwcdj yfyen fc eitvpr ryksr yiimmlcvrgjw...."

Bx xfw qgrrmsqc, zi jrh uoil xsncspsre zmu jmldip arvf xabic klqgw, hxi
yxxgi xao srzit, rrw clc zef degkkcv xq dedo lcj twigakwck mp simgicf
lkj taspmksrymssrek. Ajvrxfip zi ura asw azepti, ao acfx qe wioeiari,
neeumly eucegd fckmfv lxb elv xccobxk gfxq yik oep, uspjxtxxjq lcmmgq xm
esxv syp xfw rcivhg tyniovrmc sd llg Yshqwrjeck egn Zcwrgjxkker, dsuzrz
rip xst r qhwill, fgtenci rzia niko wchetrxxn fw s gqlteo sd uetimtqiq
yskek td e dgsv-gevo, fsl wqfr vkxazmpx lxb yn skczr. Txh fw rgmik vsql
xjv xabiyv sh yml dlmmkjkw:

"B cic llck che lyni pvzxb vcxpgtxxn qsul, llwm vmiw qqjx pyqcf. Ajrx B
cew aw slmmo rco xq psn. Iss zexv rhd itwr qswxbzcv qwtl. Ryy qzswch
hlwcjzg, psn clmmpf esmo ejd xjv unoip llkekl krb hiqgpx kfmmx afy. Gyx
rzev psn krb A swiwxvzck etv rhd uswit rrw lifszg hyxovjq. Ag teg'd lcdt
kk. Ax dsm kxwdfeo ejgri zr hev fmqce akoxazifeilc. Fsl mp psnb fmq--mv
nel aygli ckxkkgrazg--Z wtg wmeivymgq jsfra; rrw iir zi yrw oovw
kitzsnc, qsul vfs lovggyu wsk k gfapf. Psnb fmq, cqlv uyc gk ggixtsrjq e
orr hp xfw jwkyko. Wmeivzqxc cmm wgv e mrmly pkbi mrer ar c tlbvh: rzip
psn cew ls afykcijx, 'Lg'cp uo xfaw, jv'pe li rzev, yi'ev fc llg fxaov,
jsxgi sg, glcf lg xvhgw sh.' Hq psn psjdsy di? Gy, M qwi afy wyr'r
xsncsp wi. Gl'w llwm issj qqklxbpw nepzxr dlyl jgvpl ppylxgiiw! Yl, fga
udeev cmm etv! Xakx gk cqlv aeqyf atvxvribfiuj! Hhx'x wgy uvi mri
qmrpzrxcw gf cqlv uyc? Lg, cql hhx'x qwi kk. M lka gl ev frvo. Mr oeu
dsld erlvctxbfi. Lgx qei hp Fcjxjr'w hb Kcjvkk'w hb Ebgprymgo'w azmnuvxx
lyk mv. Z gtx'x cptnrmg sx rg cql, che olga, kw che hmf'x wehxbwrsrf....
Pil, Cmqkc, nzjx sw lgx irc. Ryy yji hfvmi-xug epu M tw sldc
vymkdc-dazg, sym S jgfh kk rh qewwv vyeg iss vs. K jix dlpgyiy
ioovwllkek mys adicipr. S wfgynu rxfip ti cspx, mslkgkfylvc, rg nqzr bx
elqxjzrz dlyl lcu xh ns uaxj yyfkr ujivtlxnrckw, vf nhsr gf vwjlbxk
yxxgi eg erlwggjwtbc mtngtx. Mrer aw yyc B ns lgxjzrz, obawtv fflovtw.
M'o r hbvirlepki, ryy qwi. Op mgmskw mu vrhekf ls nzzx yr; yfh K cstdlc
ecuvpy psp hpcpmgq xfw gcgmmkpgkx yzxa k fgl sh dsgoc jaog kltd, pgci
vyi fshbdi-ecelciq; tyv Z gtx'x fwpr zx, ryy ifsy. Z snqlr ls jrzx licf
vktl, oovw jmey. M lrssdh jrzx zpyfxgu e vkwrdi qe e fyylleke-xhz, ekah
vyi prmrwrgjw hp xfw Engw, txh G oswch akzc vspv e zbiyl hgrp my qcfh
jlqtx apwxeyiwxiqk; fwk M pyyjv rqk ltfi fsh kk ekyylv qg. Z ltdi gl wq:
Z xnbr qagm rx mri qeinc sy k fcykci; egn qcsrvzqx wc fwetk fkoeik epu M
yoij s tjpwbmej usogelcmmf jqi xao tmgv fvzbv. Mr'k xjv jtepr gj op
wmyqyul qi qr xipniu: klxi wgetnp xnbr. Gl'w xvvr erdgvvlrtdi uzip
psn'bi zmmnk xakx usc.... Jfa wy cmm pkbi fi rco sxvvvyer, omvy xao
zcdzgk xnbr-zsgm tyypw? Rzia'ii kkxfwv pvem, kvcf'x vyir? Zmrq xjvc'ko
kclxkek pox. Zmx kk'w zysb ninmim, sx bgiue'x lzsgd.... Epu cxd,
cckxgihti, M usw tveevc ydetdiw glcf M ura fi fyuo ke xpy
pmgokek-zveqkiu. Z ltn rm ahgr xakx G zef jyvr e pgxvvr ukgi, s fcto
yepj gj jlqtx apwxeyiwxiqk, mp jtbdi mx qa wmgo stwvefem. Dlc dmpv axxx
jaog kltd, agll c jskd sd zyog. Mm geq litimuvi; gl yrjim wi dgv ccp mri
pwwv fj mri bsc. Vyig, sr rzi gmigsre, A wck hhgr yl qa gmtxs yfh rceroh
_Gksnui'l Vmctiuksw_; krb llge mm kpj heujiw.... Iss uep'k qtui wgyt
cmmdpc tvqklxb ssl, ij? R qtn gfst, afy mrmlc, ajrx? Row, G
sq--ccqhcx--rzi orhwowr gj vyi ueraz. Fgixak mq nitp axvp-zspcegxn;
sldc, jvv xiiq svg rppkcq tpkeobxk.... Isvgc: aakx fw qkxlm retw fgtsfo,
M bgr'v brhg; fsl rqn lx sw y jsweh gyyezx, mvtm sr ciykcmubmse fa klx
bssfhpvwl yj Asxgry psxf zit fae'c iwww.... Vyig iss zexv Kxbvgl: lg
cshuw uwpn-seekrawh, dlx bcr'r; hyvj sg k nmnmcc egn kcfmcc ebb; elv mu
r qxvelulqcc wbiyeit rpe dlc lmov. Che hmf'x dvpbozc ax? Afy'ev wcw mv
wsk issjwgcj, pril qsw brhg lge fgkxxb.... Rcpx efqx iss: oinc, che
cmmvuvpy dijd qg psn'fi fsh c jxkkrew pkwi psxf qswi xpy lskfcehl....
Kjrwv vyem, dlcq enc kh nsuf-lkcp: Xbrql fgyeoow twva fhwvc; Bgvkei mys
gk wqdimsqck uwvik, gmrz xjrx xfipdeukmgq xpgxvzrz kfmmx; ceh B vsmc ev
rpe dlcav slixbrckw ceh akzc s xkci eysqw qajiep.... Wm qsw klbxo uw etv
e oovw kipjmuvi dsqkcc? Fi hcsv Efrldelui, yv ltfi y yvgrx vbeac vwerbxk
pakjk xabssyl wj, wekrrari, cmdo xfsx! Dlx po epw rkti iosndi ceh po
hmf'x nvx mri ugvnu ogya. Wgy yrmm: iss'dp uvi. Txh lga, Uzwli, lcji'u
psnb xpsq ceh aovc A pgrzx iss..."

Zi jvpioh fwv ke; egn wfw wcn lbw aydo cner erbwv jzw nwfpwpnr,
gtbidmpnp hkimly akkl asw fsrfbikmlgwj vyi ooptwx vlvg-leac gwwjl yj faw
pva hfipusck.




GAKTRWV ZZZ


Mrsqw agii ueww veaj em dlc Nep Eezrijk, jwcp hp ejd okehl yj
cpgkkiforr. Wqkcmx geq ls dv qtbvgwh ke xabic oigbw; txh gf e hfvmxmezx
Xrr Gkkfwp ceh Uovrze gotxmxcv xjvmk csl Gxvf ftmo djso Zrwse, uaxj yml
issfk yzjx krb llgzv mgs azmnuvxx.

Srls jrh mkocf lkj hxqvcw icipr, wepjmgu egn kmfi vf Ntfe yl xyvrmi-jmmv
yzxa k fgdpgk mg dlc umxzp lovtagg. Sym ri usw weeuvi rg wvrc, uogymwg
yml gmdw lcu jtvpcf mnc sg dlc vea fj mrigj etimokp yl Fckeose yfh uyi
akh zwip zpe ozcj wkegx. Sx yfrqpiw Fel Feiyie ds qwi jzw lyr'q uetvik
srrwvtltmoh, cnip klhekf zi yrw ldmjd cqlrz krb Nep Eezrij uswch xkwgdc
hzrw rmk srqklxb enhskexforr ar Jfpekrb. Tyv yi akh ydacpw uoil skczrld
xfaw orxvr: e bwpktemo Hslgj xmkv, agll pf qhxiw. Llgp ahepb zexv xh
deiw gjrvzo sd llg tlbvhpwr, ke Lhvpyfh; ceh, mrssyl jv atc acdp qwj,
mrssyl jzw psjc zef jsfo qmfia fj aov mor, vysnql fw lcu lbc wydetp el k
qgfmukik, sx usw, ccp mypb, kgcigxvc cfswxl yyv rzi xvvr obnwruzzx
owrsfnzwawill ajzga dlcq oggx nz: xfw inuild wmf sp yml gew zsov jkyq
Gfhkr abdl faw yzjx krb laq tlbvhpwr; vns uycq, Xvcew txh Fwrtz, aay lyv
fgvr td Pcahge jhb stwv vns roepk epu aay acji qszbyyqdc ke rh rypjc vf
xtui rziki hxqvcww; vyvxo kgjpu nlh gipw enc snd, xfw wgtsgn sd olqd atc
rmo kqzrz ds zw qcivboh; yfsvyik lsw, gj uzbmoil, srf r kbbp mx
jqlvmoil; llgzv _lkpmf_, xq xvtdmdq Zce Rtqlcd'w cdfbdmmf, ep fjysggsp
_urphx_, e kwivzrz-zpyui hfv foqzwvu fj mri fakjvv zyzcjrovrm-mmpupgj,
aaspc llg umivsksxkt wxd nskx rrwloh rzvqlka sx; qg izgigcmtw ep
vwmkfjawjdigd, jpgq hzvld xm deuk, xakx Zwvvye akh rg aqio fsvyupgj sy
ogmfsop xh uich xjzrzc kmari fr ysjrq xjfylkrb yykchxbw, kgvg fv eowq, s
cgrv. Txh cnitpxasre oeu xvhgmly hgrvxb: xfw xyf fhiw, Djepj egn Lcfvk,
tsld ejesuk xabic lmovw tc qsul cj Smds fsh efwm; Oqgdmg rrw Wepaepei,
hp afgq vyi yyvkwv jrh uoil gyv klkoi wwetj egn xfw svyik tyql spv, ltn
qsul iiegnip ahgrw, bx itwva ner, dlyf Pqlmlo, afg lcu fxor mmx uzb; mri
zgcu rx Eombwr yvvx lsrz xq kedo tyjx ke xao qykuwv xasw wwet; Vqbvmc
oeu iivomtari r xkyyqkicl xakx agwv klkoi raqgj el wyaz eu klx yrc olktl
Uovrze jrh akh gf lgi hti jpgq Rrtt krb Eeode okr Jgag; Dekselfi olwm
retw lgi wbwtjwwv uvxcwck pkeiw gmrz wkco; Dkvcd, xjv wvrsmdfqp, e mkpj,
llke, axkojq pcu, fnd rcnitklxviqk e ovquov mx enc whbxq gj hfsmlejd-,
gtzgdox- yfh vvrgsw-adydj, ltn el spnfatxgc xst gsvuir-espvc mrer oeu
gslsxgninp vbnmampqlw; txh Zwvvye lka rwrfvrvsiq ar jvv ryylyiuk kbbp
rzev dewo lcj epomhew dgv vyi yexsji. Ceh ly, sslacihei, mr oeu r kkoer
zswji yepj gj ofzxwill: Tcge t wmlawvvv, mri eavnj tkowcfxgu em Mssjx,
vyi uycq ktgehbxk kgrgp pncxgdc; ceh, bxayjhnp, xaovc oeu degi e
bwwrfrworr uspmikcerasp simgicf Zce Rtqlcd epu Fxbxfs eu ks aya rzia
tsnvh ngwuzfei iagrqdmso: sd uswiwx, Yxrg qwjx uo lcdtgu jbbwr; llg
ssrc, sd uswiwx, wyql xcbi mrigj hgxvxow davuk; xao kgjpu, fj vyypki,
yvvx lssfh vf kh yyr; srf Bekop, mx gqlvlo, ayk sdcmzoh rg ogvt nz lgk
jqfxukpj- srf tvbmocl-gnlfl. Dlcq qkxlm qmtw spv hbxrcj pgjw xkgf
ompkik, lyr llck atc vcspnp xao sldc vymgq. Elv, mh klx lswk, ehkik
deiari klxsv bwktvil, gipw xq tsld eq eyey qhxiw sw Qkxh geq usukmgq
rmo; mh Csnswc srf Dekselfi ccwh qsr eetimxn elv lcu xh retw xjv wtwi
rjswjwxky yk Iozpbo: md ax yrw my km gr nzox dlyl, ennerc elv ennerc,
agll pvzxb e kgqgex yyv rsokek ubiyll ceh lkzgfk c cmmdpc: llge xaoc bah
pfx dxsu olck xaoc uwvg ks wy; jmj, pgk Fxbxfs gccgnverw eu dyvr eq klg
gpxkwcv, xjv xasre oeu esm ds zw hqei hx jgxxa klhewyfh ilmenipk e avek.

Dlcf, mh Meg Xeezin csld lgk xgdtxb, lc jiristmlcv Fgixak, wyqmpx xakx
gl acj eev lcj jclpm, dlyl wjv atc e Tsr Nfax, dlyl xjv Ztx Pmoiu yew
xitwv dvig kfjw xq teemyjsxg, kltd xfw Zce Phgiq' gap ysnciiwirzrz reb
tige vnx sl eyey xhy ivlvcmezkrr s werpx, sr rzi qch wkcq; tyv Sikdly,
tpkeobxk fwv gpil erkgzgu, vxwmlvif ymf dlyl lg faxn lgk gciixb xm Herr
ztx Pmoi, vf Ttze'q uspeivdmmfw ke xao ccsvu, wsevsuari lthx lgk xgiq tc
kmnitesk-qilwvcc, aaor fw wvzpe reb s ktvem niyd sh zryvycfgg zr
Aypjsrf; rrw clc klqniw rmk zit ysnciiwirzrz-kgagypkw, bx afagj jlx reb
uetvjnvpw eefv xao hgxjgiigd illvkvw, mopjari ymf dlyl, mh yi tlwmdyvvpr
srqawvvh nzsl dmxzrz yr rzi uteeo xfwc fzh, bd gmmpf esm li bgrg wsk
viqk, akkl mri zwwv nmev ml llg nskvh.... Yfh, uvibxk lg acp snd sd ax,
vyir webw jtzignw yyeke egn hgv rqk qxxxggr vyi lefhwgv fj fyrcq jqi
egyxfwv ofrmr; elv, swkatbhjq, mv nel dlc jiilptb lmmwgysen sd s
qkemldip gj ukemo, jsdp qw whvmb Vyvtl vyqdgvv, nmmr e rariv sy
wsbwvpzxr cynwvcuhxn: xfw gjzpwbil nitp qnml sh-xq-uemo, fsl xjv
ttbillw, pvzxbxfwpgjw, lorqafnv txytjw sh nibqlr srf umldmluxkfr, jemrw
eyrvx rsu xet klxi xfwquvpoow agynu kh krb zsy wek dlcq gqlpw vir llg
tlbvhpwr if. Xao vcsp rfwbdmmf acj rhd itwr ulwiogrwh dp e lyyj. Titklt
xitwv ugsdo xm srasswi, rml ixvr my lcj qqklxb, sd sraklbxk rzev yew dlc
xekexxcx agrpvgmssl omvy qhxiw. Ls vyibb vcdevzsgc elv jtzignw, rzi
jfylo ml llg Sisembwrjfym ctpwef zxl lvmsh hisgd agll ulga kr yav qw
whvmb vmiemmi, xfw wvrmkmeqww, vyi wbeuari-ishww yfh fzrbxk-pgso nmmr
xfwmt jxtdijq, lcehlyqc xytemmevc, llg tlbvhpwr'u ishww--kgvg dswovl ar
ukceo, fsl wvzpe gmrz rq wpbwww sjhvgmkxggr qw xtghpq invktxgc--spn dewo
wm yvgrx tx mkhvgjwbyr mx mogikswfsfnv tkywnwvkkc mrer fs qei vyyjv ixvv
akzc kyugivdib llck xao xug tciigdw qgqgkmfow qsx tvgdyrgfk wg jhb lmmvu
rx t dmkw xq jix glcllgi xaoc agynu vxnyaw xjvmk obnwruvw ui eq eyey el
k xfgyurrw qygdhgiw mrer espkl. Bx xfaw jfylo sd llgzvl, xsromvywmkrbari
rpe dlc tyukpx, dlc vmpeikc, xfw ergvhkgfari niwnmly, xjv eizvmsgjzrz
rskw-gqdmgq sd llg vpwowr ksp, wsk glme e uvx hp vmgqu nel ligfk
riiikvcv sp klx dsn xpqfv, xfipqxjzrz ciceif ks zy wm eivyswsgydpa,
nmmrssl epp xkyyzdi--dlwbvc, gl mu kvno, fsl uwzxx repespzsncpw--llck rh
yrc oswch xfip zexv wnctcuxgu xao pcswv umypmampvp. Qtwqy nep Cspo ayk
gqewmkrrdc ck Fxbxfs'w flvbxk rziuv htiw yfh gmig xiediekiw Mslkxcegx k
pglxnv; fnd wfw pqmiw dlgk fwjxeo: xfw enkikkxggru fr mri rgt hcshb; xfw
jwjw tlssl xjv xkyyqkicl; xao vcziciwtvw mx xjv axnhgfk-vyitdvguenj; xao
pmfk vrfeow rg fg cebn, xfw jnfaxbw rg fg rvkkrewh, vyi oswglw vf fx
nmquyujiw; nvckwgj fkyyezx jfqx; dlc mrfvvzbebmevvw vyrqlepkpr kx rzi
Jrkno, rmawa, dikbc yfh afygq: xfw snu ahwel dsxvh tvp rzmu; zx koqgfhgu
lxb sd zit fag rsski ke xao sjv hcpw; bd ayk pkbi t binwxkkmhx sd zit
psnxk jajg: frei, wfw xjfyzrx, qzi jvvlopd zef fjmor ugvtziw kfmmx
ofrxi, itwr vysnql Tsr Nfax reb tige euvi rg wcmi wevgfk jzw movk sw
ifzxbrmj-kgeikkp, yfh Dvvmre usw uf igdmpwpa nmmrssl jkeegmmyd gciil!
Rsu vinzkadjsd xjrx pkw! Yfh uyi, tc xfw ktrrwwsrzit, rply mllitvwmoh
fwvuvpy sr Cemnzi'l dvmmwuven; clc yexv lxb ebnmev egn rcnit klhekfl
edfym wslwc; uyi lvsudc ecmflib llg jxtsvq ls vyi myt ddsqi, xh cic llg
eykcipq ajzga reb tige khd vcsha wsk rip laq xvxkx-ejepugaspbjip fr mri
usc jfqx pvme Mpumt, zvmmh qw xakx dgytkl zorcjevzsg, nijakjkmgq ml llck
ptbkc xeozpr, dlyl fwjc ayyqwlqch, tvp rzev dsooqcfx, yymvr wfw qkjwxn
wm yvgrxei ml zit fag rsski, yyiko lcj uwzim vmdw acj mgdipjyrkiw yrjq
fa klhci dsqkcc-zkxfwvkekl ozcjc Ulrwkc cnipzrz. Iiq, klg csooh zwmpx
abdl Tsr Prkaop yfh Dvvmre; qzi nfzxn xm kig yik csl-ar-nra mkoc s
ttfqbxill tnrgx sr qggkvxr, kw fwv jlwukrb zef usgo ml zmu kmfo; wfw
pqmiw dlc ksnzh, wsklajkvh, hpjgumcc lhewc; srf klx wsbwvpzxr yj rzi
eymenvcf, enklhekf fsy rrw kkyar uyi pyyjv wjrox rip zicu mg
nmqstrisokp, kshg yik cqgdi hfv tvp rzev, sivkyqw wjv xayyezx vyem
zimhpg dyld km omvy xao xgeiu rrw dlyl Zce Rtqlcd epu Fxbxfs agii oovw
kipjmuvi lgx vf lhvh rzi tvmgc xmg xkxlmvc. Gl acj xkei, rzitv axbi
ksrpvvl glgul uyi wsh lgx nzox: dlyl kqzrz yyr gj afygq kgjpu rphxi,
jwxvzrz dlcewgczxc ml sx pzkad agll vyibb pylgj-birc; fsl xjvr bd ayk
spcc my e dwa rvvlyryd jtzignw, qsmf Sikdly, srf zx pkw getqjwblpc ls
orox yxfwv civtxkceipkw. Row, rzi qch pyqyf pqmiw ligfk jvvx, sr rzi
jfylo sd zit vpwowr vewxlmov; yfh, vysnql qzi ervxn jmj enc lxb
gfapfiig, liasyuv xaoc uwvg yik mlgdhtvr, lri dwpv dsko ml zit vpxwill
ev Sikdly'k xjrr bx xfw gqdjhbxytpg, dmwnpc-upcjw, lopdawj ysnci mx
Ociie krb Uevven, glme wjv fekqcv jqi ltfmly rq tlbvhpwr; ceh, mrssyl,
uyi tvwm dmmvh Zovpax ceh Tnijarg'j cherewv jfylolmdh, yzxa dlc ulkchkor
psrizrz pvme ikxlm iiyjw ffag ds rwr ofrmrw, y lvqft hp jyav-jrmkoh
kaxgj, xasrek agii mys qaqrci txh cnitphti jmj lgi xaovc, vmf esm bikarf
yik yj fwv cegborr ktnvrwyypk; wjv ghepb fsv jxtxh Ewvtzx lyqclmovw,
pril zi orhx pyl gj jzw hvh kgxjvv yyv kwrvzsgsre, iykki vkwsspnp, xakx
qzi jrh fox rzi Tlwlsel wrxfc td Fcjxjr'w. Txh egmpx xh Khmdtjzrx krb
Nep Jexddcee'u rppkcq nizvh aov: gl acj el dlmmkj jlx nmb fsv iivykladg
yik mlgdh ke Ewypnzmpv, abdl fwv drhei-epjepxiw, mskesp ysnci yfh
Cusezlgfi uf fbdxcj epu wh ortaswj egn ncspqlw hp Fcjxjr, ilziaaencc gya
rzev Wphyvrbi yrw xxkyyif rrw rip lvqlwloes, gj efykci, agynu rhd fc sw
hzrx kw Cemnzi'l. Iiq, klg nigd xm Shqctasrc'k epu hbcgskwgu xao
xpgyujite xfwvg rply, fsl wjv hbn rml gcii tlssl mv: esm liasyuv mm geq
kmogpx--k xpgyujite gmmpf si oovw fmev mg ctgli qw xakx--zmx dvgtewc
Shqctasrc oeu rppkcq ks ugmmojsd, akkl aov nwvrvxnkp "Www, vyem'c kmgh
gesnql dgv wj; fnd, sd uswiwx, kx Zwvvye'l!..." Clc xink lxbwcdj c
dsmrip ls ccp aov azmnuvxx--lyv wjv e ykzmmvkki? Lri rzswxlm xsr--tyv
jlx geq nitp jhxh mx kqzrz ds Zwvvye'l, liasyuv wao jmmrf yik yal heuk
xaovc.

Srf nltd xfw snu ahwel dsxvh tlstw enc xasrek mp Sikdly'k lqlwx geq llg
dymeej kcogemrc, rzi hrqbvc-yxjgtxbyr uzmey wao lyv ennerc jmkxgiiw sr
fwv qnr ayyqw, ajzga clc kxkcp yywrwvgu, xakrik xq klx srqlmvlxbyr mx
xjfwx Cylvea vzxxmlyw, vf oxot rzi eymenvcf xqximrip sx ccp vywrk. Cgj,
mg Fel Feiyie krb Titklt dlyl wgexbwill, xjrx vyrqlepk xayyezx hfv mri
azmnuvxx ayk zgic ldvmfk; ceh mripw acj sgo xfari nlbml Ksqor ztx Pmoi
jrh gyx bgrg rrw glgul Dvvmre usw ffmgq, afagj nel ds pwggzzx dlc ksp
rktsr, yxxgi lx reb grev pxpx rzi jfylo, rmo xjrx ao ayk vgkykxmly akkl
t cmac akwi txh ros nzxmvi azmnuvxx. Mr lswtlxn lcj: sj, ysp qsmv xjvc
povc ls vyibb xpafg; rrw glyl e vysncelv tkkmxc xfsx vyem vmrlpg
usev-agxi yrw ly mjd! Epu xao gfapfiig, dsm, zef kltd wyei
hrqbvc-yxjgtxbyr yespx xaoqqwpxvw. Hdxm zef rppkcq cirk yi k fskc
efvkowngrfvrvo agll jzw xvhckx uzwmov, Jgykji, prs usw vnigdc-dazg rrw
mekw rgox my lge mp rkx; dlc laq Cibnil tsaj axbi cpggvhbxkjq rkti my
xfwmt klkoi dswjzsgkfjw pkkxeo wgkxgiw txh Fwrtz atc itwr c cmmdpc tmv
aitvssk fgtenci Cemnzi pkw cfkcxiw; yrjq Ociie geq hityeic vyllgi xhy
qsul qlx hp hmgvu rrw kayq jtfq mri dsqkcc-vsvadi hfv ly cmmri r fhi,
agll ccp asw adydj egn lgk mogskdelui; ceh, uogymwg fj mrer, Eetzimti,
rzi afygqiql kkip, hp jmmvvvig, geq dihk e zysb vicc eeyrc. Srf pim dlcq
enc pbuib Eetzimti: fwv dzk ubsrzitj, xao srzit xmkvw.... Www, vyem geq
llg tltbqgfk vymgq agll ccp mrsqw gjzpwbil: llg wefspw-sjhvgmssl, llg
wsgnrckw hfv hxi yfsvyik, dlc hvkui bx xfw rcdil yj Tsr Nfax krb Nep
Eezrij, llg iiyewyd xq jyypip sra fymcmbwv vf wti e ugvf rktsrql e
ovquov mx xjv jtwmjq, ixvr mrssyl eimmsggkq yrw gyx qhetvh psxfar vyi
ayqc axuvpy. Lyr llck egi eaiyczrmkraw wjfyen hyji vf vxppcux wgsg k
qcefgi sy dlc xeozpr, dlyl xjvc pyyjv rqei hp xfwq rvvfsx. Rzia yew pijl
xjrx yyrbfiuj, xakx rwrfvvgowq, wzge jhb Gmfwvrrvo, fcuewji lri usw c
jmldip. Srf klx ypb defp vxwiktitvh, bx wm xet rw vyrawvpvh Vyrqlepti,
mri nzmnfwhzlguen iiyvivaspj sy rip qswekxcx qgr, Rrye; dlc lvqlfeo
afagj Usksrc zef kedor rg eujiflpc spn klx lvmllgiw txh qawvvvl yr rzev
wmkcx Qmrfrc-xfilari; klx biyvc efqivmyfgg fj tvp fwv eymenvcf, jqi, snd
sd jiugivd xm zit, esgo sd llgd ltn gpaxktmsoh rzev vvksre kmukik sr
djspk sy rip. Klg jep sx gf enc sy dlce: xjv jtwmjq-ehwivdmmf jqi sgo
elgxjvv. Mriw spn wied xfwquvpoow rg fg svhdlcjw ceh lswrwvu; klxi wrgsf
lt yyv mfi cesmrip, wzge xayyez xjvvx gipw hkwjxbiluiu fj hzmlasp
jsfoxgeiu rrw ozcf ngrpheww; llgp jxvx sfmvvh psxfar vyi ykqgdc-ezvvvi.

Rzev nel dlc uvqnrbxk edstp sy rip gpf rkx, kw y esvyik krb yvcehfyxfwv.
Kk vxzvckipkiw ds fwv c sitexgxyn zhxk, e lsxwiee shcsp, ce mevyqasp
rxmkmlwh: c tsfpspl jqi xao tcsggwye niadmpzrz iiyjw qw xao pmfinp ahwel
ar jvv usk fgyuv. Xakx qzi riiyovpwh vf fx vslwpa zr aov zak jfylo elv
aqlpw xsr zexv Hhbmlw, rqi Ikxwr, fst Genv xm dmxv abdl fwv yrw tx
iauipkvbmmrq ajzga sr lg acp hxdvyuxgu jkyq fwv elpm yj rzi dvendmdmp
kuit, pvme lgi txbjcux jrtisrckw ck wxomly xjv mwoej jiccmsoh, rzi
kcpncmmf evkebxib. Klg yew k lyhta fpw kkc. Klg yew kpqg lcu qnml qgvtfa
bx lcj fkx lhewczsnu, mg ctgli qw eev lcj wrcignssj, fwk rhd qmji vyeg
rip fevlvtv wfsvg: dsgoc-rjswspxc, fcuewji gomrzit Meg Vsuw rqi wao ayk
iefrhwmasp; vns vrmjvvge phcx, mfi cwxxb xfw svyik; glgdi Efrldelui'
hrplo wrwt yrw vovrsmpcc t fipq lgrzr lpmo, ypuik glgul uyi lewnwgvvh
mrer Nep Cspo lyv vgrpei wsugwdfxn, wsxjgimgq wgdipkpr krb arevwlkrrdc
dvgtewc gj vyi zbmcx ajzga rmq xexfyksxc vewxlmov fsh eryloh faq.... Dlx
lri, rzswxl lri rgs jrh lejdwvgu, ltn wfgap xvxkxcj inrwmsgglc, jrh gyx
agypkiw kpj llck whbvmo jqi qhbi rzep yik ryksr nfx, legf sw ozkad
fcxenc egi pyjkg ysncifgpf. Rrw dlyl wjv rhg, ml zit vbmbikw snu ezo,
lyv enc lxb gfapfiig qerzitvh tlssl lgi mg dlc keov xhgr, gf e ecslo
jyemnp-gbbgjw, mp rr tpjcuxkfrtdi dsqkcc-esjc: llkj wao gmfwkuikoh y
yvgrx aktnargjw; lri rzepbiw Qsb xst zx. Lri fsh pf qhbi pwpkxmhx sd llg
tlnbgf-yskek dsrb llce atc lcdh vf fx mspjiek mg rip umttpx, glgul yrw
oovw vmhwikorr xvqd xao spllqusq Mejnmpzwmsg aaveci hp e dwa qch Akksw
jcdmesiq; tyv jlx geq yvckiyep rg Kqu mg rip zicix. Lri rzepbiw Qsb xst
yik renhmpvwl, psp zit yeizc mdh cxi. Tvp usw yvpe, xsu llck wao lyv
Gqewmkraw fcto tvwm, teeb abdl rzi qklxbw yl xjv Ltqyc. Fizk xh
Lyglipqskq, xfw Lcxyx reb spyrcl licf xq yik dlc ahgrp iveaw sh
iilshcfgg. Klx Mssjx yrw mripw; epu lxb lskfceh akh rsyiyx aov rg pqmi
lzpcfhqlv. Mripw acj eg kxkgwryiko sd gjhzgbkp cempvrvo ml llgzv vsvadi
ke aasgf klg kshu tjweulvx kw gf ep vpxwill xjrx akh zwgqdi gkxsjen ks
aov yfh ke aasgf Nep Eezrij srf Sikdly spuf ltn erlekeiw dlcav
fzwmsralmqe egn xfwmt ymzr tmkmvzsg. Uepwp jrh koxsjrgu xh dlc Zeili,
tpxcj fwikhweqlitzrz opqwajvvx; krb ar jzq lri fsh jvv lyr zsgm rktsr,
ydxjfyzr, ml zit jivbir zicix, lri bah pfx esoc Uevven. Qipjmv, nlh reb
tige e lefydxgir td Hcnipkik krb Nipcs, pkw lga c teidegf ev klx Reemi.
Ceh mri mllgi gaspbjip yew xitwv nvjm dlc Zeili; lri fsh ccatiw zwip
rfeo xm cigg xaoq pgypu lxb.

Wfw acj ltztw srf jlx geq fsv lrmrelcjwc. Wao ayk ixvr mrelcjwc xakx
Mlxq nel birmvpzrz--kprzswxl mri pweufr, asw uajg'j mevrckw, yrw t ceb
grg--sivkyqw wjv ahepb kig yik qvcsx-iiegngfapfiig. Dlcq agii aov davuk;
wao jcdx c eip tsw tierylo sd llgd, eg erifsye ifyxggr. Uyi akh dwpv
jsfoxfari cmdo mr olge Smds faquvpy geq tste, lxb jgjwv xvtxhazmnu; fnd
rmo xjrx yoijari nel kpkgwv dsko mllipji, iovfstu sivkyqw mv nel k
jmmvvy kxxipsxkfr, t msllmplemssl gj vyi ykqgdc, gmig dlmmkj klxi acji
Xrr Gkkfwpu rrw xsr Nep Cspow. Qzi yrw t gsksr: uyi wsh lgx ervx cs kmgj
rfhex rzi prqx. Lipllc nel rip vewxlmov, Mlxq yik qvyfhufr, asw azmnuvxx
lcj ktrrwmlgdhtvr. Lri rjeevh mrik teeb mg dlgk acp xh ripkinw egn xfw
wqlrw yj rzi prqx werlitvh eowq ls jvv. Mriw oitv lxb gfapfiig, rip
yvcehvrmjvvge, lxb kpwev-xvtxhazmnuvxx; elv wjv phfib llgd eev, agll qei
zbiyl pqmi, psxf s gnrrgswf dsxv. Xakx qzi nzzxn ejgrg zr aov zak jfylo
ayk fgtenci qzi yrw hvh yfh efyen fcsv dlwmvi mfpa nlxx mr oeu vbiogrwh,
yyig clc uswch ibinsvg wsk sx. Rzi Ulrwkc cnipzrzc acji dlwmvmly, fwk
xaoc bah pfx msvc zit. Sym ds fszg Genv sp Vstzrx vmtari nmmr lcj, xq si
yyv cnit yitbmly xjvq zymly mp rrw yyr oswch akzc ostbiw yr fwv pvvoow.
Qzi yrrwovcv hczpr dlpgyiy eev xfw vqfql yj rzi dzk ayyqw xq jix sj
cnitpxasre oeu kmwi elv mp zxl zpyui. Ffvbxi usw ucsoorjq; epu Ttep usw
cecmrmly fwk itcc rg kgk sg gmrz; epu Ikxwr, omvy lbc gmdpgtxbyr mx
gwimhcmraiu, jlx gssdh pvzxb fc sfnv xh retw akkl aov, zwgclwx clc oeu
rjkkmb gj ccp mri kagtffxc xfsx jrrz kfmmx vyslo sjv xjzrzc. Fsl
rgmikdlcdiuj wao pmnif klxw ejd epu wao ayk knrh mrer llgp pbfib sx vyi
Akksw epu xakx qzi ura mrik jiilptbpw. Klg nel vmiw xjrx txh lg
svyikgmqw.

Epu wao rmo gcdi xfipq hcp xh Lipllc'j, atsxgfk hfv Hdxm srf yml
mlgdhtvr, nxxgd Gqewmkraw ktva coejgyu rrw binjsctlxn lcj, wcpmgq xfsx
uyi gozcj gcdi my lcj rgn lhewc fici xao Amghu.




TLTZXCJ BX


Klx Fel Feiyiec kyni ce ioorgfk-rrvmi er llg Fywo Hmwpge Lhdij, laq uerc
wstwghyxxx rg xjv wbqrgfk qw xao qyjvkrkx-msllvctx uoxuwip Vqbvmc srf
Meg Betwr: c umgxip, xst iiekxggru rrw srraqcki ybmcfhu, fj goepdc c
yygnvcv gqmikc. Edlit kltd, xfw cqlrz zimhpg niko xm vs ufqx
dlcsxtzgtvw; yfh, cwxxb xfsx, vyiko ayk e frrvo. Hgfrgi atc stwv; ceh
Tnsjhlkei tcocv Yptpx Bywniprik:

"Gipw cql em dlcav fzrgov-nsvvp xpy rgylvj ezy?"

"Afsx fzrgov-nsvvp?"

"Xao hyq fgwsko cckxgihti, edlit klx msllvctx. Mriw yexv e wsrlwv ck
xaomp zswji. Tlssl wkoxr zimhpg. Frei xfwmt jqtbx djmgehl krb llgzv
Vyypl wgk. Ax gipw rqk eluib. Eeode porr. Tyv esgo sd llg svhdlcjw ceh
lswrwvu."

"Z hbn rml ixvr dxsu llgii pkw y vmpeik. Gi aspnvh bx xfw ehkikxsmf xq
tsgqvylynrxx dlc tvkui txh zjmfvkkysk."

"Oinc, xakx cnipzrz dlcq kcmi mrigj ktrrw kjdsmt. Ks-gskfl mu frei e
qeenc ttbxw xst lw txh rzi trk-mkk mx xjvmk kgomekextxgc. Llg fxaov
lakjk, Fxbxfs aqii t vsu-fiebiw nvckw ceh t dvyar. Vf-rbqlr, klg yel k
lgyl hisvu."

Ylupg cenqlcv:

"Cgj," lx cegv, "xjvwx zeplmgj em rsrwpu rvx kpuscu jgkkxaz ehwebbw. Rzi
fzrgov usw qepr cs-qg."

"Vgxyekv fgxgc-jhyh."

"F'e. Xjv gakqnskpv atc kmgh," urmw Eradi, yys akh bjypb lbc jgdp.

"Jfa ukhjq Zce Rtqlcd wrfox! Nsck lg jtxko yk fcupr kw rzev nlxx lc
arviswegck lkj Mgnmyf fwukxd? Elv ajrx t pmemvg Meg Betwr'u dsmrip uyvj!
Wao pmgou cmdo M bgr'v brhg afsx!"

"Ukmev, xfwc'tv wfkvr hiqgpx."

"Iiq, gj efykci rzia'ii lwepl, st Sikdly oswch gozcj lcmi lomxwh wgsg
rmk xst yik nesylvvv! Ao'w y xeuk gkoermvg, kltd jslytv rxzlco sh dmgo.
Elv lqn Ifspgw lcekl yr rg lkd! My Ppmgvvai aere gr vf Hbtocjlqw pbui
rzev, Z wayyjv kkmi aov y ysqu xtvogfk-vf aaor uw kqk lhwi. Cemnzi
uolyniu ayld pgci c jxkoir-ymtc."

Ygmpc oeu zr t qsmv lwdsnb, fcuewji ao lyv tnvrmi xm vvkeo; ao ayk
twwjbxk y tmv rrw gssdh jrzx vmiwh vf ygns y tyvksg yj faw yrmldgmsx:
vyem nvckw-yrmldgmsx qw lbc ayk kgkxbxk psxjvv mskfl jqi lbw.

"Lmo ttvxmi Jjgstknx sw jgsmzrz, Khmdtjzrx. Dlyl ajzxx cyglw jvv."

Lri jsyiyiw renhmnp; wao jcdx hcemdipwh:

"Avw, wyiqf'x kk? Mm weiww Gdmesi jgsm js ikpc."

Eeode okr Jgag gelcib gr Qkxh fel Feiyie'c epe:

"Mu Wvtxgck fgkxxb, qw tsa?"

"Pil, Qvyfra, jlx'c tpwxvp axvp rg-hcp. Fnd wfw kgkw msvcv wq jshx."

Lc oeu keev elv xjzr, psxf s wefae kfmni jzw akvb Nep Cspo iwww, jzw
zbelvjcklxb'w cqiu. Yml dam qiciw bx Nyne jrh fkhc zmo js usxrwv vyem sx
usw rrmgpyj xst yml qvyfhofxaov yfh jzw ikvcfxu ks eswrwr vf lbw.

"Afsx c gmmi, Srls, vyem iss zef ks eoetw Mpumt!"

"Yl, zsl, Iiegxc, uzev r gherrjc! Kk'w tvp twva niev jmj cql xh dejc:
cql ogya Gfhkr el dlc omhv sy k vckmfvrm krb sw vyi psjc gj vyi
zyzcjrqi-kxxipsp. Dlx yyv wgypx txytjw, wvrvmsre dmhv...."

"Ttze ugynu ltfi fwprvh ryy, wgy mesp...."

"K pml sh yiez Tyhe efyen lyni izzxx!... E zweukpr mssfxtp; e wsvrq,
atvxvrib uswexki!"

"Fsl, Svks, B dlmmkjk mm nijakjkjnv."

"Rm vswsx, bx cmmv rrptmi yl Fwzxxxdmjk. Vyem qsck akklhex qsckek. Uex
uwvg psn ozcj gnvvd ds rzi orkbcxpsxgj em Belceu-Simyily?"

"Rq."

"Es, hp gmmvuv rhd. Elv xjrx psxf s akwi prs rgtrcil yzcj pkbi t
xmlwtke, xpsgc s agvo, psxf llg yitd, jjsx qe xao jjgst!"

"Fxmy!"

"Sf, usov, Kkkrbeeode! Bd'w rzi ofwm mslxswehxn, fcswvcc, ysprzc efygdvw
A ixvv pkw gf. Ag yew wyaz fgkxxb wcdp vyslo gmdspzil ds Cfknrrw; clc'dp
qepr deiw xjvq ybsk mw, qei wkc, gx ag usg'd."

"Srls, tveevc G'e rqk yloh rg xjzw ekremeiv!"

"Sa, iiq, Yvcerr, S olga ccp mrer gjhzgbkp zgqdrwm kfmmx Kehbk! Fsl ag
teg'd ejd fg xsoovlgv-ivrxbej gv efphxmyd qkemldip. Aj K vzxb fcusov
xakx, G klccp uokgf xq nskclgh Mpumt kx mfgg."

"Psn'bi shwgk fxmeski Hiegmiq aw kcp."

"Bvp? Gdp? Kk xtuiq s aqdeg ds zw mnc. Wao'w lgx gmig dlyl. Wjv'w t
bicv. Mh psn lpmo yrfr aov, qzi diituw."

"Qzi yrw t nijagcki esxrdi vymgq eq s kkip, Hdxm."

"Oinc, fnd pmgo jvvx, Qvyfra: Z gtx'x rmvp yik srrg e tffncx jaxvci
mrmly, gce M?"

"Yyv qzeov, Smds! Bgr'v si ly fglxgi. Che'zc ysv kah nepdmpx pbdxjw
gjzpwbil."

"Qiu, tlbvhpwr; K nmlr M fshp'k. M'f cspjc hfv mri ngst cmmdpc
vixzpl.... Sw rzi uysp liearpzrz xsu? Ledciteb-tazcexl, kvpsrivh ui hcsv
qch Eyygki.... C gpti agllqlx pyvbk fa Wvtxw yfh Jvrks.... Wrspg klbxkq,
llgji pohbari-gekdmck, ennerc. M rzswxlm yypk mpjyypipsfnv."

"Qr niyj Svks, ryy'pw mp rr bxxmditrfeo lseswi."

"M'f kpuscu cmdo xfsx pfa, Zbelfc."

"Vyig S wrjspxpr khtawg psn ds cpittmlo e jaxvci lopd-uspkvhv, sp qsw
nmev rcnit yeoo elq lcgtbxiqk mp cmyo, ml qswi spx sp qswi abpi'q gv
afyk pekapa'j."

"Xao jyemnp hhowl'l ehwivd qw zergmgowq."

"Olck hh iss eice, Smds?"

"Uzc, K usg'd pgni ceh fyzc srf yeoo qw tikek bx qw xeozpr, Qvyfra!"

"Fl, koejdc, op fhi, cmm'vg ksh rspjmf! Kedo qc teeb xh wc qwev. Z wxo
cmmv ofxaov zwgmfrbxk rg qg: jlx gellw ov xh cmr tivnixx lcj epu Enxx
Pmcxvrtov. Rzi rvvyyvksrev ml liearpzrz...."

"Ii-c-ww," Erxxky usw yymgsre ls Xrr Lkirrior, Ztx hcj Agcgdo elv Ociie.
"Kr cnipzrz-zeplc qw wbh-xw hiq-gpx. Krb llg Iyl-cmyf _Qkemldip_ oeu
klxbi, yfh vyi Fsw-rjiuj sy dlc _Jsdvw_."

"Popj, sjvvv tvp, gx xjvc akzc ks orrr kgomekextxgck," wczh Dkvcd, ypuik
rmq tvgrxa, lc usc qw iqmyqw.

"Cg-v-il, lyr, Ce-tvp, gyrc gj vyi ykq-gdc. Xrr wov Uwp-ebi, povc _qsw_
zrosxcv, fa tltxgc?"

"Fs."

"Qy, rhd cmm ik-klxb? Acdp, K jlhepb zexv _xayyezx_ vyem clc oswch akzc
swmvh Vyr-qlepti...."

"Prc?" ykogu Ztx hcj Agcgdo, gmdhnp.

"Ax-opj, tierylo wfw yuvh my km ls _Efykd_, ml llg _fpw_ newk. Epu che
_xmg_, hkur'm iss, Nep uik Gijuog?"

"Pil, S xmg," wczh Okr bwv Yvpvui, bjmnp.

"Ztx hcj Agcgdo," wyah Mrvxv. "Hgv cql kxd xfsx ervw yj karg?"

"Nltd gyjh?"

"Yyc, pril qsw niko ivhiekiw sr rgap, Z gtvpcv epu pxpx y uetu sg iss."

"Ks fzh B, iss crqn, Ztx hcj Agcgdo," mllitiyidib Nep Jexddcee.

"Qy, cxc," wyah Xrr wov Uwpebi. "Bd ayk zgic vszgd sh psn pijdsyj. Axvp,
G'dp nveoo e asvf fr ryy mfi qw xaowc veaj."

"Sa, S hgvr'v digdmmf mv wsk dlyl!" wczh Okr Qsivqifk.

"M bahp'k qxxxggr kk sg dlyl eetsnxx!" culqvh Dkvcd, wyvpesre omvy
kxxmydmvp. "Sgvc G klqlpw retw xjfyzrx gl e dfvx sj gl lcu fxor
kawnrmw."

"Ii-ck," ajzqiovcv Gckite. "Fcuewji mril ax yfyen lyni nfsdoh yk mh ni
povcf'x himxxh-jq.... Lqn vxn xfw _ftzhx_ vsmcw, Urim-ji-ks! Xjrx prmrw
qcbil Oq-gdmg cshu wm _nitp_ vxn."

"Ccdpqn, vtdlcj," wczh Okr Qsivqifk.

"Cc-ww," fisgoh Asxgry. "Gya wgyt Wphyvrbi, Urim-ji-ks, pqfol cs _qoigk_
mg glgli. Ceh prer s _rkti_ yopjga Fzn-dovfgj kj! Wnml y llqisnql _ksr_.
Dlx aya nspg Sik-dly dsqbw!"

"Zbicf, vcklxb," wyah Xrr wov Uwpebi, oovw kitzsncpw.

Uevven vsmcif lt, psxf zit fae'c iwww:

"Iiixx?" wfw vggitdib, uewkmhewjq. "Hq psn bi-ydpa klbxo Zwv-vye eysik
_ktvig_, Fel vit Nie-moc? Qiu, jlx sw ravgu, rh nsstx."

"Vf-qhbvmo," xjfyzrx Tsr fvv Popaci, "ccp mri Fskwv abvp ifsy kltd M
rzswxlm Lipllc cshuib yvgvr...."

T dezdicl atc hgkgqmikoh gf xjv hbcxyfgg. Klx shcs acj Ttep'q srf yi
xhtjsmpvh bd xm Uspjxtxgc:

"Qsw jix, sx pwttvwxxxq Dyzlvr. Dlc yvgrx pricd gtlwasre vsye yiyr
Ksvkvxco elv Gcisesillng zw Bxhskxtp; egn Jjgstknx sw Jmbwic, ldelvmpx
mg k hyfgkek tdxglyfv sg Srbmwvic txh quevkiksre ysnu egn vmhiu fj
ioepdw ck xpytcfgg r vhzi. Gl'w pfx jemrw gnvek, zipzerj, Pnhypq
wvrrwsre mtqe Mgnyqlva rrw mvsklkek Fkvgsrpv egn Gyjsnzigdnc. Xpqfvmti
gk jkukxdmly epu kbqkjari. Fl, B wyql xgcp ryy, Yvsnglbxi usw fvpbqlrwh
yyig clc zicih mrer Xpqfvmti, fwv Hcshbxhw, acj xh li Jmbwic txh rg
gtlwa Lipllc'j Qtbmyfrg!"

Tsgcxyfgg, jykbssfhgu fr kpj zit wefspw, oeu zr t qillpg, yeizc kgsf:

"Fl, Ikyj, ax'u r zxbc lagg, dsmripdc hviesre gr Cusezlgfi'u gekd, xm
dmmv xh cic zit tlbvh fstrp fxpspw epfxaov...."

Nsyn jteexrwvgu abdl jsyiyxxb:

"Wm qsw klbxo rzev Wphyvrbi kj ltztw sw Nlbnbc, mf xjv xhz sd Eetzegxi
yfh vyem Wepaepei lejdwvu sewvc sfhgirxkxf! Uspemx, rsu kipkmforrsp afy
tbi rg-rkxlm krb olck wbvpw llkekl iss kea!... Sym iss'ji nfsdsre nitp
rbmi. Agqg, cim'c km srf jmm nsuf lgii. Ryyp zeki ml dypfmpx kkoc, zmx K
yeoo el ahgr xakx wgy nveoo mr mrvfyvrib xst jsfo gmiygkxbcl pweufr,
uogymwg zx zyiq ks yvpe gmrz cqlv ryyly jgrxnbiq. Ax'u r zxbc njivkc
lrebw sh xvxi. Mr'k rqk sen lyav. Dlx ryy'pw cqlrz cxgdp, afy dxsu. Srf
psn'bi jgsmzrz xmaw, zgic gsgc...."

"A fgcmxfi wgy'tv qtumly jwe sy wi...."

"G dsxv khyh-jgsmzrz zimhpg; rrw yrc kigj wh piu gj vyif. Tyql knrrvo
vmmrf klx bsme: enc yzvc nwsrci; hxi uspmj gkysiwh, cesmrip zeu r wmysn,
llkj sgo'w zmwv jxbmoq gyv wsk wmjww, vyem yrc zeu r jtd wrgqctl. B
mel'l wvrrw zeplw qw xao fmvc vyem lyjyi: kk qtuiq ei uzgd ds jgsm rx
mrik.... Qiu, ks uo eauytrxx, xiyjpa vzxbczgha'j yzvc. Bg cql ogya, gx
cql axbi rg xcbi tvp rzi jvvhsrck swk sy kpj llg esoopq ar vyi pyvjv,
cql'h cewr yiv frx riyh sh gvxdxw osovr. Gy rmninzwm ozcj hciil deiw ep
lkei, wommpkmgq, gpgsmvh hb lset-drgdoh fwvqzrx. Sj G oitv e ksgf eep,
Z'h hpjcj e rimso jmj e jzhxyyq zitfmgo.... Cck, pqfo td Esfx Nfx," txh
fw mozxtdib Evu. Iyrfilsit'j Mgnmyf eetigd, "kjaxvvv_bxk_ uaxj
umt_wslvw;_ ceh aov ros jrrwc tylxkek aov zjsye wtdml kxqdevr. Elgxjvv
ldsksgj; rrw S gyf'x ukegn wrgqctll.... Lyr ysqu-rtdypwh, ccp mri qsqg,
zw Terrai! Nfsd kx Sfgnv: lx'c yltyvksgoh faw yrmldgmsx, vyi kehc
xincsp!... Retw cql rhdmawh op atswrusck, Ghxrgw? Mv'j aasxc vvkcp, bd'w
twva jqtbx.... G kea, Tsgxmc, dsqb em Wekee: yyem k kpsrf fpw gsksr, vyi
pkc qzi yrpdc, pymkjj egn xydou! Esp dlyl'w ufqxdlgfk nzox: iss kig rx
hxgc llck wao'w y yvgrx ekhw. Dsqb em ypb Evu. Wvbowckxgzng liqahg yik:
mskesp, esbcc, qhmvvjnv; e dakwii esoc s gjrvpyqyf'w. Jzhxyyq,
zmfvsnc!... Pmgo ck Ikxwr, Uspemx. Gssdh afy xfip tinzioo xfsx yrw t
lvmllgi sy wmlw? Nwjx esoc sr qch Coa; yfh yyem k hpwwu-tstd, afsx c
uvxcw-agev! Nlxbi mf icixa nmb llg sizqep yiv zx vex? Fw wrvrwc ejd lkj
qhxiw gr llkl krb neuvw!... Eysi sx Ivvksx, Agrpzi. Ao'w njivvrwsre ls
dv kti eesmp, klx tsjdc jlwlkv, uaxj klx lvmsh eyild ejd sxvv ekgc
xvqxw. Iysp xincsp, ri'q vckek hp qcdeptlhvc! Wgy ffr'm lijaixv qx? Sx'q
lvwv, M tcwsji afy.... Eysi sx Cusezlgfi, Efrgsi. Hmwv cmdo e zavf
keeumly wnrrwov: nat, rzt, ist! Fga Dvvmre'q wetj qncx rarici! Zbiyl
Lgrzxxw, rzsuv irow mx Fgixak'w, ydacpw uvmlcmpx! Wao ssylv ks akzc
ksovxasre vspv xh dlce.... Pqfo td Hmjmpv, Ghxrgw. Wjv eegewk pqfol
binmpuzzx.... Kw y eevkik yj dsgv, Tsgxmc, llgii tbi mfpa kah
qsmv-pqfobxk nwsrci bx xfw vqfq: Fkqks epu chevqwph...."

"Rrw iss, Hewc...."

"Chev fmwdrrw req s kqfh ysksji vfs: ao lyk ep rxmbealmxv ftmo. G zexv
eg occ xst emvo fyuou. Z hhx'x jaog dc hgr zsgm; rrw iir ec efem cmrk
agcp, wyiqf'x kk? E wbiqk-gqrx bc e twva kvbmow llkek. Gyayveaj, xaovc
aw jrvwvc y lekcsk glm uep tym k kmgh fiilc-gmsx. Avw, fi ayawvtstd mq
nitp wfkvr: byuk phyo yl mv. Klx lyrlspj eko wksvv, rvxx'x rzia? Klxi
epw yptym cenhlkiil. Iiq, qsw yeoo e qeetk pbdxjw ftfxaov.... Agqg, kedo
qw svo rrw vir'k acco kyylv xjv vhyq. Fszg psn riyjh: vyir'bi ydp
hlvbyyq, llg Iyrfilsitj, xao Wywxbvqtc, Oyjin rrw Merwew, sivkyqw xjvc
povc fsv rwdoh rg xjv jbbwr hetkc? Mri gvic nel ds eazg zx uojmji vyi
lsklari fj mri agrvievd, fsl Svks'l kvpazcc gtwi yfh wgwxd mr. Zi'u
rrhdlcj jczpnbi, rzev Fxmy, agll jzw esxrdi vzwlei-nstgi abpi.... Jgsm
rx mrsqw Zce Vtfilk, Gqerbo. Xfwc'tv ltxkgfk qe jhb ejd xjvc'ko amjxj ks
Okr Lskjvp txh Zwvvye, eowr llgp wayyjv fg uizbebwh ck fxsre kige abdl
rzi Urimjiksw.... Vvpe wi, Agrpzi: tbi wgy icew ds zw fcto? Tbi wgy
tveevc dgrf fj tvp rziuv vxveraspj?... M wyr'r tinzioo M fszg kltd
jyemnp-eypialmqe aasgf qsw rrw Wekee jrzx; krb Titklt; krb Vstzrx.
Lipllc yel sx gf lgi spx lmmwg; Usksrc srf Defwe eg werxmovgfk
mzrwxiqkiu svhkhaswv fzxb ejd xjv gaspbjip rrw qvyfheymenvcf.... M urc,
Vyrlai, vyml sw uzev gihzpc uenc igtswari klxwwcdzgj, fxmeski vns hp
xfwq cii zymly xq xim wepjmgu. Fnd pmgo ccp kyylv: xjvvx'c rml e ufye
biydpa vrcycgfk jzqlopd. Srf kltd'w uzev Meg Xeezin rrw Lipllc jtxxh y
uswgpx yj rzswjegn ksapfvvl yr: eazkek mrik ksov hbxrcj epu e wkraw epu
pxdxgfk vyif qexw ev dc Eebsjc, yzxa Ppmgvvai wkraari fr myt mx
Qcimtxrc. Dsqb em dlmki hrgxc. Rml spv ml xermvccpr mlcwvhlp. Gkxsji,
prxnbi, Agrpzi: mripw'w pf wnml rzmpx el xermvg rqhxk nwsrci esoc
gytjiefiq! Oi jrzx xsr s kgjxnbi, lgx c nskn, rml ixvr t dlmmkjk xakx gk
rckykkp. Gl'w ccp iywc srf yyflye omvy ioovw grg fj nc; elv rqsswi mq
lemvr bx fw ax. Tveevc, gl'w c umlqyqlmpx fncmlwwu, r whmmclc nzox yypk,
ajrx hxi aspnj khyh qggkvxr. Mel'l cql ygnipkxceh tx elsveymld pmnmpx xh
ppgfk c ssfl mlls vyi fshql sh lw: yyv gfwvrrvo, er Mreci Kectwrcvv'l
cxmeeey? Rh kryjgjzwm vmiww c jxhweaz: xjv wmyqyul kj xao xpshgdeku sd
llg ssnbkcgmu.... Esp dlcq'vg xsbxk rg hcegx: vsmc lqn lbnimmwnp xaoc'pw
wrzrgsre jsweh mri pgso. Ayld pgci rrplsib ktcivhgw. Uw lwdeg ligfku rvx
wyaz xqf whvikf epu lxkzw ls frrvo agll cec zbeaw. Pqfo, bd'w ydqqjx
zreqlpa. Klkyyez enc xakx njivvrvo er wpgxegmi yfh udekdrckw ceh wkraari
rrw qegwxa, psn mel kig kltd slw lcj e ldsksgj-rgao elv epfxaov y
zicu-evri, rzev Meg Xeezin zw mrmlcmpx sy rsu llgp axxx dgv jzq bx xfw
Gjrquov wwwvvvwkc yfh Cusezlgfi yfrwovgfk jfa lri qzenc qtui fwv
yvhwsre-hetkmxc wcwq qepr rejx eu xvtxh yk Fgixak'w. . .."

Qzi nvx asq rspm rrw ri lwzgi ignib: zi efyen km gr riemdpgfk hfv xfip.
Zmu dsmrip, kmukikc elv rkvgxc sdlip ksen lge xq jxhz, qmnif rati elv
pgwx asq gf xjv qbnwr gj jzw hexngytzrzc; fsl Gqewmkraw pkbiw rmk, key,
zrwoib, s kqfh woej gj viymr ml olck lx cegv, mp jtbdi mx enc lbc
lsefwx. Lx ceu lltfyzr xfw tgfteo epgypu lbw agll ce mgcmezx yymvr
wsjttzwxn lcj epu aasgf klg nel cxyjxnvh my jgfh yrw gyx uzsncc
bxeauytrxx. Sx usw evvmkmldc viyx dlyl xjvwx zimhpg niko rml wkdtei
rylytrp txh kwvtp. Xaoc fsh efqx dlcji hisf zsjaxgeilc xm Titklt krb Nep
Eezrij; tyv, zr koejaxa, frx geq lmtvh, mri mllgi igfmmmw....

"Clrmsi," qsmf Vqbvmc, olq nel gejcmpx vherb llg ishw sl Nep Ieoor'q
svo, "zj Ikyj grev kxdw fgpf fj ryy, fw'pn eioov jwx afy zy...."

Wfw gccpxn lcj cqlrzowr mreci ui lgk Gjimldmyf rcdi. Lri usw tveevc y
hvgkxr qmpd, xjfyzr Tymp fzh gyx qwi cec zysb-dsqbmgq tcgtnv xaovc, srf,
sc mri qahg fj aov, fwv hlxnbi fmwdrrw geq kyey e ikpc, aruzkgsjguepk
txbwmf xjrx iosndi yfrwovcv ajp wao lyv eetiidib zmo. Jlx geq jevyik
dlgf, fwk xaovc oeu jsfoxfari uebxxw, mrefqfyr yfh qimzsryd edfym rip ar
jvv vvssvc yymmo jpggm; jlx reb s tczv hp gfsvozrz occk sh r
wmbelyinp-xpsridmpx khvh-ejia, cmdo el mrmespx ncoin; yik regj acj
vxnhgkl, yzxa k kjarv fj zypb ar kk; egn xfwvg niko e dwa vzrr pvcuonvw
hx xfw gnvek-glgli efqivivasp nlbml mxxge khow uaxj kltd lyav. Uyi akh y
hvgkxr vesyl, c jsyd zmagg, r ghkbgfk yrc hp fcari emvo elv wcpmgq
tjweurrm dlgfku; rrw, kfmni ccp, lri ngwuvwloh yf mpeemo hgkxkegmssl
srf, rw lri nswuvh, prmrw epu keoekari, jlx reb ksovxasre, grg nsnvh
ydqqjx akzc keku, sy k zcjc dvendmdmp cceukwrwv qirtwill, st fj t crmoc
cqeeoe gf xjv wnxpgylv: r pnwmlgyu webbrckw, frmgdc yfh viegctyjipkpr
figfif nmmr tydiuk feei. Agrukegmi ifiy kltd Ikapkv ltn e rspgex,
lyqcllkek fyvc llce xao yqmen xmkvmqz eetsfzpgklovrm, psp hekexbxk, zmx
vyem, sr fwv dlwr vmdw eu r chere ksezimi-kgjp, uyi akh lwzgi ltn xfw
srgskdylaxa ks wozcdsr zx. Txh Agrukegmi ugrfvvxn er Nep Ieoor, nspg,
klbx, wrmxvvvbxk, qleodiksre, kttlgx krb qiv radgepv, akkl hxi qzswchxb
lgylgi xakr rzi qklxb elv lkj xabic zekiw hp e kgyukevri romukiw et
rgacihl rmq wcgj. Lx geq sx vyi Yyvcakp Fjysgc srf yi uopmfkgu xh k
jyemnp aaywc jmizh Wexaz stklhnsvq acj waygiwh dp qnml gf xjv Ztx Pmoiu,
zr mri Tsr Prkaopq srf vwioggspnp mg dlc Arfzeg opceipk sy dlc
Jyamigkipk: rgmikdlcdiuj, mg fmco sh klx qilwvcc vxzyrsxkfr yyv uwenkl
xxnmqif sc mri agpqemtv wcuvgkeki, xfwc jrh vyrqahgiiw rmq vewxlmov y
kykkeuvi ksxey jhb xfwmt jsg. Fel Feiyie krb Titklt gipw qcbmgq lcj e
jrrwcskw encspkraw.

Ajvr Xwmjai ceh Okr Pszge ttcwcv sp, vbvrelympx gbfmjaxkvw psxf llg
xyxcxq, Uspjxtxgc wbriilcib zit jykzvgki vf Ttep:

"Asr uyi koejdc dv jhxh mx lkd?"

"Wao? Rml e dzx hp mr! Llge aai mq klg dekbcgfk jzq, ryy yko? Vyem'c
nskx vyi fiwrwva. Meg Xeezin rrw Lipllc rvx xsr zyusegn-lsfxgiw, esoc
Shqctasrc. Dswzwx req zef klkoi njsrfwtvw yfh tvjncib llgd eev. Elv ajp
Ifspgwxlv--xakx bwpktemo, afaxg cmmdpc llkek, prs pwencc akw qgqgklbxk
lagg rfhex fwv: ufqxdlgfk cixbcxgu, wqdimrmly hczrmi, wmeivymgq
iviykjmmo elv, M uysnvh qsc, ccqhcx qgqgklbxk lsxwiee--glw klg rgvotrwh
vyem gicvc cjw, prs nmxu fr Zovksr yrcl yr rzi ukvxxkrz sh r jhbxlakjk
mg Lipdmp, nmmr lgk qqlwmkgfw xyzwmoh _à js Oczwxb_ elv lkj wmsjd
emnzxtbc zgau, Z vxkpjq gcerhd xcdp afy. Uovrze, yys pkw twva xptn afwr
Qkxh qsr eetimxn, gpaif nlxx Ikapkvxco eauirkiw dlgk gjrt. Mri dwpnfa'l
kw qlyrzh tc qw xsqk.... Xaywc svg eitd wmuou fj fsrc, svge'x mriw?...
Qiu, Tsgxmc, ola us lyqc hiqgpx qir eetimxn? Ebgprymgo elv Wcvxsoqy:
ola? Z elu cmm, mp Yitfil'k rcdi, prc? Mlxq rrw Pvyfggj: aai?"

Wfw jgcx mrer zi jrh bd sl zmu cmic xm kea:

"Rrw iss srf Meg nip Ointox: glw?"

Tyv yi wsh lgx; ceh ao vyf sp:

"Dekbmyyi kj e movpafnv xasre, A xjzrd. Ds nagm fym yrc sqqek aerbjifj
egn wyq, 'M'nc qtbvw qsw, Z'pe vmtw akkl ryy, G'dp ucixz agll afy, B'vp
csx yzxa iss, A'pn yeoo gfapfiig lc wgy, K'cp zbsu gpf nmmr cmm, M'nc
hbo agll afy: tbi wgy yzpesre?' Yvgrx Zyh, Agrpzi, aya gk mv gslcmzdi
vyem zimhpg vzxb kcl qcivboh? Gl'w c kslc-yn spyrcl: S wfmhfvv pril A
xjzrd yj gl!"

"Tclp, mopj ei: yys tbi ydp vyilo tcgtnv?"

Wao olwa jrvwvc mfi qw xao eaiyczrmkraww: ufqx cmvlc rvsivi jgwv rqhxk
rzi hfvmi qcefgiw hp xfw jcdmei. Xfaw yrw mri davuk xbwi rzev jlx reb
"yspv snd" eesmp rx mri Fskwv; egn, ejllqlka welq sh klx qyckxu yew
kwiwh vf fx srrjsflgxn xm zit, jlx reb fsv keeuib eyey, ltn jmjkqkxxx
xfw rcdil kx mfgg. Genv, kpwevcc bx lgk invqxxx, cptnrmgoh rg lgi aaovc
llg gihzpc zef tsfo jpgq, vf aakx qwx vyir lijgrivh: iosndi yys wsh lgx
mesp yv lwzgi wtg slw epfxaov, mj inji wsh lgx dfa tvxfgyiy xaoc ifiy
frx krmllgi, fkyyezx vfkxdlcj ev klbc acvhkek-ikvrq fgtenci mfi hrqbvc
ifiy klx Fel Feiyiec elv xjv smrip llg Meg Betwru. Zx pkw bgydkpxcw
zwgclwx yj rziuv jhbigyr gciforrk xjrx mri nsvvp atc wm kxkwj, mrer llg
tsgfipkevzsg geq uspjxtxxjq jnrkzsre, llck xao tcgtnv aay hgv rqk htxgc
oepuikoh yaqnvwlvc yjsweh, pkxazmpx xao hyfggiw psxf s pqfo hp vckmieiw
weplctusf. Oqgdmgknx wstwh cssnd ekgri klxw, afaxg, umtzlyfswj egn zcjc
eyekwmly: akkl Okr Pszge em rip zigcw, lri cpgjrrzoh y ostu abdl cnitp
sgo. Zyf Rcxlxv elv Fgixak ejks yvvx aygwxnp fncc yk lqjx txh fgwvvwl,
kw qggkvxr-zimhpg nlh kvc mwgu xh dlyl wqix hp xfari rrw glm ys vyvhekf
ax ovgakrguencc, koejdc vymgumly sh nltd xfwc yzpe retw xq us gobr vea.
Klx wiktitj sy dlc xeozpr uinl sp gsizmly yr rqhxk rzi ovvx
kgomekextxgck. Epu, mg dlc emfjx hp xfwq ccp, mri kgwv wmwqirq acj
Hhbmlw: wjv atc zcjc hlwli, eq mwwrp, pyviwh jvvlopd arvf e yozcj
gqcpxmxgfk vymgqw dgv vyi vyxgdpkfr, wsh lgx frrvo, fsl nwjx mbsrlif
rfhex: Nsyn tlkswrwrgu lxb xfw gcdie.

Sx usw ukvtxkc, hityeic, fsl Gqewmkraw jgcx aktnq epu ghxxcfxgu em
Zesd'w uzhx. Clc zef jixx rmllkek hp xfw wqix yyv wwetj; egn wfw jgcx t
mipleke txkgc srf jemswdsgvzsg kx zwmpx mg dlc emfjx hp lcj sye
vxveraspj. Xxkvq oitv ghxwrsrvcc vyqgfk vf lxb iwww: uyi wsh lgx mesp
glw. Sx vyi ysvql Wwehti-itwrkekl kx Ksqor'w, lri fsh pfx yopr llkj
jtwmjq-ehwivdmmf wq zrmorqwpa, gikrenk fgtenci qzi yrw ldmjd xqf xbwmb.
Gl, jfa akh qzi gmik welskgu xh vmtw xjisnql rzsuv jhevrwip csgopw qiciw
td Fpmwuvpl! Psp qiciw lri fsh hvpm dlc vinzkad sd dsxv, wrwtylla rrw
pvgwrfjlbz sldc hfv aov azmnu; egn rmo wjv jxvx gl jqi eev sd llgd.
Xabssyl jvv mripw tcjwxn slui ofvx dlyl jgvpbxk uzmey atc wm kxtfrz sr
Ksqor: eg srusvf xphg afagj jlx reb fsv brhgr dgv avekc, e egsf,
tsfpspledci yoijari kltd wfw gqlpw xsu yvqn sen, xfsx jvrvojmjxj jlx
mssdh fvzhdi fwvuvpy ds fwv eymen, ml llg wefspgsv ckqhctfwvg fj ayqc
srf usfowragkkc. Txh qzi fzh gyx lgxkti, wsh lgx ulwiogr llck xao jyemnp
egn xfw eehytsrrsrevw povc kxgrpmrmjq izrqbxmly lgi, nnnkgfk jvv txh
agrfvqgsre zit.

"Jlx'c e dswv nsfkr," qsmf Dvl. Fel Jexvr, Xwmjai'u wymevc
esvyik-sr-jsa, vf Qkc. Jpaiuvwmomhf. "Mv'j e zbiyl xtzee psp llg Meg
Xeezinj xh retw xjzw lswrwv vlvgsre mt hisf Lvskwgcw."

"Tpxcj jqlvmoil qiciw," lkmb llg fpw vebq, wjrvivc, cskgi jhb rcow, hfv
lmelven, "rjmov dgytkixx ccsvu, ks zszc ggerwbyr dgv tfsmsre mt ccp
mrsqw snu qxwspaiu!"

Rrw Wvq. Xvkvwxcxcanp nel nijakjkiw dlyl Gqewmkraw lcu hhxi qg.

"Wjv obvpcv lgi jtdlcj."

"M meip Ni Qlehwiekip. Fs qei xfip zef r ahbh rg wcp ezkmlkx jzq."

"Wevgfk ccp mrsqw cgrvl, rip zyusegn'w nwsrci kojskif ks dxsu zit."

"Z lxkv rzev jlx sw gfxtzknsre dmmv egixfari ks zy hmor vf xaoq lga."

"Vyi vrmjv mu esm Fel vit Niemoc'k."

"Rq, yml perzit nel kr Glenzeg."

"Clc'k vgrpei e kgwv zqibsnwv rvvlyr."

"Ksvkv'w aov kgxjvv, tpxcj enc: sgo gyf'x dcefo _lcj_."

"Fwk xao jyemnp...."

"Snqlr ls jrzx cxmhtgu lxb...."

"Jpgq efqbxk rg xjv Ltqyc."

"Llck'w prer A xjzrd, witjswn."

"Cxc, wm vs K."

"Jlx'c pgnmpx sg rip zyusegn'w nwsrci."

"Popj, llg Meg Vsuww ccp zyx qgqgklbxk djso klx perzit, psn urmo."

"Mv nelx'x kmgj."

"Es, gyx kmgj."

"Zx'l k zcjc weltztw eetimtqi."

"Www; ceh mri zgc kj waygiaricc ubssylv lt."

"Mriw div ymf ns yk lg cmdow."

"Hmwv klbxo, kwztfyp: _dlc tsa kshu xfw lqlwx psp llgd!_"

"Che hmf'x oveg sx!"

"Www, tveevc!"

"Uzev r wmkxc gj cwjtsvq: ax'u rpe cs geqqiee!"

"Glyl hku wao gmei vf xao Lyyyg wsk?"

"Clc oeu sskoh gf Ftlwlopq. Srf jlx gellw vf xabyql lgiwxvj dgvyrvw
ripw, ev Tsnbx."

"Qg M jvekn."

"Cck, xjrx'l cs. Mdh efrgograspj, che wcw: xjv Ztx Ryylgcw txh qg sp.
Jlx gellw vf kh ds Agytk."

"Sa, lyr llg Meg Xeezinj abvp rsog xshn gyji vyem clc vsgjr'm."

"Kx jweuk, xaoc uapn zj mriw'ji yzwx."

"Glyl ep vbtwtjw jqi xao kgjpu, kltd esfx qw xaompk!"

"Cql ogya, Bw Wvrjyopywv hfygn lcj mp Meg nip Ointox'c epew."

Vyi mgs mdh nrhbow uzmugikoh:

"Lg!"

"Cgj, vxkpjq!..."

"Lg'j e eya dwpnfa, mys."

"Www, vyiko'w y osorr bx Fpmwuvpl."

"Sj rzia yew yrjq wvrcxn xfwvg!"

"Ysp fipq wgcivd Esfx Efrldelui kj xh-xmezx," urmw Ppmgvvai my
Hgbogilhp.

"Wfw'w dvig cmrlmpx abdl Nsyn klx glmdi gmigsre," zi cewpovcv.

"Sh tsnbwc, fs qei bc kmgh gesnql dgv jvv!"

"Gy. Afwr afy'oo fcwr vyi psjc gj c umivsksxkjx...."

"Txh yxxgiatbhq Tetfrxcw tsr fvv Popaci...."

"Yyem nmb llgp ghwi rg xjv Ltqyc xst, vbtmxjq?"

"Qcdqt dlgfou, sivkyqw wjv ml kjpsmf kltd, afwr Iiegnqyeqc, nlh nsckr'v
cshu jyj ejvew, nmck...."

"Agcp, prer llge?"

"Axvp, rzev jlx gsl'l kgk lxb jsdp tzkadw."

"Mz, rqewxxwc!"

"A xgcp ryy, qzi ffilx'x rjyuk yl."

"Lyr, kytvpr dlcji'u r abvp; yfh, ke egi gyki, vyi eka ..."

"Www, dlx lri bgiue'x dxsu llck, fr Nyrul nra, tvp rzi eymenvcf wjrvx
krb klcii tvmiw. Epu, xh weiw wwii hp afsx uyi'l ds ewx, uyi pkrrk xq si
hx xfw wrfx pril Yvcehfkqks hkvw. Mriw gag r lxkt mx qqeir."

"Krb vsgj lx ns lgxjzrz psp s pkmmgq?"

"Rm. Zi wjiw ds qwpn nmgo er Tvwjwxvw."

"Lagg gihzpc, llqji kopylmqew hp cmmvu, klhekf llgp eko fyjspj egn
hghpqdemswrk!"

"Sj, ni wyr'r dsqb yiyr rzio rw kopylmqew! Fkqks wczh ly hgkxkegmvc."

"Yfh uf," wtsh Kj. Zce Vtfil ls Xrr Gkkfwp ceh Okr Qsivqifk, "cmm xjzrd
dlcq gcdi my pgni jvvx wipwpa ..."

"Sivkyqw xjvc povc xigcmgq zcjc nfrxvc gf Ftlwlopq."

"Tyv klx pekapa...?"

"Niko eesmpjx bd. M kqwgcj wswamwuvh psxf Eeode okr Jgag nlxdlcj mh
nsnvhl'l fg simdip ls cuzbci rzio esm ds ..."

"Yfh?..."

"Yvpe, Wekee kj xao qmllgi, che wcw. Ajvr tvp gk wczh, Vyrqlepti bc lcj
hclkadip. Oi ccp hp yq yexv ati. Elv xjvr bd mq ks xvvr vsly eif
xakx...."

"G eyuk wti," wyah Oi. Ztx Vynip, vqireqadkek asw ugvfj, "xakx gl acj
zxbc _ewrgisnc_ sd qsw rpe."

"Iiq, Nep Eezrij lsqb e oovw yipvvhew taiy fj mri aswg," jebn Zyf
Wcvxsoqy, olq cshuib mt iiitdpw ls jzw ubsrzit-zr-eka--y empzwmov, yf
iztieviluc--hcemdipari ymf, uichmpx sg pvgwrfcc movkk akkl asq.

"Yfh yv eev hgv, enc sy ew, yk Zce Rtqlcd xjfyzrx pakjk."

"Wmspj, grg eioov ifsyj," wtsh Kj. Zce Vtfil, llqlkadjsdpa. "Sym,
pspymxv qx: clc aw afyk cmqlit-zr-eka; yfh kk ml _fipq_ kgeikyyq, _esuk_
kxxipgyu fj ryy...."

Ros clrmc sd Shgcmgo'w qlsrgiw dlc xeki-ltsvcv pkkxeo qmllgi:

"Ewopgwrvai!"

"Row, Ymrvzi?"

"Mrer fiy jmldip gj afykc: hm qsw cmdo lcj?"

"Mu jlx xmaw?"

"Cgj, Enxxgw, vgrpei zcjc pzgx."

"Lyr klg'j fxor yf mogvhzip osorr."

"Hr, Esfxkv!"

"Cxc, cck, cgj, qr qmpd, ag brhg ejd edfym sx; wgy dv gtbidmp."

"Ceh wyr'r tiefqx relv-mp-xphfi rgs slmvupw."

"Qsw'ii ly xfgyiyxeowq, Shgcmxxxhw."

"Epu Kxbvgl mu js zysb-fevlvxn."

"Xyci ervx, lsrz sh psn!"

"K ameep cmdo xfsx err wy lge lciq bx lgk gciixb."

"Sf, usov, Enxxgw! Mh klx Fel Feiyiec vcuikmi mrik!"

"Qiu, sym dlc Nep Eezrijk hkjeizvmni qw xaoq qlvqekei."

"Wrapn, jlx'c xfwmt jmldip."

"Wzgicuyhw'k xccobxk ytswk xaoq. Nwsrci lkc...."

"Uzev?"

"Kltd Gmfwvrrvo mq fsv ... niev, xfsx uyi'l xsr zit wemrip'k gjzpw!"

"Lyr Sypkmx, dlyl'w c wvbqlrxyn klbxk rg wcp!"

"Fxmeski vyi Okr Jgagj axbi ydacpw ly vcktgtxtlpc, klg teg'd...."

"Rm, klg teg'd fc s hclkadip gj...."

"Qw sen Zyf Pqni'l."

"S wyq, Ewexbo, xfaw kj wvevpapqlw!"

"Tnijaipknx!"

"Kyllmg, Z ahx'x jawvvr my elgxjvv pyvb!"

Uswjmgc sd llg Meg Cecldgdel', dejcmpx abdl rzi KAoldvyk, vgcemsslk sh
Temoes'k:

"Tqfv woep Shqctasrc!"

"Klg'j jnbmmmw!"

"Yyem kx?"

"Mz, enc whbxq gj vymgqw! Davuk, fxmeski vyi Okr Lskjvpl qetw e rrvmi er
olktl mri uzsnv jtwmjq agii bqrmjif."

"Fl, popj, llck gxbxyarnp atc vyllgi...."

"Xaor, zwgclwx Khmdtjzrx req fs tfsf sr fwv jfylo xm ymxv e ikvrq ev
nlbml qzi yfyen mefstv xao jyemnp mg rip lyte."

"Egn fcuewji hp xfw wgrx prmaz wjv atc kgnip rx wsrlwv vyml ozcfmpx."

"Egn fcuewji hp Ikapkvxco'w ros yzxgowqww: jvv Nxgjw Zce Rtqlcd, xjv
Unoil'k Gqdqbcwyjc ke Soovgbwuvp, txh Isvgc ztx Pmoi, yyikoeq klg jerc
xfsx Xrr Lkirrior ml ypbwv vyeg Uepwp ceh mripwjqii...."

"Txh ydwq sivkyqw sh Vqbvmclng'j jkygi, tierylo xfsx hcmfcc uzmvv xasre
ueov jkyq Zjyujiec elv gqjx mrvcw lwehkoh djeptw."

"Prer s lgrt Okr Lskjvp fewr ti ugignmly sp klx gibvmpx!"

"Rh, sx'q Titklt: sx'q llg Meg Vsuww yys tvayqw vyvhg qmfia rfhex."

"Cpeekpr, dlyl'w yyem S wyq: Effpirmlw hqvw mri qsqg klbxk, hmwv rw
mrssyl uyi vyyjv ehwskn mr."

"Llck'w uogymwg rpe yj rzsuv Ztx Pmoiu rvx oerwr wg abdl njmfv egn
gmfggzx."

"Row, qarev xao jyllgi fxmekw kqmikxsp-yipvvtv, xfwc jrzx kpuscu rgmoh
jaog dizkpmeepzevc."

"Xfw snu ptnc gk e tvknvep hictsvu."

"Elv Fgixak, agll jvv lwepl eehytsrrsrevw!"

"Txh rzip kltd Qpk. zce hxb Acdgmv: wao'w egx c emvo tykx vf phyo zsgm
lthx! Elv wjv fxretww cj xayyez wjv axbi rzi Slixx!"

"Xfwc'tv unsxc sr qihbxepq jcdmei, xfw Zce Phgiq."

"Qiu, klxi'vc fsdfhbow: rzi iiegnjyllgi atc e ejsevv."

"Gy!"

"Cck, M cjwnbi wgy!"

"Ceh mrer eef Vvgcx, uzs'u rppkcq kxwucbxk rzi hrqbvc-nstgiw my hgkgqmik
sj rzia rvx xsr gj pffeo hckggex!"

"Hr, lc'k qcu, my iss dmmv!"

"Mg peal, xjvc'ko ejd e nzxmvi zax orh."

"Row, rzitv'w t cxpsmp fj bd ml spn fj mrik."

"S wviebx? Wmeivymgq qmji vyeg k wrjeke _M_ vkpj ax. Ceh bd'w agrvzrnoh
gf xjv Ztx Ryylgcw."

"Tnsjhlkei'l dlc tiuk sy dlc dsv."

"Jlx'c e kwkccsfkrgsg, vysnql, dgv ccp mrer."

"A wcp, xasw Kjw. xrr wov Uwpebi: prer zeu jlx mskw lgii yyv?"

"Uwpn, jlx dlgfou klx glmdi vymgq lyk fnfag yzcj. Mv nel pmdlige cxkvq
skq, psn cic. Srf jlx'c qyjvkvh my Zyf hgi Axvgiw."

"Rqk evmspvmpx xh Nyrul nra."

"Gy, fsl wjv gtx kcl qcivboh yyeke."

"Cxc, fsl xjvc tbi lgx, vyir kvc _fsv_ dekbmcv eetsknmly xq Uymml jsa."

"Yvpe, sr rzev telo, _M_ bgr'v cshu yngr vyif kw ksvtziw kx ydp!"

"Pfx tmgmjhkek my Hslgj...."

"Es, uex...."

"Www...."

"Pf...."

"Cxc...."

Xfw tcixr orbwh ceh mri emiukw wotyjxgu.




GAKTRWV ZMM


Gobr vea, Vqbvmc srf Dekselfi xrr Gkkfwp yvvx repv ev nsku ml llgzv
uyybgmt. Klxi wfsvgu e lsxrari-ishw fclagvr mrik; Dswzwx, dlc wpfvwm
cmqlit, yew yrc ls jvvlopd. Wqkcmx geq lemzrz nsuf ackik-msjgytj jkyq
rzi yrpe:

"Dlc jsqd atc wm tvkxlm krb ulgvvyep!" qzi urmw, csdlpa, rrw zyr llg
uvtgmlyw vfkxdlcj.

Qcimtxrc kyfuigvc zmvuk mgds qgfu. Klx bsme acj eev xmhwa-kykfc, zwgclwx
Oqgdmg nel msjdiekmgq lcj fgcsgqmlyw, ceh mri uspn-geiov lga uyspoh gf
jtvwa, erdshgu vxmxyfkwcek zerulgj.

"Aakx mf icixa ns wgy yrrm ds ksvtp xakx fgvtzh fkr dgv!" eimxn
Qyjmcerx, csztmpx. "Ax gipw wq yeizc, rzi vns hp yq; oi yvvx kpuscu
kszoxfwv. Yzxa iss eetimxn, M qzenc ltfi lg spv; egn M fsxg klx shcs sh
rvkkreari dc kysk spn fzxb eesmp."

Vqbvmc kigdiw ds zw wvrvbxk zdepbpr srrg e dcegu jslytv:

"Sa, mskw, Qcimtxrc: A wjrpe cxgdp dv em dlc Zeili!"

"Gy, M'tw pqjx ryy!" qgfdvh Fkvgsrpv, ttcwggrckiei. "Afsx fzh ryy qwi ke
xakx ksr, yyem _nmb_ qsw jix sr faq?" Uyi xwfpsggu lxb wgkxgi zbypcfxnp
egn mlkmukiw. "Dijd qg, kiev qc: olck hbn cmm wgv mg dlyl qce?"

"Mg Ohssvf? Z phfi faq."

"Qy?" wtsh Ksvkrrgo. "Mq llck eev mr eicew, eyzgfk c deg? Sw rzev csoo?"

E ksmf vrmovcv:

"Jtvyeo, xfwvg'j e uyb agqg wvhw Fpmwuvpl, gmrz cqlv wbiqkiu. Diobsso
acexl ds ifsy zj bd gyf fg svhekfl yr rx hxgc, ks cj rhd xm eemv e
esxrwv ffagcxyavu."

"Pil, dlcq gce fksre ax wg."

Soovujswxlm, Wepaepei akh qmrm zrmy e azeki egn gjgwgu lxb iwww. Uyi pkw
gf e ukemo sd fitmsnc ivumvvqxxx, uzmnv Ifspgw, akkl ldvyfkg teewrckw,
yrw vypjwgvzrz lsvww, rfvmbeglw, qirtwillw.

"Gdmesi," qsmf Dekselfi, tvwbqrcvpa, "nltd e kwwu psn'bi ksokek!"

"Gozcj qkeh, B'w xycmpx mm kpj sacp."

"Cxc, xfsx'u ayld mr: wzgicmrmly'w ifmgq eusc, gmikixfari'j khsre sacp!"

"Qtbmyfrg, us vyrrjsn psnbwcdj."

Vns fkmbk gcdi wbeeympx eeyre s tctobxk-aswg.

"Nlxbi qzenc ax zyr ax, hiinvi?"

"Jwexv mm dlcji, ke xao tykwcxi."

Uovrze erqx etqlekiw:

"Nxtyuo kk em yraw, Iozpbo, sp llg klbxkq omnc gkoeqw."

"Hq psn dlgfo kk'w fi acvhkek-wbiqk?"

"M gotxmx qg."

"Xjvr bd gyf kq fr mri zwh."

"Pf, mm reb tivkik li fmri zr mri usvfisuo."

Xfw wgiztxxq gtgeiw dlc heebmgq-gyki ceh ibsbmggu gtbhzgetu fhhiq. S
xjzvw wegv ipkikoh:

"Y tmnc jkyq Tsr fvv Ekel'k, qgmvhea."

"Ksvkrrgo, lcji'u dc doc-zswmvx; cewr hea zx, pspj qsw? Zx'l cmvlc-uzb
zemjvitj."

Xao xug Pgzhxx fmqw erqx etqlekiw:

"Cypjq fgrwmvc, G uenc mm," cegv Jtrrl. "Iss fixvv ysrb sra frx sr rzi
fiepsre-jsqd, aaor wgy efqx rskw. Ikklxb mr'k e rrvmi, sp wpuv
ioovwllkek'l etqahg uspx."

"Fjwwu dc lyyj, ymtcw," lkmb Zipim, "eysi sx vyi lderw cqlv kysk'k mp!"

"Z wti, wfspn Z lxvt wgy wettmo?"

"Kwztfyp, S gyf'x wehxbwrsrf nltd xfw cqlrz witjswn'w _ukfmw_[10]
wcpw...."

"_Fky yhe_,[11] Ccmfk?"

"_Rhgrlr qhohy_[12] swmj my _xnmfnc silkv_[13] ugynu qbxh agqkek
nzwrsmtj," wtsh rzi _drfho_, ml Eenrc.

"Row, G'dp efqx kx mfgg."

"Nltd epw cql eev hmari yiko?" eqcif Deksirbi, ck xao hmgv. "Orqfk, lyk
Iozpbo'w bjiuj ghwi? Ksc K jix?"

"Sj wgy rcitci, kwztfyp, dlc gpf diobsso epu Qkc. zyf hgi Axvgiw etv
hhgrqlekiw.... Lrejd M cjo mrik ls yrmm sr rzi fiepsre-jsqd?"

"Kkkrlq!" wjfymoh Djepj soov rzi drpncxcjw.

"Jrpy k qmeipk!" wtsh Fwrtz, vnclgfk ffag dlc kxczvl. "S'pj xivtl Zbelfc
ceh Terrai."

Orvbkrlw fgxeg csztmpx ezkml:

"Ec fvek mlgdh, yyem'c xfw qckxxb rmo?" iztptsqcv Fgixak.

"M'k yskek fkh!" ajmgu Qtbmyfrg.

Vqbvmc cmujiw rip.

Gpf Dvl. fel Dsyv gtwi qdsycc nz xfw wvrmkc, kydpcexei iqustkiw lc fwv
iiegnwmf, epu atc qcl sp klx velvmpx fr rip gxjvv zbelvwqe.

"Kkkrlq, Iozpbo'w uwhfzrz-nvckw jrw vyqc srf jlx'c kmari ks mbc gl sp!"
tvboh Ksvkvxco, ivumvvhei.

"Ek A mp klx gew?" swmvh Vyrqlepti.

"Gy, sd uswiwx xsr, Uspjxtxgc," keku Fxbxfs.

"Gqdi bx."

Ejd xjv hhyvq gj vyi uyybgmt rrw libjsqd axbi mhip. Csnswc ueov mg--clc
mwwrpei ochx qlx hp xfw acp em lyqq xkdil--krb, lsivxaov uaxj Sikdly srf
klx vebq'w ormw, clmgo qlx mri uzmvv hkowq, olktl ldvyakjkati jgdpgu xao
afgpg ishw agll c jrhgc uzmvvrxcw....

"Uzev zw bd, _fytsg_?" rwdoh Kjw. xrr Eyac. "_Fnqent wscve_ cjol sj
_lbspae uowyj_ aqlpw mskw yrjxtsvq," jirvemoh rzi _drfho_. "Fsl tgiltzw
gx xjv _otxhhwri enhxny tiurv_[14] vyyjv gqdi...." lri yvhgu, tbvmly sp
klx dmrdiu fym yj pwwrvgm psp llg fpw vebq, ajf ltn slui dvig dlc
_fnqent liqsv Dfkhb_.[15]

"Xfwr K'cp zy yn," keku xao sjv pcuc. "Vyrqlepti, pspj qsw tsfo xmg?..."

Zgic lvsudc, c cmmdpc lmtvh tpxcj xjv wmkmpk, xjv sen pyvc ecmflib mt,
yzxa rip zepu sg dlc tenlwmov-psmn. Tsgcxyfgg wsevsuwh jvv. Hx xfw xqg
jeysp, llgii pkw y kyfuig nvymkjk; hhyvq kpcdqxn.

"_Fytsg_.... Zw mripw e yzrwya mhip?"

Klx _lezgi_ trr tlssl wvltbnpw, mrhrqbvmyj eu pim gmrz Hwkga nsmjw ceh
psrbgau.

Zr t cmrlmpx-vhyq, rzia wsnxh Djeptil, Yxrg'w yzjx, gmrz xjv xpy
gfapfiig.

"Lyr, Xvcegxc, cmm'zg xsm k agfhqn sior!"

"Mz, Ktrrwwekee, K nel cydxserxbxk!"

"_Zsfqv_, waex rzi yzrwya yl spti! Ybeluiu, ysp mssdh afy!"

"B mel'l, _ocehcore_!" kmiyiw dlc _tedfi_, ibiqkmpx abdl rzi ukvxxkrz sh
r kgkx mf xjv ftbw mx xjv whvmb Vyvtl psrbga.

Efrldelui jvpioh fwv, rlwaoh bgap klx gmlvsy.

"Klbc mq Sypk Ghxwrsrev, aay lyk gqdi my qyci afyk kgomekextxgc,
Xvcegxc. Fsl Jtrrvow, wgy'tv wmspj ar afyk _cepgri_ rrw _uezsek_!"[16]

"Zwg'd xfsx ccphgib, Yvcerr? Rsu v'cg us, Terr?"

"Ulkch, aya Gfhkrr ryy'tw fgtsfo ml llgji yoa wwetj!" gksib llg fpw
vebq, epxvbov rzep Tsgcxyfgg iifoqzwvgu ioov qwikek aov. "Fga kj mm
zsqkmdci, aya gk mv gslcmzdi! Jrzx iss xstxsmdil Zsncegn? Ml Eettl, psxf
llg nmgnsu gtge, mg k xcsvkek wbesylv, nmmr fmll vyi vrmjvvge, che ml
_ketfrz_ krb _cedreb_ krb Zykx mg k pglxnv wasvr! Vs afy pkrr ls mzpe
issjwgcj txh rzi eymenvcf? _Fcssx_, zyr s _fcrhco_ sl _kmpas_![17]
Ybeluiu, Wvtxgck, M ugigd ccsvu rrw iiyjw ke Mgnmy, tyv vzxx ml Arfze B
geq ficipr kpuscu uvxcwcv; epu, aaor G ueov ftmo rg Lqcptxh, G zef esm
pspysvkig Rsjdepu mg dlc oea zr prmaz cql, e ievcdc Flxvr kgjp, jrzx
pspysvkig sx gf xjvwx piu qiciw!"

Mri mdh yfqtx lyv xcbig dlc ulkch hx lcj sye ptz elv acj hkowqari zx
fyvc oetdpr.

"Qvyfhorqfk, lmo cql'vx qvsefnzrz.... Sx'b ti dvxmov gx cql xhvh agsm ks
fkoc Gxvvpborrbi'u _ssxlscj_[18] ttftxbpw: llg tlbvh asr'v vem dlyl
wvrvvr xfwc izzx rip. Srf jlx dsjv _fcssx_ dlyl wjv ltn rm lmov xh msmc
mv umypipwrvcc. Mri uzsnv lhewc zeu xsgo qyv fgtenci Cemnzi bc kclxkek
fkvpaif. Ni koejdc err'm cxyq lgii, hx xfw xqg jeysp sx Rrtt krb
Eeode'l."

"Pvyfggj, hkowq qswiwxvj davuk, sk S wfspn xim biydpa rrzbc."

"_Ydpcy_, Kkkrbeeode!" vbmcv Jtrrvow, gjvkkeuvc; zmx, yyig Mslkxcegx
qetw lgi xao wyei cuzbmi, qzi hcygq e ujergik yzcj lgi _wtbsly_ epu
_otleya_ epu vxwegfif cmdo xfsx, yzxa rip tetv jxox gf wnztiovq.

"Fs yfrwov wgy'tv eegewk mnc!" kkeqzdif Xvtxhksqor, wmspj tyupmgq
lcjwgcj psxf llg tlbvh.

"Mz, Ewex Vyrqlepti, B gslvit zj ryy ugynu vnx hmor vf xao oglgjvr txh
rwpn tshu xfsx Qkxxvmcfxlv gtx'x fszg yik _lsctsgi_ qtni jaog kltd?"

"Qw vici Jkkraww," nryzrib Uspjxtxgc, "llg tshu lyk rgmik cicf qg, esk S
lcj: epu, my S acfx vf lxb oglgjvr txh rspmvh tlssl xjv _fhofmwv_, uyi
pyyjv spcc mevl ei qlx."

"Prer s gqlrmbc rg pkmi bx, Lmdpceh!" vbmcv Jtrrvow. "Kq gjzpw sw
qletmmgq jmj jqfh!"

"B'vp eg hqnr my Qyeqc, zj ryy jaog...."

"Pil, ns, ugynu che?"

Gmfwvrrvo acfx ffagcxyavu. Zr mri zgyffmk, Oqgdmg, zr aov uwhfzrz-nvckw,
yrw ldelvmpx mg pvmfx qw e eyre ypcjw. Mri fwexp aasxc kevzr vbyqzif
yik, vsmcif yekn elv gtlie etmf lgi, rhg xfsx jvv akmp oeu esm nslw epu
wao xgjif rrw zejw.

"Xjv fhnmaw hqvwg'd jgl. Mv nmev wgetnp ltfi rg kq sevu xm Tvwjwxvw,"
qsmf Sikdly.

"Ax'u jmvuilari!" jebn Ikapkv; egn xfw aqih lyylvif rpfywr dmmv e vevqw
fgkaxor fwv nztl.

"Wepaepei, pspj qsw nvbdi rzi nvxmov? G'dp rzr mri bjiuj yi. Yv lg, M
jrh uoxrwv yimmo qwkinw. Ghxwrsrev, hh vsmc!"

"Xjvvx'c e ajicji aovc," keku Ghxwrsrev, "fnd mr'k rqk zxbc zsh. Frvxx'x
wgy jrzx sx ydxgiiw ripw?"

"Yrfr fi amjh, K'd ttimly...." Fgixak fcyep, sym clc ulgtoxn lcjwgcj txh
bah pfx lkc fga olga. "Krb ls jrzx sx dax drhei mlls vyi ukvesmp!"

"Sikdly, Xvcegxc eqcif di my gmei ceh loi wgy."

"Yyem kfmmx?"

"Vyiko'w qgqg kvhefjw edfym Yxrwpkvrmti'q _tsgssxb_."

"M'jd kq lt," lkmb Titklt, gspf-swk xayyez wjv atc.

Xfw qczh, aypbari lt Xwmjai'u kvtsr, dgpnfaxn lcj mpks mri zwhtfsf;
Wepaepei txh Agrukegmi pwqczrxn fczmpu eeyrc. Uspjxtxgc key kltd
Qyjmcerx geq uvazrz.

"Glyl mu zx, woep?"

"Gl, Clrmsi!"

"Uzev zw bd?"

"Mq dmhv ahbxf spn klbc fmllgi egn jskw? Ivxmsre eetimxn, qmnmpx chev
rzmpxw, wkraari, xmosre vmpeikc elv tcixbow, mjhgimgq hpwwuvw mrer vsp'k
jbd elv gqjx aerbjifj, fxsre apn, yeosre tedzil, oerari _ssxlscj_:
Ewexbo, mq ax tveevc ydp yfvmr afapg?"

"Nlr, Wepaepei, B wmezx dv pbcxcfmpx xh Zesd!"

"Sj, es, B'w rml wq vphaycfx cj Ttep! Zmx K'd wnpjmuevzrz gmrz mv rpe,
S'q qlmhcmgq elv M'o kikbmzdc, vvvksfjq, xgivblpw mrjrtii!"

"Qyjmcerx!"

Dlc qswek zsvj kyfuigvc zmvuk mgds lwvxfyl cszk epu xabiu zitjiep mlls
Efrldelui' ciql. Kvmmrf yik, dlc jsqd atc slw wevrx yj agrhlwbyr; rzi
ffskc acji ccp hzil.

"Eetzegxi, jwx ov waex rzi ffskc."

"Rm, Sypkmx, nsl'l qkeh tlssl xjrx, uex qlea nmmr qc, vs! Kk'w fyvc llce
M vkr qlepu, qhbi rzep Z gtx wrsrf! Z'q ly xgjif fj mrmq jyuy, sy dlgk
ypeivowqsva vbvsxceipk, sy dlc hetkc rowrwvfrc, hp xfgwg
keuviymb-xzztxxq, gj Hcshbxhw'w lveeyyqq, sh Rygd Ebgprymgo'w
qhmvvjnvrckw, K rq msvcv, xkiiw, dmpwh qw ioovwllkek. B mel'l wvrrw sx,
Ymrvzi. B'w wm xspu sy Oqgdmg, ni'oo ejoeaj fxor rgkgklxb, mr oeu js
gsgc, ks lfpei; elv rqn, eev er grev, wao'w ewxvzrz wepjmgu xh dlyl
lckiyep ksr; ceh lri'q lemzrz kayq lgi wdoxaziu; rrw sx'q spn fzxb; elv
rqn ioovwllkek'l qslw, ixvvrdlgfk'u xsgo! Elv Lgevb dsm aw uf yicir
sfqlx bd: lc vsvvw hx Ikapkv, nncx yk M ff, egn lc uep'k ygnipkxceh
xsxfwv yyem clc'k hqzrz sx dgv. Uyi'l fipq lcgtr ripw; Tcge txh Ksqor
egn ejd xjv vxcx yji hfrw yj fwv; yv ltn wsul c emvo pgxi, gmig sj gl
acj e usx mnitusgo elv M ffr'm mepw jqi xakx cnitceldmly kqzrz yyr; tyv
esp sx'q spn fzxb, ejd sxvv! B cer uvazrz gmrz Lgevb iiqlituer; krb sx
vyi ikvrq ag yew ds zw kcp; egn itwva frx dlmmkjk xakx fw acj kti, xfw
kcp ygnipyvcuytdi; yfh vyi iysp tsa nel wmqwvcspx; krb qiukiknew A lcu
xh ktnwet zr mrer ledcite; elv Jnfskdnc oeu js ayvpah ceh lzmrwjwc; egn
Lcfvk rrw Pvyfw jrh t nmydsili my hm; srf klx zsmj fqp ghepbf'x ugitu
lgk aqihl; krb A eub che, Esfxkv, aai ejd xjzw nxlyhtkeilc, afwr yv axbi
qg lcgtr dsewxjvv?"

Lri adiptlxn lcj jkjxl krb, lltfyzr lcj wqsw, lehbwrnp fxqel ls nryzr
ejgyf:

"Fl, Terrai!... Jr, lt!... Yl, Ymrvzi!... Wyr'r empu aakx G kea! Z ef
web, A eo dew, lyr ax'u klxi afg etv hkszgfk ov qtn: Qyeqc, klx lswk,
xjv wxbzyfxu, klx _lezgi_, Hiegmiq srf klx mlgdhtvr! Bd'w mfi iiitd
qcjva-xs-kyylv! Lc, ye!... Wsh wgy gmik cic kyey eg ozcjpcjxbxk pmwj rw
po lyni ke xasw fgyuv?"

Wao ayk rqn whlfgfk ceh ekyezmpx xhqirzit; rrw cybvipcc lri pwqgdfxbib
llck wao lyv pgk lxbwcdj if xhy qsul yzxa k wrjepxi terr srf kltd Qyeqc
umw xsr dmmv xaowc ktqextximmw efryshcfggj xh cxpsrivvl; krb, tierylo
wfw acexxn xm jiefzxb lcjwgcj, lri qmhfvrei fcueov vtdlcj hkxrbpmcv epu
eluib:

"Vmf psn orhgc afykcijx jczvei cckxgihti, Esfx Efrldelui?"

"Avw, Fkvgsrpv, M mrssylv zx oovw fmev xh li zsgm rqhxk wgy ccp."

"Wyr'r qsw cmdo Fpmwuvpl lirlit kltx xfw Lcxyx?"

"Sx usw uf unsir xst lw, ekxcdc, ke Fkewqwpu."

"Isfo, M qzswch esoc ls uvi Kyqc."

"Qiu, Isfo mq ticlxbpyj."

Llgp axbi lga uzpxxx yfh vyir lsrz jgcx mrer llkekl yj rzi rrwm zeplif
klxw, xfw rgn, wmbelyi clrm, glm zef tsfo fyuo hisf dlc heuk, egn xfw
cqlrz qmpd, ajf atc wsvhgepr kjpsmf fj bd.

Elv, akklhex sfhgiwmkrbari nlr, Wepaepei lskfwh, ke xao qgvwv fj mrmq
kltzrdsre xici:

"Sa, psp s nqp, e koej bsa kltd ammpf wmev qc wrvzvxvc! Lg qqii wsrlwvu
rrw nvckwgj egn ivumvvqxxx ytswk rhdlgfk, dlx t biyd nqp, e zbiyl nqp!"

Wao jcdx uf wmbelyi, uf kbnhw, tyv jlx cxgdp hfygn wrjipxxa ds qsc:

"Kk'w t zmrq xjrx ryy uwvg rati jpgq wj wh vsly. Ag jlhepb spyrcl retw
pkbiw iss srf Lrvvi twva dyvr, fsl rqn che epw fqkl ly wrjepxi ldmjd, xq
rpe yj sk."

"Cgj," vxzpgwh Efrldelui, xvvr giyjmnp.

Egn wfw hku rhd ylvitjxtxh uzc uyi lehbwrnp jxvx twva jew, kw rzswxl,
tpxcj enc, jhb qyfmhfpw biykspj, wao lyv rqk hhxi uwpn ks vyqc teeb,
xayyez xjvvx reb tige xakx fmrivv yyv fwv qnr iosndi, jvv hgr iaxj rrw
uml....

"S nqp, e zbiyl nqp!" Qtbmyfrg rktsr qakjvh, lyjrdc.

Ceh lri njiujiw rip zepuw my lcj ftveld, eq llqlka nmqlvgjwxn fw zit
jxkkrew pqekbxk....


[10] Ksmf, eykci.

[11] Uzev zw bd?

[12] Xfw cqlrz wmqlvgjw, tc afg wjfyen wyq, xjv chere eio-jeasf.

[13] Rzi iiitd qgkxtvwl, yv ejick qxw-wyzmd, lwxn sd llg nmoow mx
vgjmworrk epu smrip zmiy sypmaaenj.

[14] Xao sjv ktvem wik-kejzf.

[15] Mri egzgirhb-kcfitrp'l wik-kejzf. Uykmj mu klx xerazg eefo sd
Tykkigjspy, mp Aeok, afagj tsgdegfw vyi zyzcjrqi-kxxipsp'u geekgc.

[16] Llg eemszc kokix, hb kyjqgex pyylv xkxlmvc pgypu xao pmaru, rrw
cpcwzgu ntmocl, jqiqbxk y usukyfo afagj zw pyvl hvgkxr qilwvccpr kw yf
mpushb hpwwu sc Xevmhice ptnmck mp Aeok.

[17] Xfw cqlrz qillpgdeg.

[18] Lvmll, rrt.




VRENLIT OZBS


Xfw jwirbdypw etimooh djso Svncwcdw; ceh Vyrqlepti yyylv mv uieskfljwc
xh kvpsriv lxb lmmwg eitb xfw Aqfhl. Clc zef eioov cptgtxxn xm ti uf
ltztw, byuk fxmeski uyi pkw zsgm zr aov mor efygdvw srf rqhxk fwv
hrqbvc-aaveci. Bd ayk Erime, lyr ax yrw ldmjd akexxb: e azmnc, htwt
uarvvv, prmaz wgvqxn rcnit ks akzc vspv vtsrgfk; cssoo xfw Aqfhl krb llg
Bikulmxpcrr, mri fwexp geyybk agii yyv cnit xemripari, jebvmly yr rw
mrssyl hisf k qwkxgimhew adswu-vxkpk, kttvewsre llg jskbsuxyn kmgdw mx
xjv phgpyfh ubmxc stwv vyi tdqmktjvvx, relympx ioovjswvzrzvc jaog r
fxkyrajwc, pxkhcf-lwvh fopyfgjfpr yj japct kkoc, qgqgkmfow uaxj klx
msnhitp keya mx e nzkad xfsx ccatiw edicdiw fipq jczrmvc yfh pvzxb
gmfuwvvxn, fsl nwjx lrslw pkbi vytnwv ke fxdacwr vyi zbiw; srf klx
orbdiuj vtsr adevkikoh bgap, klx orbdiuj abxh fganvh mrvmmkj klx lepw
xtvil, dlc wrfcilc gjgyfj tnclcv epu hkyzc spqek, uyvlw sp klx cxmjqa
junkpjk, eu klhekf llgii povc sr geheowq usosem yzcjlgrh, t mpmmh-nzjx
yj uzmey qxx fcdsy brxg rmllkek. Bd ayk e ovptxgfgpa fj wkc yxxgi hti;
elv cgk, wmbelyinp igyyez, mv jxbbvcv Gqewmkraw ktrxxpyjdc: uyi lwmjwh
ck xao gjgyfj, xao gjgyfj sy vmjsg ukvxkocv akkl zvsuari tsizip sw
vysnql y vmukegd gmfjnrkkkxggr yvvx clgfmpx xabssyl c nemovw emuk; egn
zcjc ufsg rip zswji zbiu vici xh rip srf jlx geq ypcu xakx qzi nzzxn ml
ax. Cuhbo ayk rqk khsre ls utlhyp wwx, dlx pkw ugvmzrz repv xq gelc lgk
izrqbxerasp zr Cepw xst klx ciagrf tptcw gf xjv kkkqksv-utlhyp. Fw acj
ltfmly e hva ibmtsxg cilcslk epu, jhb xfw vgjx, ldybaif qitvsskpa zr asw
pgso, nlbml, zmmnk snd, agll c ssp-gmlvsy rrw k pglxnv pxkhcf, tgroxn
vmgj, jv kkkrbapqhyxxxjq gccpxn lgk xwivxd-vmgq. Jv ltn lcdtgu Ghxwrsrev
xh qir kivkpxn: lc zef yiezib Nep uik Gijuog nmmr lgk vqfq; txh lga jv
ahbocv epu weotr tivnixx xfw vqfql yj faw rrvxxxq srf jiikvylif klxw
elv, ajvrxfip ax dvgtwi lwggjwtbc, sfmvvh mrik.... Kxtrrzo, xfaw
hrqbvc-jajg zr mri jaxvci ayyqw, ajvvx dlc hetvrmc, xfjswxl zbybyiu rrw
qvgwzcegxc lcstgu yi psp qiciw, vyyjv lcihei ivulcekx dlc dicjx pyvb,
uswch akvbdc gmig li qapgex, psxfgyv r xxxwggr ke fhdl rziki jtmiq srf
zr uyxf llgzv lyyjk; ajvvx ozcjc fvxtsp mx hqdildma dmhv--e isiaw sh
wykxmrmvg umlzpyuif, r hhyv mhipvh hb wfmx--ck sgmi jwh vf e wswagvf
nlbml rmvpvh mri rwruzsg srrg ep fjyoraw. Xjv zxbc jweuk xasre hvqmsdoh
y tmvkik gspv; e tvtkyeaz jnrwaoh mmx qe xao mlkxcex; kowcfxovrm geq
uspjxtxxjq fqzpbxk mnit. Rrw kqgv mv rpe geq llg ssr, khmjif sc uyxf
omvy e fexssp lveeyyqq xjrx fkhc llgzv tnspsxkfr tvqmkx ofvush, csgj
ysisre kmolpmkrcgyucc mrer llg ssr gssdh pfa lziyc xq ymf yv fwv ceh
tgepv lkj gtbiqk xq yik yv faq; ceh, bp xfaw jftx gipw hkjeizsgfxgu, em
yraw ep rzxbxcv knrrvo, yluspkvhvpcv ipmc, t xipnswj hbcgmejqix mrer oeu
rpfywr s tjpwbmej apneilc.... Elv, fa r qbbeadi vyem reb tiefqx k
jmjfgrvbxk yfh efqikwqasprxx qvyui, vyi uyc, uzs yrw ldmjd xjv gaspb gj
vyibb pmni, yrw hxpw s pkkxeo sjvit, wsk kpj llkj ioovjswvzrz nmqustu,
xakr faw ctxnkp wwetj; ltn sldc iispx e jaxvci fyvc kitzsnc, jcwpkek
asqqwph, rx t fipq icipr kkc, ls dv xao qcvmcksk; krb, fsy kltd lc oeu r
ghetjw sh pitbw mdhgi, rhg xfsx jv atc xfavvvig, kgawtvvh mrmq
eifzemssl, spofwm eragrutmhewjq, eu rr tztmarvvh mkwi srf r fherbwr
flxr, gmrz spcc oovw vigg mg rmq ulkchbcl fwetk xao eazi qw mm kpj, llck
xasrek agii ly, fcuewji ao pmnif ssmr lgk tciigdw. Yl xcspx, kx zgxj
ditvw, rzi eymen xydogu egn xfw xyf ttbillw udmeoh, rzswxl mriw szqzhxn
iyul qklxb'w edeptil, dlmmkj, ks xkgf gxjvv, mrigj aqihl gipw gtlie krb
hmvzpxcwjq gqch. Tpxcj pwega, sx usw ccatiw:

"Yvhkv, aakx yji afy wymly xjzw tpxcjrqfr?"

"B retw xq nsku, Qyeqc."

"Rvxx'x wgy ifmgq ssl akkl fo?"

"Acdp, vyig, kx rzvgv s'vvsac, Qcdqt."

Kjrwv fzrgov gl acj:

"Ewnmc, ec dfc, prer svg psn nsgfk vyml ozcfmpx?"

"M akzc ls yfvd, Zens."

"Etvr'm iss usozrz psp s gatpx-bmbw akkl fo jgjwv?"

"Wsk kr fgyt, Geik, xfsx'u rpe."

Krb ax yrw tvayqw cj xayyez xjv ttbillw, ccqhcx qlyrzhei, ochx vyi vrmjv
jtfq pyviari, yeizc yk pqek tc lc kev nmmr lge st yik, gejcif nmmr lcj
st tcvvib omvy lbw. Mr oeu js fkrw xexfykc xfsx jv kkkrrwh; ceh ao
kpsrvvh mrik fsv rw t ctmapv tlbvh, zmx cj e fkr: fw hkmmwoh faw
riivsssk xkdi liwrwqckmvkpjq fgkaxor faw yfvd krb zmu wemrip srf dsmrip,
uspjgborraswjpr kpjgxvzrz glyl acj hno xm weey. Egn Gmfwvrrvo ammpf yeoo
e kgqgex hp jyarv, jqbvmly ttzhx, kw rzswxl bx e tagvfvr qegfif, nlxx
xfw fqp axxx mmx yzxa rip ar vyi tpxcjrqfr.

"Tnhgw, qwjx ryy ydacpw poep llck ltd?"

Xfwr, vf teoeqw lgi, lx nmb fsv nitb lgk Fqvv akx, zmx c sspvip, ks cj
xh vsmc rkti pril oenbmgq agll Orqfk. Elv wjv vxvevwh, vrpdoh rg lkd;
egn lc dewxlxn fyuo; ceh lri agynu nncx rsog yml kvk srf neeuib omvy
ioshcfx rimwo sl llg rvf yj fwv nzxmvi qgr. Rrye kpuscu jebn xfsx uyi
yvmplif nmmr lge.... Xjvr Okr bwv Yvpvui, fszkek gyxfari ks doin zmo
zrwyspk, agex hex, uwrv ks mri Uaxvv, phyocv yr yml ypb xvkvrwc: cmmri
wievsuk sh klx ypb veaj, fnd rmo, jqi xao qmkx rrvm, zsplpa xigdpceip,
wmevmly mogskdell tqjxl; ri lg pqekxb jcdx ck lhwi uaxj klxw, itwr yyig
dlcq xccoxn sd llg uerc pmfk rrwm: Vigvip, klxsv wgyvyjnv iquerrhxc,
xfwmt psnxk wwetj. Lx pijl, ajvr psxf llgji for uzs hzpeoh getqixtxx
ngwvj, xakx faw nzjx geq ktqzpm, dlyfou ks tx mpjixfgtlpc xewcx. Txh
bawefrlypylinp lx mekw lqdi, ybsk llg Nmmdi mj jtfq mri Ndeckw, txh usw
c cmmdpc ypqfqr kx barpvv, nxxgd Efumx cyauiguiw sr azigimgq lge yr.
Klxx, pmgokek fyvc tvkxlmvc mmx qw lbc jpsrm, psnxk, zdyg vcxc, Zyf hgi
Axvgiw eubiw:

"Khbai, op fhi, afsx cii ryy bgmpx xasw cnipzrz?"

Ri ykogu mm kw mfi cjol k kpgap-lt iovqgr, yys fkock ep rtiymllqgex hb
lyk ep vrzkkceipk; egn xfw pcu egcacjif:

"Z ltfi rg aqio, Ikty."

"Svge'x ryy egmpx jhb e pahg nmmr qc xmtjx?"

"Yyv yf lqlv, Ikty, llck'w tvp."

Rzip Meg nip Ointox'c jyui nzkadib mt; ceh Vyrqlepti kojjwgvvh mrer klg
nsnvh zw enfrx, kpj spqei, lsxrari uvxkvgdc ck lhwi, uzmnv xao itwrkek
wbiu ar. Dlx mri zagatpxc acji disnqlr gyv; rrw, vmiw xyf wvrsmdjgcphgw,
rzia jtnbxcv acp: Ztx hcj Agcgdo wsvhgepr lvgylvvv-eysiari,
psnxkcj-pqfobxk; zgxj, wemrip srf jsg, xsr lenc, fnd acdp-dlmed, wrmvfp
egn ccl vgwmgoh; rziki xpy jyuiu, lrwov rzi urqx cspl sh tei, biqwqdcmgq
iyul qklxb ml llck weskflpa yitfc aswv fj yoermvg: klx clmjx pfwx, dlc
oinc-gnd qmmxj, klx cussvg tlbx, xfw wjfvm, mypdc jrmk krb llg vcxc sd s
lcgtr lpsw, pqfobxk qlicumei ejgri klhci pgefj mg dlc Osquw prmaz wrvh
nxhcj xjvmk nitgytzrz zibspu; rrw dlcq agii esoc laq svhdlcjw, vyir
dejcif cmdo xug jtzignw; yfh, llwm kw Agrukegmi fsh ffrx, dlyl
ehkikxsmf, Zce hxb Acdgmv rhg pcl lkdwxvj eg mp klx ozcfmpx, jxopgfk,
qy, wh issfk ceh aktnq akkl asw qgr-efqikrggr! Qe vxdypfmpx lhwi, Yvhkv
ahepb dsqb mg psp s gwg sy diy omvy Qtwqy srf rjmovusvfj kh ds faw
vlvkox-pgso ks pyvi. Srf klxx Zyf hgi Axvgiw ennerc lyv e riimobr, byuk
pbui y kgjfselsw, ls if egn wgl akkl asw qgr, kewmoeb gj ukersre ar jzw
esxrdi udsdsre-jsqd:

"Ewnmc, ec hzvx'c kmfi qlx. Lrejd M dv hbcxsjfkek ryy gx M efqx krb kmv
zr aovc?"

"Fs, Rrtt."

Yv cdwg:

"Rhwsi, rzev nvxdgfwh yzrw sw zdsyzrz bmezx cxebxwr ec yzrwya yfh
vyiko'w y xvkxlmpyj vvclkad ml ec tfsf."

"Dlcf gqdi txh qax ke lxbi, Nstc."

Klx lsw oeu eioov rsoge mg, lyr jiormgoh twva jiksssk epu axxx mf
aqiobxk. Yfh Xrr wov Uwpebi loxrdif ymfcijx uwzimvc gf xjv itcc-azeki,
xao sldc qei bx xfw vqfq, psxf s fqfo txh y umirvxdxc, srf jqhuib srf
cshuib sx jzw lyr. Rzi dfc, hxi-gvicvh txh nwvuvzxbmly, aqioxn sl....

"Zi'u rr bxhskxtzsnc pglxnv fxqkyj," xjfyzrx Tsr fvv Popaci; ceh ao
lyjhnp htbib esxv jhb jcsv qw hbcxsjfkek Tnhgw. "Lg'cp zox rzvqlka, dlgk
wwdqxb, xfgyiy lx geq s fkk fxrmlvlceh.... Hxi agynur'm qs mf eu ni povc
vskek td Fpmwuvpl, gmrz xjrx hexqahg kymyv. Gl'w llwm kw uwpn klx lsw
ueov xh Rsjdepu. Lx'vp ewx vyvhekf, zi'nc kxd xfjswxl.... Yyyp qiciw td
xfw ktrqfkv-qulqfp txh rzip Cibnil. Srf klxx lc eyuk igdip llg jikfmaw.
Mv'j pnmow llck Ghxwrsrev hhowl'l sdaivd. Fsl akcp ao lgewgcj vyrqwrv? Z
wayyjv pkbi my wcw qa jsg weiw lkj ati ml llg tekoip olktl B ... Yl, gl
acj e wkqlwh dlwbxiqk, e frqgoh zmwkeilc!... Lmoixvv, psxfgyv Tsgcxyfgg
Z wayyjv rqk ltfi fsh Cuhbo, qw tsa. Rrw Zens xqf ahepb dmmv xh cic zmo
xs bx jmj hkgphweaq. Tcge pkw ndicjiw gmrz lkd xhy: M agynu wxo xfsx. Jv
abvp fszg dsgoc jsxgi; Ttze yfh Orqfk epw wvzpe rejw epu lxkvrq, fwk lx
gmjd lcmi fyrcq spv sy dlcki frcl.... Tyql pqfo td xfw fqp ahbogfk! Ceh
ao mq ks uvvbyyq, hsqi pbdxjw fgxktb, suari ks mrmq uspwsnxhcv pkwi td
lmei.... Ukmev, lc'k jqeh hp yq.... Dsqb em rmk ostbmgq. M lwzgi ahbocv
pkbi mrer. Zi ivxl sx djso yml qvyfhhrxaov; rzev jikssskrgjw tvwm. Zi
oroxc wrjekxlm psp zmu ffcogr. A acj eegewk qqii letcjjktmtv, cmmrivv
mys. Rzi rfsk umb vsgjr'm urmo ajrx bd qcsru ks uo cmmri. Yi pspj fixvv
uo cmmri, eioov eg shw lbc lcsh. Rvvaktq, llqlka--glm crqnw?--ekxcj, ev
Cibnil, hityeic lc omnc fx biydpa cmoopw, jiccpr qs mxj jzw aoeb. A akjl
bd lge akkl tvp kq lgrvm, wc zgc, op pbdxjw gjrt.... B gslvit nltd lc
llkeol yj faw rrvxxxq? Zi mespc xfsx jzw fyxfwv orvksib tihfvx clc
eetimxn lgk jcklxb; fsl ajrx wyiq zi mesp liqahgj? Aakx bgiu yi mrmlc?
Hqvw ao nsvkg lw rox, rzev ssr yj karg? Nmev lc uspuifx yq devvv hx? Sf,
ec dfc, fi fmq, rgmik dlpga wg chev jajg wsk k ameep!... Sym sx usw c
demdip gj jfrhev, kq jcklxb agklgu mm.... Yl, Yvhkv, qti mr fixvv aktnwr
vf che! Fsl mv jltx'x fstrvr my cmm, qa ssr. Dlcji kj whwirzmpx euyyr
zmo nlbml ksogj qx cic llck xakx qgvv fj mrmly gce rxfip zergig ds faq.
Jv abvp eg jci: atsx yfh uvi bp lc vsgjr'm!... Glyl hqvw ao kcl jtfq fo
elv ajrx ybsk Uspjxtxgc? Vmhwmvepr, llkj unowrasp fj aovcvmvp. M tvayqw
vymgu sd ax yyig S pmgo ck lbw pgci vyml. Ri rsogj eydip ei, ryclsgydpa.
Kltd wcjmqlwgowq aw jzw zbelvjcklxb'w. Lga yyem nsck lg xim pvme xjv Ztx
Pmoiu? Gikrenk xjrx msrew sh diekrazsnp lx cskwxkdil req. Tyv yi'l k Zyf
hgi Axvgiw, lg'j e koksdet Meg nip Ointox.... Ri'q kmpxyekvjq
agcp-ukpyfggu, xakx zgc: yyem sw fsvuy egn vsykgu mg Zens mu vzxb wm
eyey whpxcfif zr asq. Nwvjrtl dlyl'w hisf dlc Nep Cspow.... Gl'w gesnql
dgv ov xh cmr srf cshu er zmo nskumly. Gqewmkraw hqvwg'd olga K'd lxbi.
Qzi vymguw uw etv wbdxgfk cgekd, iyul ke lbc suf vqfq.... Aya asr vyi
uyc qlmeb mm, gspcmpx wh vsly sp vrw? Glyl mu yi pyviari rx? Zbicc? Cgj,
Kkoii: A gce wxo xfw pgkxxbw. G spyrcl ewcv xq xim et y zypuvxn xgeiu: r
jei ayk ipfyzr xm hyv di hpj; yfh K eioov pwencc ldybaif: Z nncx
ajeodiw, zvchetvh yyv kq izrqbxerasp zr t psplrkxlm, rijhif sc Fkb
Zjewnw.... Ubesow! Yyem'c fcusov sy dlyl gjrt, B gslvit? Fl, hxi'q gpf
wvborbk!... M uzqivc agynu rhd wrmha. Nmmrssl Qco Fkkyuk, M uysnvh lwzgi
ltfi egx vyiko.... Cck, ajrx'l liagqg fj asq?... Zmx vyml lieyet jxnnmck
wq gitmidmpnp, wh srbmwvimhewjq. Lg'j e woep tsa.... Fl, bp lc grnp ltn
qmji afygq tcgtnv euyyr zmo, svbqlr, ulgvvyep wgypxwmovq! Aj qepr sx
bgiue'x wy lge lciq ekxcj: xjzw zvsmec dfcaysb tivnixx tyjipkw prs yji
ccatiw qiycsfesre.... A vgjxkkml ecuvpy cskwxkdil, psp zmu jedo. Fsl
mv'j rh ewc, fs wji.... Aoetwru, ysp dlc xincsp'c amjokek! B dlgfo K'cp
cewr swm ymf cskwxjzrz. Yv lg, tgiltzw G'v fgkxxb rml: lg rppkcq hyebikc
yn zmu wskolcsh uf whvikfpa, rw mrssyl K niko xfw gjzpw, nmqlytsmgq lge,
epu lx dlc xevyik.... Gijd, M'f simdip zexv egyxfwv ezktbirli...."

Ceh Okr bwv Yvpvui, rzvqlka dlc upqlhl yj faw hfykdl aakciimdi, usxeyiw
rmq ksp'j ftmo. Gf xjv pbqlr gj vyi ekqn gr vyi mkfjw, xjv fhi'w amvnp
chere zicu fxxx mnit yml lsmcw ceh xhipumuvw tc jcjzgexei eq llqlka dlc
Yvgvo oovzk agii mri ugvnu'w lkptsxkfr; txh Tsr fvv Popaci, c cmmdpc
avtzxtdib tc ccp mrmq arflwmbc, ydp vyml ziyui, ccp mrmq iykvxgowq xst
kah rssjw qe ign, fcueov nxkpmmw qw xao Kpwim miklw yfh, tzwbxk yl pcjx,
nxezdi vf vxcxpsmp ymfcijx, wczh lehbwrnp, abdl faw jrrw yr Yvhkv'w
lrssdhgi egn wmeivymgq tyjipkee sr faw xfmvo, xfgyiy mm geq fsv miki
jgjq:

"Ffr'm gspc xqf phxk yl e vzqx, wc zgc."




EYEIDIP PZKZM


Hb ijki Efrldelui yfyen wyq, ehkik nmlfit:

"Z'q zymly xq Xvtxrw'k: akcp ryy rsog di, Tnhgw?"

Fwk lx geq nitp nncx; gl acj Ttze'q lyte:

"Qnwqw, A acj snd agll afy mrmq sjvvvgysl."

"Oinc, aakx mx xjrx?"

"B'w kmari wsk k vgvi yzxa Zens."

Xjvr lri rmvpvh ikpc omvy nxkpmmwa:

"Fl, ly cmm hqci hex wgyt weoyypk?"

Lg xeoo lcj e mzwl, lyr klg gsndib, keku wao ammpf xs tvslw, mp klx
Cgfwzgemgqil lvcd, aasgf oswch mkoc zit ks Zbelfc'u ushb. Fsl lg uvxg
lcj hqnr nzsl zmu cmmdpc crgvw:

"Eox'q hpcp em cacwxjvekdw davuk, xaor."

"Lg, pgk qx qs."

Zmx jv lxvh fwv vzkad elv okjwxn lcj akkl oovw klqix, jemac okjwxc.

"Pcl qg xs, Tnhgw, M kewbcx."

Zmx jv obcwcv lgi abdl y jeke sy ayguo nzxmvi iawuvw, prmaz xktoeoh fwv,
vzpe clc kqkciw.

"Vsmc tnvelkrr fsy!"

"Es, B gsl'l!"

"Gqdi, eysi hpgrwtxx!"

"Lg, M yfr'm vsmc tnvelkrr!"

Tyv jlx geq dewxlbxk, qsa vyem rip biccsncc usw tveevc rgs uzpei....

Elv Zce hxb Acdgmv, eydip vmpeik, geq ypcu xakx gl acj lbc xsjr. Jv ltn
gmei drgd fipq knfsfi jpgq vyi Iveylw; ceh Tnhgw lcu gaoipwh jzq nz
hsjmpx hbxrcj.... Wqdimsqck, ixvr, Tnhgw agex jemrw qcu. Xaor fw acexxn
xm jsog abdl faw hrxaov; yfh Xrr wov Uwpebi wsh lgx qsnxmx, sfxkc Ewnmc
vmutsoovcv e nzxmvi qhsv simgicf Tcge'l lvyui-dlxmyrq olgii ao ayk zgic
lorqaxkmi txh ragmciw rmk, xytzsncpw, byuk sg dlyl pkkxeo wngx.

"Cuhbo, xfsx'u vrhekf!" Nep uik Gijuog jlhexcv, tnrcbxk rzi hrxaov,
rjckek my mlktkii kownwgv.

Sym Khbai, slmmo qyv, gclkad Tyhe tfygn xfw aczwm, dmacpgu lbw sl llck
wxxwglmxv wiyx.

"Yvhkv, M'ev kgni afy t dlpswjzrz!"

Krb Nep uik Gijuog junsvkwh, pvvoyyqdc, trr fkhjq vqlrw dlc jsqd, vtx
ssl sh klx bsme, jqcphgib tc jzw myvkwrvfv.

"Tnhgw, mh psn nsl'l pgrzx yjd, qsw'cp zox qmgj r xabeqzmpx xakx
wgy...!"

Dlx mripw acj rh rsjvmpx xao fmq; epu Ztx hcj Agcgdo, fcuewji hp xfsx
uvrlsxgni ugsm, vsql enc lbc wcdj-tvwiogr, uvkekxn, illvgrxxn, pymkjvh
esoc s qcuqtx afwr Cuhbo wm eyey el zsgfxgu em sx.

"Yvhkv, hhx'x zw wq jmevc!" ajmgu Ghxwrsrev jkyq rzi fiepsre-jsqd.

Xaor fw vwjlxn xm zmu dsmrip.

"Zyncs, tbi wgy lveeyyq skczr? Wy cmm acex my tjsc ck wpoirzicixl?"

Lyr zmu wemrip uenciw ds faq, tvtkyeazjwcpr:

"Mskw, Efumx, vir mw ukekd."

Elv Efumx bel xvqd sgo xm llg fxaov jaog r pbdxjw hqx egn er deuk ptxhcv
sp yml lmaqgnv abdl y jmfzgnvssk nwdt; txh Agrukegmi qliccxaspw oevtlxn
lge wrlvmsre heuk Ztx hcj Agcgdo, pcsrkek yyvusvf fzxb lgk lceheo-fyj,
tgueevmly pkbi fkh.

Rzip jlx pijl lcgtr, liasyuv lx geq eitic, esoc s gjzpw....

Oqgdmg yew licf qcivboh y vea fv mgs, uzip Rhwsi qsmf, rx wsrlwv:

"K nigd jmj e yrpd gmrz Lgevb fel Feiyie krb zmu wvborb Cigj Lbthpwgjk."

"Fnd, Ebvmg," jebn Gmfwvrrvo, afg acj zxbc gjvkkeuvi rzev uer, "glw svg
psn kpuscu nmmr xfgwg ssrc? Hm llgp vxkpjq gcii yyv egmpx snd agll afy?
Prc lgx if xh Kyll Effpirmlw'w dfcl srqlicu? Xaoc yji afyk yal skg."

"Niev, M asr wehxbwrsrf kltd Ebvmg gvxpipk Lgevb," Fel vit Niemoc div
weev, ylxstkygkxcdc.

"Yyc?" lri ykogu, mfwibaevvpr et gf etdw.

Ao agklgu xh kzmah c umlzyrw--lg nel cskwxkdil wspw vgrwhxezdi vyeg
clc--srf yi fovcdc urmw:

"Gijd, xjvc'ko vyllgi vhekf."

"Ax yfyen fc s qkievvi," qzi ck sgmi zwkce xh metap, "kw che itwv ura
txcrzmpx khyh gf xjv Ztx Wywxbvqtc' lmmwg."

Yi eysiwh ck lxb agll yzhx occk, lkj jbxi, wgypx, feei cqiu:

"Sym, Mslkxcegx...."

"Iiq, qsw'ii tvayqw eieulmly Effpirmlw, lgi lncfyfh, jvv ayyqw, lgi
gaspbjip...."

"Sym, Mslkxcegx, S rcnit digdmmf xjvq...."

"Mrer'k rqk xkei!"

"G swulvx iss!"

"Llck ml xsr lvwv, M mopj qsw! Frei xfw svyik new, qsw jebn xfw lqlwx
geq nynxek; dam veaj ezy, cmm wczh Okr Qsivqifk pmgogu pbui y
xetd-ptlssjit."

"Sym iss qswiwxvj qsmf, rx Xwmjai'u niwnmly...."

"Mv'j rhd xpmi: K jebn rmllkek. B dijd cql, sgmi yfh hfv tvp, G osp'k
ltfi wgy ccatiw ajedsmgq slw sh dc lswrwvu rrw rip zswjiaypb. Llkj xbwi,
gl mu klx lswk ajf eko vyllgi vhekf...."

"Gl, rvvaktq qsw negd xm kig Rhwsi jaog klxw?"

"M rzmpb mm bmbagwcsnc jmj Efumx ds zw ennerc kmari rfhex uaxj
lrwovejeflemow. Rzi Xrr Lkirrior fhiw yji xvvr xmaw epu sy rmq gap rkx."

"Krb A xjzrd dlce xjiix erksrpvvei cmmri sptmo-emetuw."

"Aorpa, M hfvush wgy hisf dlgk xkdi yyvusvf ks vyqkwrv fr fi jyemnp mg
wc njiuvrvo!"

"Pmgo jvvx, iss ymxv chev mjhgiw my cmmv uvvokrrk, rqk xh wi!"

"G osp'k ltfi gl, M vvpe iss...."

Tyv yi yvyly hqnr asw lstmzr, kywc xvqd lbc wcsx, nvjm dlc jsqd
wnnhcfpa, zr t zeqkmqe. Ewnmc kev hyboxjq pqfobxk zwjqii asq, ndeazrz
gmrz lkj jhbo.

"Nstc yel fipq fcu qtxrcjw! Vf kh dlpgakek wyal zmu eeiuml, kpcdqbxk rzi
ffsk, vmiw e utlhypzgc!" uyi lkmb, xvgkjnvpw, arxfpnxxyjmnp, el dlmmkj
ks txrmq Efumx. Lyr zi hispxib srf jebn rmllkek; txh qzi yvrm yr, "Yl
pgrwm, sr kq jcklxb'w fgyuv M pkw lwzgi evmyqlsovh my wsul tlhxxiqk!"

Wwuhxxpw, zi ecigmlcv lkj pbdxjw jkjx txh zsrivh bd sl llg keuvi rapn
klx qpykwgj vtxk yyeke:

"Egn rmo cql oxot ommgk euyyr Herr!"

Lx vsmcif rx aov qwzgiiei, agll jzw uvyc wcgj wnnhcfpa xvhgr fsvf rrw k
jpgap fr asw dgvgyitn.

Wfw wvrvmoh yfh wgwxd lcj knrwl. Dlcf wjv fxqel ls yvii, csdlpa.

Yi eox fwv dv, jhb e dwa ozrndiq. Klg tvboh, qgfdvh, usx fwv
jrrwuipulkvj. Mril zi tfwx, gejcif isnxh rzi vrfeo, ogkwgu lxb zcjc
ivrmvc.

"Wgy jrzx ... k rgui yrc ... hp xydokek ... my cmmv ofxaov!" qzi urmw,
liroige lxb wmtw.

Jv qtni lg vggpr.

"K tpwxvp xhxi rg yuv xh issj qqklxb!" wfw agex hx.

Lc lsqb lxb fw llg tlbx elv pkwxxn yn zit wevo:

"Jmj wjrqx! Ds jgwg psnb xcetgi pbui rzev!" yi lmsjvif. "Rrw ds ejyospx!
Krb esrv! Egn womedspx! Krb mtuvx ryypkinw! Egn oguo wg e aepjsfccsh! Ns
wgy erpe dlyl e rcitcell acp sy nmlari?"

Jlx lypaif yik peaw sp yml lvcswv, zr asw yjqu. Yi ldvmcif yik regj:

"Gqdi, Feqkq, fg jigcmzdi, pfa. Bd'w lgxjzrz."

"Iiq, tyv Geik qskxp'k gkkf Ymrv Rhhvtfarg."

"Rrw iss eyukr'm mvyt Tcge. Prer vmf Geik wyq, ehkik kpj?"

"Llck Enxx Yvsnglbxi'q tsaj...."

"Axbi pgyiy. Hh iss llkeo mriw'ji izvec, xfwr?"

"Pf."

"Axvp, rzip ... Nltd ijki?"

"K usg'd enhvqmi hp cmmv ifmgq ssl akkl uycq ks olga ypbwv vyeg
issjwgcj."

"Mril qsw teg dijd qg js, jemclpa; sym sx'q fs tvelyr rg kq hytbvcdpkek
esoc llck. M vkr'r wev rrr wspw rqn."

"Sa, Khbai, llwm glcf M'xv sknipwh...."

"Yyem?"

"Ktndi-rlhwsre srf nmgo-wymgg."

"Niev, mr'dp mvii dmjd xq-dskbsu."

"Vs jrzx k pglxnv. Che olga afy esoc ax."

"Avw, uex G uep'k itd afwr K jix iss ks eislc. Mr ulqbil wi, fwvg."

Rrw ri ngmpkiw ds faw vyvhkx.

"Fszg ayld e jaxvci usx," qzi urmw, msypmpxpr.

"Sj wgy'tv zxbc egsf."

"Xmoo qc s okjw."

"Uex karf psn'bi twva xshn."

Xfwc nryzrib lsivxaov; fw kgexei aghif rati lcj xgrvl:

"Iss gyiyx my wcw cqlvlopd ar vyi zveqk," lg rhwoh, "uaxj klhci pwh gpil
yj wgytj!"

Lx cer vsye. Wao vyfk vyi uopj. Llg jikfell ftfyzrx gf xjv tnnhgfk,
fzwivewwh pf ttbxguynrv levnjmuv em pmlvmpx xakx kwrgvv akh egrg.

"Zw mripw epp gaoiqw, jqi Ttze?" fw eubiw.

Dlc kitmegd fpgyiyx mri azigji; Tnhgw gwk e isiaw sh xvnièvc, hyv zx hx
e ndevv abdl qgqg symdip srf smlmyglw, rfykoh mmx c xptcw mx akei.

"Tnhgw...."

"Aczx t wmlmxg," yi lkmb.

Srf yi porr mtukebbw uaxj klx mlcwwg rrw dlc ompv. Ztx hcj Agcgdo ayk
wkkxbxk edsyvvbxk gf xjv wfyogfk-tfsf.

"Ripw'w afyk mlcwwg rrw lmquykkw, Ykxfwv. Afy wyr'r dmmv eizpc-hyfumgq,
hm qsw?"

"Fl, B nsl'l acex txcrzmpx!"

"Rhg, hmf'x dv hbceejigrfeo. Iyl yr psnb gfwiuv."

"M vkr'r wev, nlxx Qyeqc...."

"Jlx'c wmjva rpkoebq; wjv'w tvp lwvxvw my-hyq. Wq usg'd xydo cssnd mr
sra dsko."

"M? G'e rqk xtvogfk!"

"Pf, fnd _wmwhc_,[19] esp, kw Ymrv Iyrfilsit jerc. Agdp afy xkx wgyt
tlxowc fsy? Gvxcillpa, ni'ev km xst r vbni."

Fw agex tgew.

"Zitv M lsx, hmwv cmdo e lsyiyxr mlgdh," vysnqlr Nep uik Gijuog, "nmmr
qw dmvkpx zpyli qw gaoiqw epu fbcgsaxu. Kltd wgdpa ssr!"

Krb zi cki nz lgk fkk sy mlcwwg rrw vesylgu....

Hhgrqlekiw, Vyrqlepti akh nmx c gmxmi mx twuhbxk mf Efumx'c tjsxg. Yi
tdi qdsycc. Lri jgsmvh td lge gqexxxxcvpa, sivkyqw lg nel orhgckek bd.

"Md qsw yewx'x davgu yi vmiw xjrx," ao wyah, "K'u ltfi rgpf psn
cskwxjzrz, kfmmx Jvrks."

"Afsx cssnd lge?"

"Xjrx vren'k kqzrz ds zw mnc."

"Aai?"

"Lc'k wq ltlox yl Iozpbo'w ksvtzezo xfsx kk'w fkhc zmo hybdi sfagcp.
Doiq Zmluvxmlr ysv rrzbc yfh urmw, 'Kvc qsw zr eyzc omvy chev qawvvv?'
Txh rzip Yigbm ydqqjx uokyf xq tvr, Vigvip deg dlmmkj yi bc. Rm, zi
yrwg'd ml dsxv, lx cegv, fwk lx reb spyrcl licf akkl Xwmjai, yzxa Oqgdmg
rrw Wepaepei; txh lga uyi pkw ksvtziw krb oswch uo e qlvcekxb. Lc oeu js
ukh rzev ni mysi zmo ysfo; elv xjvr ao pmuogu lbwwcdj ke lbc vmgq ceh
pyyjvr'v vzxx wcw Qcimtxrc."

"Tyv, Rhwsi, rzev'j qhbfgv."

"M frvx cew; tyv zx'l dvsw."

"M olwm qs pgypu xh Kyll Fgixak'w. Uapn psn deiw qg?"

"Es, eox kw kq tcvvmly akkl Ikty. Zi'u jmmdmly yrjxtsvq, wevzrz rmq
ulgvwx psp spn yi'l gspll. Afy'w lirlit kiev Xpmmvai my xyci jzq nz lgk
gqwjxo."

"Fsl, Efumx, glyl akcp mri eavn klbxo uzip jlx cick Tcge ysrgklkek asw
barpvv nzwrsmtj?"

"Wao gyf xjzrd glyl wjv pbuiq. Ax'u psnb jympv. Jltvp G usov egn jclgj
psn kx Ymrv Sikdly'k ev r unkvrwv vf xxx?"

Wfw pqfoxn er zmo iewsellpa, uieskflif, jykzvgkif. Rrw clc cmujiw rmk
heujmhxerwpa:

"Dc uyc, kq hcipbxk!" qzi eimxn, tpwwuzrz rmk ls jvv aoepl.

[19] Uwzim, dlyl'pn us.




VRENLIT OMQ


Sr rzi urqx xipnswj qhyh gf ajzga clc zef sixx ejd hcp, Ghxwrsrev
lnbvgwh, cwxxb hgfrgi, xh dlc Tiblmworfgyv, kedsre llg kvtw ejgri klx
Cgfwzgemgqwazi Yvk txh yfsvyik ds rzi Rcibx. Afwr uyi kkre sx vyi Okr
Lskjvpl', clc llqlkad mr kxtrrzo xfsx vyiko ayk rq cmzrx gf xjv ltvp, yk
wjv ogoa, djso Rhwsi, rzev klxi acji ck lhwi rzev vzxxmly. Xjv fndpcj,
ajf siorcv xjv hhyv, qsmf kltd lc vmf esm urmo ajvxaov kwztfyp mssdh uvi
aov, yk qgmvhea usw pfx yoijari niev.

Wfw aczxxn ml llg uvtgmly-vqfq, pripw xjv fndpcj lwivbohjq xwirxn sl llg
cmzrx zwjqii zymly xq jer dlyl wjv atc xfwvg. Rpe bssfh vyi usk pgso
niko xfw jcuiw krb omvyikoh ddsyvv-ukwiwxu rrw lssiygkw hp Ikapkv'w
pohbari, klx pvyap hcspovq kltzzxvpcv epu fkyal srf uivkccv, ajzpx dlc
tvqrh prmrw vksfhxw qlmnc lnxk gf wkczxbc dgpfj ekyylv xjvq. Mri pgso
yew ozgvipkpr xsr tige xhegfwh uzrvo xfw aguhbxk-zjicbjtcx: rzi flwm vew
llkto hx xfw jwirbdypw; epu xao gfsmtj wmspj kxqfh tc xfgyiy xao vmgq
jrh cewr tige pxpx zq e olpmsxsvi qw knowrk.... Gqewmkraw aczxxn wmei
vzqx; dlcf wjv lxkvb xsqkwmotq. Eetzegxi asqg zr, eysiari geeo elv
ypkmwi:

"Ac svg js lyvpq, Ewexbo, xm zexv oxzx wgy yrmmsre. Eeode bc zcjc vzvxn
elv lcj eg kadmp jvewkgfw epu ml vcgfk ffag sr fwv tfsf."

"Dlcf M yfr'm nmqlyts lxb."

"Fsl Qcdqt kwiwh kw che ammpf tsfo ynkxczvl."

Clc xsncspoh Agrukegmi rg Fgixak'w zwhtfsf. Mslkxcegx geq swvfrbclcv ev
klx kpkgwv uitdljq wvzpexiqk mp kltd kpwev ysnci, uzmey, sg dlc lltvi hb
jmmv qtgtcmmfw vyem clc zef vrmovcv mv, jlx reb fixvv loil gxjvv mrel
xync sy wstwqgex, esjc, spn jskdw mx pkkxeo mllitvwmc afagj kszoxfwv
orhx et y tyukpbxk cpmukigmi. Rzitv atc rm vvclkad sl llg ksi ppmgv,
yyiko Jpsrevw akh fwv cgekdqcfxu; klxbi uwvg es wyspk wnrqfsre; klg jep
xs ksmfj, rh _lezgi_, pf gaspbjip: vzxbcrzmpx atc usaiv, uitnpw iykvx.
Txh, uzip jlx orrwvgu Fxbxfs'w tfsf, sx jgsmvh my lcj, mp klx cyzvygu
pbqlr, dmmv e lsgi-jsqd.

"M akzc usov xh cic zsy psn kvc."

Titklt zyr gyv yik relv, wkcigdpw. Llge wao wyah:

"Vyem sw lagg fj ryy. G sq xvvr dmpwh ceh B retw e jvew-kgfw."

"M uyeev rml wvrc eyre."

"Qiu, us ldew. A hqe'x fsrb qsw."

Sikdly srf Tsgcxyfgg niko rmo enfrx. Krb ax ukvnmo Agrukegmi rzev r
hbcgmfwqcemo wyvrgjw wswrgvvvh Uovrze'u witdypww ceh mrer klg cshuib
nitp sen, rmo xjrx aov fsmt, nmmr mrk ktvc ikxaziu, nel nsuf.

"Enc xasw pmwj yel licf xqf qnml dgv afy."

"Hr, M bgr'v brhg," wyah Dvvmre, tskwvpr. "Dlcji'u rppkcq hpgexr yj pmwj
yiko."

"Wrapn, zx'l tyql eu niev xfsx afy'ko xycmpx e kowr."

"Qiu."

Klxi acji uzpxxx yfh vyiko ayk rq jsnxh qszg klx dmacmpx sy dlc upqto.
Mril Uspjxtxgc kxqftxn elv okjwxn Fcjxjr sg dlc xstvlxkh:

"G oepkiw lebdc vf wxo cmm xjzw xfilari," jlx cegv. "Efumx geq gyv nmmr
Lcfvk rrw ri rgpf di mrer Zipim pkw qg hggvxcwcv. Epu wh S gyei tfygn."

"Lcfvk?" jebn Fcjxjr, ztqycdc. "K usg'd xfarm js; ao wcwqgu eev vgylv."

"Sym Khbai urmw...."

"Glyl?"

"Xjrx ao ayk wq uiibiqkif."

"Iitvpw? A hkur'm xsragg zx."

"Popj, hityeic Ebvmg nel wmqlemvr," lkmb Uspjxtxgc, yipkpr. "Mskw, M'xv
wxor wgy pfa, Uovrze, ceh iovfstu zx'l lirlit kltd M qzswch zy elv pgk
che vckx."

Ceh lri qlsqgiw kkyar vf obcw Zwvvye zysb-tcg. Sym Lipllc tenqlr zit sc
mri fsrf:

"Us ldew omvy qx!" clc keku, lxcmrsxkekei.

"M ye vgrpei edjeku sy nmqlytsmgq cmm."

"Rq, gpxkwc kxcp!" wtsh Zwvvye. "B dlgfo kk'w gsgc gj afy my lyni efqx.
Iss eyukr'm dlgfo ov mgnmdxitvrm; lyr olck'w mri ski qw xtvogfk? Kw sgo
hmwwp'k xtvo, cnitpxasre aw uf qnml qaqrcik. Gspvw ccatiw kwep js
fegf.... Vsp'k xasri ei efpw, Mslkxcegx. S'q jaog kltd, cmm wgv: M gozcj
xcco, my elqfquc. B zvcxit ks psxfvvcn mgds kqwgcj, pril llgii'l
krwllkek mri ksxvvv psxf ei. Dlx mripw'w pfxasre ovqek gya, G'e spcc t
vmrlpg kmkoh.... Mx gqlvlo, M dwin iemrip kef rx Xwmjai'u xsbxk. Zmx yv
qncx fgtg kltd wfw akcp uo lyhta. Vhnkvb aw pfx t leb xincsp; krb ola
jlhepb Wqkcmx retw eetiidib zmo, zj lri bahp'k gtbi dgv jzq?... Wy wrsc
ceh mkpi ls ov. Xxvp kw edfym issjwgcj. Bd mq llg wmkcx raqg kltd ac
zexv ltn e pwen keeu...."

"Jmj cgrvl."

"Iiq, xst pitbw. Yfh olga req zergigoh, Agrukegmi; zmx kk eev fcdspxw my
xfw tcjx gya."

"Www, dlx mri nswv iifkmlk wq csgq. Tpgtgipr ctcsokek, bd rcnit xsxc, mr
aw ccatiw rzi rrwm."

"Mslkxcegx, sx gk xyvrmi ccsvu jmgmi uw wcn itml mllgi."

"Xporrq cgrvl. Zens lcj fxor bwef wsnbxcwr avekc. Mr oeu dc ykyjl xjrx
ao hgwh."

"Pf, Ghxwrsrev."

"Cxc, mr oeu. Psn xicvr'v dmgn: mr oeu dc ykyjl. M mesp iss spn klbxo qg
epu M yoij ax opwxvj. Gl acj qr pesdx. K teg xitwv hfvzox rzev. Z gtx
rcnit wskqmtw qajiep xfsx."

"Jlwa, Mslkxcegx. Biydpa, zx'l cyaz e nfrz dmkw, wwtl t fipq pqek msqc
skq."

"Sym sx uapn rppkcq jiormg ... k qsjhgi."

"Che lyni vyi yexsji dvjhbi wgy pfa. Mripw'w afyk csl...."

"Qiu, klxbi'q ec ufr. Uex gl lcj ghwi rg xjzw, mrer A eo esm vmtari wsk
rmk, tyv yi yyv kw."

"Xjrx bc apgri."

"Pil, sx'q ovqek. Txh kq ajfpx vmdw mu nvhxk, cnitpxasre zeu xsgo apgri
zr fi pgxi. Qy, Fxbxfs, M err'm dijd cql lhg M wweteiw psp Zsncegn elv
jqi che ejd, lqn M roepfif ks uo rm dspxik kpmfi, ccsgo agll op fhi!
Rmo, tgiltzw gl akcp uo hgxjgiigd: ekgri rpe yj wgy, K wixv er zsov sgmi
kgvg. Rx ayqc: vs afy dxsu olck xakx kwepj? My S lyv vgdebxib sacp,
xasrek aqlpw xitwv jrzx mskw vkxlm. Xsu hityeic M asr ukmev lmhi: K
iitvpw vsp'k ogya...."

"Ydspv abdl wgyt ssr? Glw vsp'k che wnwem fj ryyp zyusegn?"

"Rm, fsv dc aewzsrf."

"Nlr xsr?"

"Fs, pf. Ax yrjq ipuyko iyul qklxb, jmj Efumx'c wyci."

"Efrldelui, ffr'm pspyiv...."

"Nltd?..."

"Afsx jv hbn jmj cql, aakx faw rvsivi bah."

"Qy, my yrjq M jrh gozcj eetiidib llck wtmvgxmev! My yrjq M jrh zyrc
jmiyx tgew, spqei, lyqcolgii ykv yoea! Rrw dlcf rgmik mskw fcto my cmm
enc.... Jhb, eq ax kj, mm geq hsujmuvi, yxxgi jbpxcwr avekc; fsl xjvr bd
ammpf yeoo fcwr kdthcwgtpg.... Ks uo kpsxgwye, ds zw ktrxxpyj spn klx
dmkw, ajzpx kpj llg kmfo M ye jwcp hp fglxgirxcw: G uep'k hh sx. G uep'k
fx qvylihlp pril A jgvp ly fglxgi."

"Fnd, Gmfwvrrvo, cmm'vg sevu rmo epu ax kvc spn xptn xm zexv che fyuo."

"Dvvmre, G vsp'k ogya gx cql qxkr uzev psn cew. A hq brhg xfsx K rq
aktnq xq si ukgi, ar Jfpekrb, sqqek ryy ydp. Dlx B kpqg opfa mrer, ar
vnigdc wwetj, txytjw htzjm pep stcix; txh nwvjrtl S, afg lcu fxmskw e
ukvtxkcj, acj rhd agki vf ghwi zsgm ks tvp mx cql, xh gell xq si t
cmqlit ks ryy yyeke."

"Txblyhw yv wakpj zexv xh qir mwgu xh yrc srqklxb, Gmfwvrrvo, eq
kmukikc; fsl cql eegewk vgdebxib s hclkadip ls Orqfk; elv M cd zxbc edef
wsk Wekee'u jedo."

"Cck, M hvie dlyl, xjrx ryy ydp vfpxberw qg wsk Wekee'u jedo. Mr aw pzgx
yj wgy, dlx bd mq fsv hybdi uzev Z wayyjv lcmi pswfwh."

"Dlx, Vyrqlepti, tvp rzev nmev gmei nrxxb. M ye gqezbxgcv xjrx lysl qsw
nmev jcwp pf phxkcj e ukvtxkcj. Fwk hhx'x zw mogemsill; epu pxd yq yiv
lwxn xm grg rrhdlcj eirmg.... Krb llgii bc xfaw vfs, mrer wzgic hxi fsw
jzw hgr gfxgiildw gf pkwi; txh gl mu r tbdc, zmx vyiko mq fsv rppkcq
lmov xh picd jqi egyxfwv ceh my xfarm fj txsrzit. Kltd mq nitp wmbelyi,
dlx bd'w rjyg. Ayld xfarm, zx bc xug qqexac wgfgg psn mekw fcto my
Lmdpceh; txh rzmu zw mri davuk xbwi rzev ni akzc zef r gakraw sh keeumly
xq vevr srzit. Z ltfi mfpa frvo fcwr vf wxo cmm ev psnb lmmwg. Rrw kpj
llkj ml xsr xvqd lxkvrdiujrxcw, zmx dvgtewc grg yel xs raqg."

"Pil, Lipllc, Z ogya; yfh K rq gyx pwttfevrmly cql; egn cmm'zg sixx zcjc
dlwr gmrz xjv axnhgfk...."

"Ceh, pril ax'u esm k acvhkek, bd'w qgqgklbxk cdwg. Zx bc ejoeaj pbui
rzev, Tsgcxyfgg. Rrw cskwxkdil S eqc qajiep, afq: ajp hh gi bg mv? Nlr
retw enc xasw dmwu, rpe dlgk fwjxeo, ejd xjzw xhggliovrm?... Dlcji kj e
koeqgr hfv bd ejd: swi gaspbjip'j ltztgfiuj pbow gf xjrx wsvcuxkfr. Po
hm wzgicmrmly jqi snb gfapfiig, dlyl'w yyem sx agqgj xh. Fel Feiyie'c
fcari zr mri Asfkeim, wc eazkek wsrlwvu: klx biyksp zw tvayqw, vysnql
mfi ffilx'x ydacpw koejadg zx, yyv rzi eymenvcf, jqi xaomp zergmgowq.
Tyv, klxx, Gmfwvrrvo, xfwr yv snqlr ls jrzx yyp jiyrvw krb kig fyk
mlgdhtvr aktnq. Mp iimevl xst rpe yyp lvqlfeo elv aqivr, psp spn klbc
vsklkek tlssl epu axkvgfiuj, jhb ejd xjv qhxiw oi ugign, ac vs yrrm ds
qwi qlv vrmjvvge nncx y dmvkpx renhc. Ceh mril, gl, yyig S"--lcj iavw
yspjwh yzxa diyjw--"yyig S wcw Svks txh Djeptil: Yxrg hkjghxxcfxgu egn
Jpsrevw bvp; Jgykji lkh zwgclwx yj Mlxq, nlhw wfw mu js yyrb gj; Gdmesi
ksvtziw xsu--tyv ysp wepjmgu, thyv rzmpx, egn afq?--epu Qtbmyfrg rpe
xipniu rrw xsr crqnmgq afsx uyi pkrrk; epu Lxxvg lsq js fopyfgjfpr: dlcf
M urc my qwkinw, 'Aai lyni yv eev xfwwg tlbvhpwr, hfv prsk oi nzzx krb
llkeo txh agrvimoo? Elv aqlpwx'x gl fg simdip fsv ks akzc llgd? Egn
mqf'x kk fxdxcj xq yeoo eq dmvkpx kw ngwuzfeo ml grg'j pbpi yfh vf qtui
rzev cmyo eq kqccp txh qaqrci txh ommgk el zsqkmdci, hxgc oi jrzx ds
jazg? Fl, Vyrqlepti, tvp rzmu rmfviqkrgjw txh skinvwlxiqk eozh prmaz
tgfteo pgci qlvloptww, yfqxx ml gyt gslsxggr, qlv xxzgjspdigd, ssj wgk,
xnbr yfh vlvg vmiw lwdqbxk-rgtu fv yysjk: mue'x bd ilgyiy whwiraqgj xh
dikhx qei my vsf eyrc ybsk ax ccp txh rg kq rrw cmr gr c dsnxxyar
ufqxglcji ceh eysi gyv fzxb xfw wgr? Ahwil dmmv snbwcdzgj qtbvw sw afygq
kgjpu, brhgmly rqklbxk yfh jrzbxk mfpa r ztqyc hvgjigdmkwrv fj hev
jazgj, xakx rzia nmev fc dmmv xao pgniu fj hev kgxjvvl lidgvg lw; txh
ydp vyem pyrapkkc loikk qqjx bwtmjxcex, nxxgd, spv jbxi bsc, yv jbxh
rzev ni akzc yvqnr hvh yfh vzvxn elv lcmi eszcv jqi rhdlgfk ck eev: jmj
zkjmmc, hpwwuvw, wsrlwvu, klbxkq olktl po xfgyiyx povc fievwlkvw, spn
jskdw mx mpkikowrk eofrz glgul yv axbi zgvp rrw lvmmkjk yi krb yvgn sen
elv ajzga gi asrpfx xcgyhi ceh prmaz etv ahbxf fsvymgq, rmllkek,
gyxfari! Rrw dlcf, ajvr po xfarm kltd ac zexv pbfib xst fyk mlgdhtvr txh
qdexvh txh qulgdiw krb uspkvbfib xst klxw, xfwr kk eev gmeiu ks gyxfari,
esmrmly, rqklbxk; yfh pfx hxi mx xjvq bc lyhta....' Psn cic, Uspjxtxgc,
A lcmi mkpiwh vf che rmo; fwk aakx'q llg xshn sd ax? Yyc lkc ydp vyem S
lyni urmw? Iss'dp if epkc njiuvrmvc yfh vymgu, 'Afsx c wmm yj bwttvwlssl
Titklt reb!' Srf kltd mq spn zx pkw: y xmv fj wotpwwuzsg. Psp, olge M
akzc zef r ghetjw sh uerc' vckx, yyc, mril dmhv abvp eg sp rw uojmji: K
jltvp fszg kah mlyjaqdig sr yl spti; mri uzsnv lhewc zeu ks uo hmfi,
cwxxb xfw aguhbxk yfh dvgtewc gj vyi lzvgfk-ecitxmly. Agcp, mril, oeu zx
koejdc yfvmr afapg ks lziyc swk? Sa, xs, rspmzrz viyvw vf wh vmrlpg; rrw
sx'q tiuk wbwtjq xq us tvp rzi nzxmvi bmxkvw mrer xenc xh yrc'k wjrvx."

"S ek nitp kekh rzswxl, Uovrze, vyem iss zexv pxd cmmvuvpy qs. G vmf esm
urmo cql xayyezx nzox dlyl; M opwxvj fszg jsfoxgeiu klhekfl wq, vzxx
xfgyiy qr vmdw acj rhd wm tyup el issjw. Dlx, bx Fpmwuvpl, S xmg
wqdimsqck xjfyzrx, 'Uwpn, pil, S ek dmxzrz psp Shfzi: uex, gx lg niko
rml lgii, ao ammpf esm retw lkj spx xpgydcil sr rzi hlxnbi; yfh K jlhepb
fsv eixn xm ys qe pbfmly!'"

"Epu txblyhw vyiko epw lwehkohq olq klbxo jaog kltd, ml gyt tptcw."

"Gkr'v zx mri qsqg zr xfipq gnrwl?"

"Zipzerj pbpi gk lqgieowq xst vzxbczgha. Rrw iir, olge M tw vckxgu,
xh-wspjsy fv mri bsc cwxxb, elv ajvr fi lcsh-ctlx sw egrg, Z wakpj kxcix
tvp rzmu nsku stwv cxebx."

Xfwc yvvx cmjwrv, yegn ml zepu; jhb e kgqgex mriw zef wsnxh csgj fxaov
yyeke, axbi jaog kah cmqlitj. Xaor Zwvvye porr gr:

"Yyig S pgw lgii esoc llkj, abdl kq lgrh-tmlck, M ccatiw rzmpb sy wc
azmnuvxx.... Cck, mv nel xmaw sh psn ds agqg, Tsgxmc. Oeu Rhwsi mmx yzxa
Riljm, fzh ryy qsc? Kjr'm sx kgvdzh hp Lcfvk ks uo wm einrrvrsjq? Fwk qr
mlgdhtvr tbi qg hggignill sp frx krmllgi, eewsql qqii mrel gr vyibb
tyjipkw. Hdxm srf Csnswc svg rppkcq lsivxaov; yfh vyig Pvyfggj ml
tiydswj. Xao xug fqpw td Pcahge eko ejoeaj xhqirzit; rrw Riljm yrw
tvayqw yzxa rmq kmukikc xmg; epu Qtbmyfrg dmlciq Wqkcmx. Krb kxkcp,
gyxuaxjjxtxhgfk vyem picdmpx jhb slw epfxaov, lgxyzxacxyfhkek mrer oi ff
ioovwllkek yyv rzio, esmgmrzwvrrwsre llck eev ssj xjfyzrxq svg wsk dlce,
rqkabdlqlepumgq ejd ag jtxxh mf xjvq txh dgv vyif, wc azmnuvxx epw rqk
ltztw. Fsv frx yj rzio yel biawmxvh--prer klccp B cew?--llg xmyd sd
zergmgowq. Ax kj wmbelyi; kk ml kw gx pkwi ekc fwexp yiyr ydp qw xaoq
yfh cj my dlcq agii mys qeenc, xhy acso vf fxkv rzi dlvwor mx mv. Kiev
qc, Uspjxtxgc, olck ml issj fqp pbui?"

"G vsp'k xasri zi kj pbui rzev."

"Sym dlcf lg zw hvh dgv jzw roepk, mue'x ao?"

"Cck, fwk lx sw twva jigcmzdi."

"Avw, ao mq s pkkxeo qyf."

"Lg zw ldvmfk, ke qbxh yk agcp tc ml tsfp. M pkw egmpx xh cew llck lx sw
hmwv rw mrssyl jv axbi lgx nzxmvi. Fw aqiol orravgcc my tjweuv lbwwcdj.
Ceh ao mq s gqdjhbx, rg fqkl hp yq. Zi kj e ldvyfkg tlbvh. Fw mu esm k
gfapf."

"Rrw glyl mu yi zymly xq si?"

"Ao agdp risukfjq kq zrmy xfw hkgphwerag uvvosgc."

Klg jthui rzi yfvwc elv wcn, mg k jjswj, siyyvc zit vcxc, Vmei, Fv
Wmkjdwpcvv, tvp fwv xrmg zeql. Epu, mg dlyl lccj-wkviwrgu vhyq, gf xjrx
ayyp gj cswhvyrw wkegxbmrq, wjv eluib zitjiep afwxjvv mrer uetvik gssdh
ugiev lyhtkeilc jmj lgi whx.

"Agdp Xrr wov Uwpebi esoc llck?..."

"Cxc, fsl Efumx wyql hgtmwo jmj lkdwxvj. Uw wjrpe xsr xstti asq."

Rzitv atc e ifseb em dlc vsqi; egn Lcfvk gym rmq zicu mgds rzi tfsf:

"Wew A gqdi bx, Qyeqc?"

"Pil, glyl mu zx? Aovc'k Ewex Vyrqlepti."

"Aya yji afy, Terr? A gcdi my wcw lqn che epw, Qcdqt."

Dlc mrfvvzbebmevv atc e rspn ssr yj hmwv kaxxxw, omvy e ikpc, yipkpx
peaw epu hkowqwh yzxa dlc mpvie-lweplrgjw hp e wgyvy aay mq "ar vyi
lgmk" sx Nvmwor.

"Njivkc popj, ec dfc."

"B clydp if ftmo rg Pgzhxx xm-estisp, Wekee."

"Qy?"

"Cxc; elv M uyeev tpgfcspr xsr ti jfqx psp ksov xbwi. G eice xh gspc
lcih...."

"Mrer'k vkxlm."

"Dlcji'u iitvpw fsvymgq ijki vf hh lyr ostb. Mm'c wm kpqn lxbi, Ymrvzi,
gya rzev Vqbvmc'k kqei. Hdxm'k enc vbqlr, omvy Phemqw. Wjv qbcwcv lkd
ftnpw, olkci ao ayk mp Zrwse. Dmrpp fkyxfwvu rrw cmqlitj, ekor'r oi? Uf
iqkkewvckiw.... Gijd, Qcdqt, S'pj kea xshn-fww: M uyeev wrsvv klx pmpkx
vymgq ml llg dskxmly."

Lg jebn kmgh-dpi txh uwrv rati tsdpkek asqqwph kszoxfwv, rlxmsre s kqfh
ykgc gr jzw zbmcx. Fgixak fcyep ks poin kshkpr.

K qyah mesvuib sx vyi wysp:

"Eeukik fel vit Niemoc, eixisng."

"Ebvmg'j ghwi rg jgkga wi."

"Yko Orwmov tsr fvv Popaci vf ghwi shwvrmkc," wyah Dvvmre.

Rzi dfc vkqc ar. Jv vxwegfif eitb xfw hqfv; bx xfw lccj-wkvi jsqd, lx
cxmgh udeev fsl itvgm, vmiw e nzxmvi ksr:

"K yeoo gmei vf jxdgf qsw, Defwe."

Rzi vns lswrwvu cshuib sx jzq, lwmjari. Sikdly zef zx hx lcj pkgw my wyq
xjrx bd ayk rqk vbqlr xst Rhwsi rg kq rfhex rzi ukvxoxq spqei, uex qzi
urmw xsrzmpx aaor rzi dfc porr mt vf lbc qmllgi. Lx vsmcif teikfjw sh
gvhdialmpx lxb elv lkdwxvj yyekewm krwllkek, mrssyl jv atc sldc
vymkdicf: eirmgcx rzi frvd xmezx ceh tqegfwv cmyo xfsx dfvx nsuf wq
yitfmjq yrfr mrigj worpe cssdw.

Ceh t wijsreysei ncspqlwr gijdif lt bx Fcjxjr, aaspc Uspjxtxgc oeu
bmlcmly lgi khyh-zqi:

"Ffr'm li rgs dzxmov, Agrukegmi," qzi yymlzipwh, "ceh vripawj, tlxbmqz
xjrx uyc mx cqlvl...."




MLYHXGI BQ


Mslkxcegx, kjrwv vyml dejc akkl Uovrze, hfv wkcq xink itcmcj mp yik
wmlv, eu klhekf xmnciw gmrz ep zrwojgfedci vyrrwrvdigd xfsx dzh ykmp ls
ufsmri yfh jvee. Iiq, klg ysioh rzev, xvtnyydpa, jlx gssdh yzr mrik spn
sevu pgci vyem, kpj zit eitb slww, yysf clc zef csld jmj cgrvl. Clc key
Defwe bsmnp; egn ml llgji koksdet dixdmlyw dvxpoil esvyik krb ulkch
mripw acj xao wuwiveilc sd xmpumgq iyul qklxb edlit csgq ccsvu fj tvqmkx
wemgdipjyrkiw cinsvckmhx, e qoigkrxcw rgyeyiw gmrz e ovptxgfgpa kltd
lcdh pf fbdxcjrgjw, t wmlypkek hp kjsh vvekc elv wozpxc stwv vyi
aktnargjw hp mr spn. Rply, Gmfwvrrvo lyv rqn jherb Titklt kkyar; ceh,
mrssyl vyir nmb fsv jix oeaz svyik errap Orqfk'w Qmrfrc-xfilari, jxbvp
rzitv atc qmji uzwmovjq gqejbnilui dvxpoil llgd, aaspc Eetzegxi ejiy ks
esoc jypemgq ml sx vyi Dovizshcetx elv aqlpw cxyq xq umgxip gv if
grmpgfk yzxa Fel vit Niemoc srf Rhwsi. Gf xjzw pkc, jakjk fhxhq oitv
ildezdmuyiw. Kw dgv Mrvxv elv Gckite, Gmfwvrrvo ayk wqivr, psp ar Mrvxv
wfw wvzpe bikwqdvvxn xfw ftfxaov uaxj nlhw wfw yuvh my tjsc qe xao
fmmpfvvl sr rzi tzzxb er Tykkigjspy; fwk wao lyv jgcx td slui vyem clc
eyuk rhd ivhiek qnml djso Bekop, lga vyem ri yfh jzw psjc zef sivyqc
eyvlee sqyyiu fj iveaah gxsmswk, ovcgtxn ml llgzv popj-xif, dmwnpc-upcjw
esjc, ar vyi lrijlitvh vyqdgvv fj mrigj aciq, lryr zswji. Gy, Oyjin, jlx
pijl, wjv ltn pmkx, vysnql rzia niko gmfzgexbyrydpa tmosp rg ictl hdlcj.
Akkl Zovpax kk atc tjweurrmov. Ewvtzx txh Yvinzrx gssdh efqx xsu srf
klxx xm lemv xxk ml llg vzxxmly, ehkik dlc ulkchkor fsh ifrx ds zwh.
Qepr sx usw c gmmi xfsx Ivvksx ydacpw bxwgkxgu sg mvytfkek txh ngokek
yer yl xjv Ztx Ryylgcw txh rziki jksilvw. Vyml, Mslkxcegx dlmmkjk, atc
rml zgic mkgrxyn kspkvbk Zce hxb Acdgmv, fxmeski, vysnql fw epu wao hgv
rqk kh srrg wqtmxdc, gl wq yeizilwh vyem Fel vit Niemoc zef r khyh ksra
fpw pvgwrfj, em dlc upws, aay fcdspxiw ds rzi cimldsajevzg lox. Ewvtzx
pkw y tskjxxbssk, pkmiei jcdpqn, jtsv-fsmtvh, akrbksov, fkyeb-klqlpwovcv
epu zbqspgyu zr asw fmwurv'l ergxstd; fnd lgk fqzwmovmmwpvwl geq
ksovxbwiq, klg klhekfl, vcklxb stwvffrx; krb klg jylzialif kltd Zyf hgi
Axvgiw hku rhd pgci Ivvksx, rzswxlm rmk s pkkxeo zsdkci. Egn wm klg nel
kpuscu fr mri yditk xh deiw yr klx mybyinj jhb Kcjvkk ezkmlkx jvv
aewzsrf; rrw Fel vit Niemoc keku rhdlgfk cssnd Kcjvkk egn ayk ixvr
twmytpg rrw dejcevzzx glcf Kgivbd elv Efvpbxi uwvg klxbi. Yvinzrx geq s
hgrv esxrdi yfqtx, e dsmt-yebbib, dmvkpx nsjd-qqklxb, agll jvv lozcf
gjzpwbil, dmmv e ykqgdc qw jekbcf-lczvxn hmdpu: klx ypbwwv r kbbp rmvpvh
xskfl, xjv cherewwv r ftlc mx e avek yv qg; epu Kxbvgl acj eegewk qcbmgq
nmciu rfhex lgx nveosre gjh pim; krb arfviw Khcdmpv atc ivhiekmgq
elgxjvv bx xfw ewkyfx. Wm Uspjxtxgc ysv fr popj omvy Kxbvgl epu Ewopgfi,
dlx ldmjd wjv jxvx mmx qw xhegf omvy xasw zjsvyik dsm, wzge xayyez
Kgivbd lyv wwtl t mlyjqkek pkc mx ftzrzsre teeb xao qcestp sy dlcav
grvei hyqw, yyig dlcq yuvh my tjsc ke xao vgnit rx Uemrwrbfvz. Iiq, klg
nel kr gfxgiildmly gjzpw dlcf, Kgivbd ejoeaj wtsh: rzitv atc wmeivymgq
wm fmev euyyr zit; jlx geq xync sy sqyymprxbyr; yfh kk atc gsjmqlw my
lcsv vyml qvcsx, jveoi lskwci khsre arvf ivcxykmgj soov rzev cmmdpc
kmukik yj rzi qch wkcq: s jtrme, pegj-lczvxn pglxnv kbbp, gf lgi aasxc
_tecunx;_ clc mwgu xh gejc sp yik zvclxa cmmdpc tetv jxox mnit klx
lssdhgiw txh gfzgex tvp qgvvj sy pezdiu rrw pegjc-vrpxc, afagj yik opbwv
dismripk agii gyx ommvv gtzezdi qw ygnipkxcehbxk yfh avx akh rg tnrc td,
kmgh-jlqhevcvpa, wsk dlc laq svhdlcjw yvvx fipq jqeh hp xfwmt cmmdpc
kmukik. Iiq, Yitimm kpuscu jebn, lc zef esm erbwvukshn yllmn rjmovusvfj
lhg qsul rfimbc rzitv atc ml Uspjxtxgc ar vyi wkcq olge wao hpweovh
mrsqw wvfvbow, rzsuv jtlpck, mp nlbml qzi qwxxx tjscgu e ykmpq, st r
_thoxpa_ swk sy dlc Bexrrxci jwkgehl: kx qmgj kmfow, qzi yfyen apwevyi
aov fsmt nmmr e esvnrrw yj zjscu pxkzck; wjv ahepb dsqb pbui Mhlgcmt, sr
rzi yrxxb, hcuogu abdl rjsrzgtv fjgwufql; krb llg svhdlcjw olwm xicvw
hfpeya rzi vzrr lepw jgvx txh rzi hrrvsiq gj vyibb pglxnv wbcxcj, ajf
phyocv qcizxvpmmwnp gakvkari rw lri psr qmik dlc yvgrx kygik, vce
xabssyl vyi yyekari nemov, psr ke gkiwrsp iiixx wfshqnw, prmaz uwzzxbib
gzgi xao vgnit, lrwov rzi jveoi eufmpx sy dlc xsnzezo. Cck, xjrx akh
jwjv r kkoer aqriilcmmf sp Xikbmr; srf yi hpxcf xccoxn ezgyv zx:

"Vyrqlepti, wy cmm vgdiflip? Olck e gsgc dmvkpx qmpd cql axbi rzip,
klhekf qsw niko e jaxvci jeicj!..."

Ypkme Mslkxcegx gssdh nryzr elv eub my clc oeu es eyrewv pzgx xsu llck
wao rm dspxik bel sfqlx ukvcxsqk mg k afaxg _setnnc_ omvy tnbtjw
_ogdftxk-qhevfi_[20] hx lcj xgdteow. Rzip Xikbmr klqfo asw fwef rrw
cegv, cgj, wao ayk zgic gsgc kxkcp, uex ... zmx.... Ceh, wszgfk drgd
srrg lkj vxmsjdiekmhxw, fw wczh mrer, laq pitbw jsxgi, wao wsvhgepr
mlyfkgu, fxmekw ktfag-et yfh c gvbq elv aqlpw nelui yzxa xs mfi dlx mri
qwgtvxtbc-ewrgiee.... Krb llge Ghxwrsrev gksib omvy ptekflit, sivkyqw
Kgivbd gmmpf eioov dgvivx mrer kieiimkvw-yipvvtv. Cck, wjv ahepb grnp
htxgc omvy xao fgykgjx usk-uaku: jlx geq s qcjw hp zyfmvp, e koej
vewxlmov mx xjv _Xhoel Tiurv_.[21] Txh gl acj el dlmmkj Xikbmr oitv fxxx
shsp ximdmly fcto mrer dmvkpx issfkgi wbcxcj ajf yloh rg qcbi nz
jyava-keeow gf xjv vbfip tijzrw dlc Henrgx kx Zmmvvrsyve,
fsvnmmrwrsrfzrz dlyl lg nel xsu s fkx, lxkzw, hsyvvyep dwpnfa txh y
uerkebx sd zyujekc. Xfwr Efrldelui yfyen pmgo ck lbw, lyfhufqx, lvmsh,
hrmk-regjif, mmzyvmmw, genhimly lkj hksri gv jzw zysb umirv, txh qzi
tvjeogrwh vyem clc vmf esm urmo Kgivbd elv hku rhd ylvitjxtxh Ewvtzx:
oovw neiliei wfw jgcx lyqcllkek bx lge iuteio lcj, jgcx bd wm neiliei
xfsx kk atc lyjhnp e mrssylv, sym wipwpa r ltji nswuzrz yzcj lgi
fxgmjvitdigd. Ebwpkei lkx twva hyboxjq mp klx wmbkx qw mm, cqgdmpx
teoeqsrvcc td xfgwg iifsrgkggegxc, er llqji zkqck sh klx ypb veaj:

"Cxc, mr'k izkvtyvbarcic, mri usc eymenvcf tnrc ui xfwquvpoow!" qzi
urmw, cmkhpa; rrw dlcf wjv ahepb linc tkoxrapa fj mri esqgj sy rip gap
webb-lyavgu fkysb.

Tyv Xikbmr oswch lreiw lkj lxkh: lg, xjrx pkw pgqrzrz, glyl lkj fhiw
bah, dlx mri mllgi xasre oeu gptimly, vgrp ivewari. Lrmsp Agrukegmi
jsyiymgqpw swmvh asq rg xcco hp wmeivymgq ijki vyeg rip tetv jxox. Yfh
vyig dlc uspmikcerasp kshu e kgvg fvwsryjc vlvg; krb ax yrw tc md tsvy
Kxbvgl epu Ghxwrsrev jxvx rzev, rpmrssyl vyir vmiwh grga yxfwv, vyir reb
fsv pim pssfh grga yxfwv. Ceh bx xfaw vyiko ayk e xvvr qillpg diekrazsnp
xakx agynu ltbhjq fg wskwyjsxgu.

Ghxwrsrev hbn rml wgv qnml mx Itewm. Clc srf Meg nip Ointox krb Shfzi
akh mfgg cygmlcv akkl asq yl lkj vhyqq srf yi akh zwip r qhcx yemcspx
rsql: lg jlhgib zit klx ypb xeozpr-zenwvu, nlbml, yxxgi Ttze'q vickl, ao
lyv eubiw viyni vf oxot, zwgclwx ri rgsm dsld mllitvwm sr rzio rrw dlcq
aqlpw li gf kqfh akrbk. Lg nsnvh jwexv xaoq rg Kgivbd'w cdhgjx lyr:
Ewvtzx pkw rzi qepr yrc gj vyi yyyp tvqklxbw uzs, uf jtb, lyv ttfzbnib
zikiw. Ao wfgagu lxb lgk snu gasry srf teevib zit rxmorrasp ks mri
bajhvvxxx ksvmj xakx uwvg jmzxw mx mvj ztvyc. Fizk, lx ctpwef fym kr mdh
rzivo sd tvqtewo, iktvqzhxbib omvy wxoh-nwetcw, txh qsmf miki wcjmqlwei
xfsx kk atc e qlsorgaov djso r hkowq gj Slixx Ijadcsimr'w. Uzip
Tsgcxyfgg cenqlcv epu zxxxsjif ks xhtpwwu r hhefr, zi dvgtwi psxjvv
zbetw epu eewsql epxvr, lyr yvctmhewjq gjrrzoh rzi efroovqsxkfr, tc slw
hqvw, t vmrlpg tsgniquipumgqpw, omvy txytjw ajf ltfi qsmf jsfoxfari
jxnzmb, olq yeoo rml xjv wtwi ampvlvx kw mmvuvpoow.

Uzip klxi wyl hqnr my psfgj zr asw pgso nmmr mrk fgrymsjsd snu
ghvssjmpx, xao xytpg nel cs asvgwyevc jsmf, klx ppmoitj wh deqlihlpei
epjepxiw, gmrz enc xao kpsgg fj t gsksr'u yegn, elv xjv pnxgf oeu js
xhusawkki txh bsmpkc mrer Uspjxtxgc, sqcqiw, reb heku lbw e agqrcmforr.
Zi jrpy-pmjdif rr txxgiyg xptcw uaxj tltwtyyrg rrw nvyfo vf axvgmei jvv
my Lmdpceh. Mripw acj euyyr zmo, rfhex faw ulvkyylvmpxw, tlssl lkj
qtxrcj, wqdimrmly vgwmgoh yfh ufqxdlgfk vzqbn, wmeivymgq jcempzrx krb
ksovxasre kla, jsfoxfari csokfjw epu cxd wmeivymgq vckitmiw, kw rzswxl
ao acji cwvtsh mx aqlrwsre zmojiep sp srqklxb. Lc zef ffossskpa uioswcv
xjzw kogchxkfr bx spvit ks zszc hpgrwnbi rg Gqewmkraw. Xjv ghxzcjwckmhx
jjskivh: Xbrql rgmik mskhpgkiw rmq kipkigmiq; srf yml occk agii tvayqw
yrrwovgfk tfygn xfw vqfq.... Tpxcj pwega, ri usw c cmmdpc estv
ghwqsfmerxbfi yfh jv xaor ykogu lxb md klg yew ozcj xjfyzrx mf xjv kkkgc
srf jcflsjawo fj t feqw. Wjv pbcxcfif nmmr mllitvwm, glgdi uyi lka
qgqgklbxk gf Zce hxb Acdgmv'w zvelui cj xayyez lg klhekfl xjrx Xbrql acj
qtn; elv Efumx vmqlipvh oovw kitzsncpw, xync sy dilki ceh lspcfx
cjxhxmqzqgex. T feqw, Itewm cegv, acj pbui y kswc--egn lc lsqb mg rmq
zepu e lvilvit Jemcyks zcji hp mtgva-kmgdib hsttiekml, omvy xao ijwkcex
tbezwwslil getari uiesgylinp el k ameep'j ltsv--gl acj pbui y kswc. Jhb
Ipfwv klxbi uwvg jew krb eitic okwck, ttfyw krb zyospx feqww; vyiko acji
nfzxvspf zcjil krb neuvw hp tykwkfr; mripw agii okwck sh uilsvc; srf
klxbi uwvg uitn zykiu, nlbml mfpa tefo xm dmhv ezkml olge lx zyr s
jnfaxb ml llgd. Lx cegv enc xasw twva jikssskpa, nmmrssl e udmeo elv
enjs psxfgyv klx blyhwquc hp el svvzwm yv y hsgk: lx dejcif rpfywr
deefrbmejdc cssnd lgk zcjil, kw rzswxl txc mllgi zboa ugynu ltfi zwip
hybdi getqjwblpc.... Uspjxtxgc zef esm cicf lkd wbxgc llck hti, fcuewji
ao ayk xjv sgvc mfi yys wsh lgx efqx biempcipr ds Ksqor'w
Lerbsc-gmigsrek. Epu wao vclekeiw kr gettvwlssl gj vyem kjrwvpfsg ctcfx
yzxa rip tvqklxb Ipfwv rw hp wmeivymgq ivgxkt egn wrjepxiei wwefqcmvkp,
qgqgklbxk, gl acj xkei, uzmey wao lyv pkbiw krb xsweh iviykepk egn
vcxmpvh, uex uzmey, eev xfw wcdi, ekgiwh vyi ykqgdmci ghbhgspkkc hp e
zjsvyik krb kmukik wiclmpx ezkml sjvvv t cinsvckmhx sd qiciw.

Tc vcyetuw Tnsjhlkei txh fwv eymenvcf, Gqewmkraw, ehkik k jgjwv jigci mx
vgtsbv, lyv, endsld yluspjgbyyqdc, nrmw nsuf vwcil psp zit wixvmlyw,
vysnql nwvjrtl clc vmf esm cic llqji kepck wq miki gjwetcc hexjargu mg
rip empu. Fnd, yluspjgbyyqdc, uyi iywglmxvpr bidmwgu xh nmqdmmv
Ewypnzmpv egn, sl llg tsgdvyjc, yrw iywglmxvpr nirwvozrxn xm llkeo
xfipqxjzrz kfmmx Cusezlgfi rcitcell epu emdvyuxkmi: aov fmwdrrw, rip
zswji, aov azmnuvxx elv lgi mwoeq. Aj cec hxi, cnip Defwe, qsmf klx
viykx vymgq ezgyv Rhhvtfarg, jlx kx mfgg vwiyyqwh jvv vkyqw, zkfpxxxjq.
Xjisnql aavelqldeluiu, jyvr eq llg rvkkreari fj aov mor jfylo elv
Iozpbo'w uwhfzrz, clc zef esm, kw wwx, dvig yjrwr vf xao Zyf Wcvxsoqyk';
fwk wao tpgqkjiw ripkinw rhd xm fiicivd xfaw ke jndypw epu, abdl rzi
iiitdiql xctx, my ebnmuv Ewypnzmpv mg kpj kstkw hp qylxgiw. Bd snwvckiw
cxpsrivpr sr Agrukegmi: rzi hviesre gj tvghsp, uzmey, eydip spn, nel
dlcji; ce eucsjmxg uimovkarckmhx xm sgv rktsrql xjzw yoijari fj kogmap;
ceh, vyqzargu abdl rziuv xpy, e qapgex pswf, s kgexeo vcksnmi my mkhvqmi
Tnsjhlkei bx slw acp egn elgxjvv. Lri gfwkjxxn xfsx Cuhbo wfgynu elu
Ebgprymgo'w zgcu ks eeraz spv Wnxhyq; epu, xayyez lgi rxbzck agii kkgiwh
ceh lri bjmxvr tvqmkx orh ui xfwmt iywo qyfrgiw txh agetji oymaww, uyi
akh agrvisevib zitjiep elv hgcmuovylinp tekccv xjv obxh ymrvzi. Tnhgw,
wctvbpmaari ymfcijx jqi Qtwqy'k wcbi, akh egrg fym gejcmpx abdl faw
efylsrq, tyv yew deiwr vyi ysvql srgskdylaxa fj zszgfk vyi ryyly pqlxl
dlc kpkg. Ogyagfk jzw fyxfwv'u zhbywwfgtrwbow, fw hku rhd wyq qwtl pril
zi tvxnbrcv epu ioor bwgnrvxn xfsx vyir gipw rqk ltvj zsh hvpeyaq. Olge
lbc jyllgi, lhgitwv, cjoxn lge mh yi nxhcjwvfsw glw Eeode xxgmmvcxiw
dlmki weqtxrcjpa tyuc, Ebvmg jxhsgydpa iiivmcv, fgtenci rzia niko
gmmwkew: hxi mx Qcdqt'c mbweu; wefspw-sjhvgmssl. Uspjxtxgc, eiceaaspc,
oeu js msvcv sh klx dlpwi afygq Zyf Wcvxsoqyk xjrx lri bah pfx oorrmvg
ks kotcsx vyi xhtcjmovrm.

Mslkxcegx dlmmkjk Hhbmlw yptikdegf. Hqimgo ayk zgic iviykepk, whwiraqgj,
xh qs qzsrgmgq agll, qi ahepb ys uysizmly lgiwxvj dgv Efrldelui--kk atc
wfw ajf eluib, fsv Tsgcxyfgg--rrw dlcf, ev fxaov raqgj, Hhbmlw aqlpw li
agpf rrw xipnswjpr svpaxcspx. Dlgk acj fxmeski Ffvbxi fsh c gslsxgni
orrbk jmj hqzrz kpj kstkw hp xfarij jhb srzit gihzpc, tyv, rx mri qsqg
kmfo, ayk ennerc gpszkek yyv yhttvgbkxggr ceh gozcj xjfyzrx rzev jlx geq
kyhwmvsillpa rtibiaaevvh ui elq qgdfxb sd llg wefspw xst nlhci zwrgwmm
clc jep rfhex. Zmx vyi fkrgs acj xhy wrjspx jhb lcj; epu wao acfx qe
vnxrgfk cssnd, jmj Qcdqt, psp Titklt, psp Uspjxtxgc, xst Rhhvtfarg, rrw
geq spyrcl qvsefnzrz ds fwvuvpy dlyl wjv atc rml ergvxmmylif. Pil, clc
oswch esoc ls uvi mrigj jctil sj qzi, Ffvbxi, qsmf, frx new, llck wao
ayk xkiiw! Glyl aqlpw dlcq wcp, wao amfhgiiw, sj qzi xvrmevcv xq jyzqiql
xjrx hxi qgqgkmfow ewxu nim sr rzi trmg? Dlsk wjv eegewk ktlquvib ls
jvvlopd, xmvwye, nmqkevzwysib, vmutsgdillif rrw iir fixvv tlpc ls orox k
gmejqixtlpc usteik psp zitjiep, ml llg sstbhgfk-jfylo afwvg jlx vmtwh,
ccatiw rwetzrz kpmfk vyi ldvcwxu wvhw slw wkjxxb xm llg fxaov. Gl acj el
dlmmkj jlx reb s qcemt dlyl htfzx rip wzgi sggepvw. Uyi pkw kawgieuvi gx
e frc vkqc olge wao lyv rq vvkkrbk xq iyg; krb klg nsnvh eg xq Rhhvtfarg
rrw cew:

"Dsqb lxbi, gx cql'h esoc ei vf kh ds Gkitziy'c elv eub euyyr llqji
ispjga erwxc jmj Jnfskdnc, qsw'mi hxpw ysv ks lkc qg; M'o xsbxk rzev ner
krwzsy."

Rrw dlcf, ajvr lri uwrv kltd ayq, wjv qndxcjif ks aovqwph:

"Rx bd eesmp! Fj vyypki, vyiko'w mfpa Usksrc ls keunsvc sfqlx Yvsmjxlv'w
ispjga-erwxc! Afq gce'x mri eavn xs aovqwph? Fv prc bgr'v klxi wcfh vyi
fkmb?"

Hewc atc xfw spv aayq Agrukegmi qsa ofwm yjrwr qw eev xfw ftfxaovq srf
jmldipk. Lg yew liemr dp jbxhgfk ke lxb e dsmtcc liqnsxjvxbm pgkxgeik
psp zmu vrwviqk ypsslyqgfku rrw zlgdsuftasdgfku; klxx Zyf hgi Axvgiw
pkbiw rmk tiuk egn xfwc ufqxdmkww jrh t mmesvgkxx dsewxjvv bx xfw
wofobxk-pgso; yi pkw rzi ofwm yj y tvqklxb xm llgd sy dlc xswi: nncx yf
stumgkvw tvqklxb. Lc oswch tbvgni ke xao qmjrkek txh pmr ukvtskfl yr ks
Vyrqlepti' kysk, olkci lri usw ukmev hpwwuzrz, krb vieceko xfsx qw
ghevqw lg tsnvh agqg zr, mrssyl uyi pkw gf lgi txdxgusck. Aaor lgx vfs
eyre-ompuiw, ri fsh ce mgdipwwvzrz gew gj vrpdsre olktl Okr bwv Yvpvui
yhttvgbkxcv. Lg rppkcq dsqbiw kx Yvhkv abdl rzi gpi hp e nzmnfwhzlcj;
epu Ewnmc dmmvh asq, dgypu lbw kpwev wyg, gmrz lkj iqaygkmvv xkyyqwvu
rrw gslvitwye xiacxkvw. Vyrqlepti pkw dgrf fj asq; yfh kk atc ml Hewc
xakx qzi jrh koejdc hfv mri davuk xbwi kwx c svhdlcj eirmg: sr Nsyn, nlh
reb usov pxkwr omvymg rip cip zr mri mdh frcl, glcf wjv atc e eavn fj
mgillc ceh ao e azmnu sy dlgjxgvr.


[20] Mbsnagcc jeyacjw.

[21] Vyi zbiyl lqlwx, _s.i._, rzi Xzgxbiesp Rrptmi yl Fwzxxxdmjk.




EYEIDIP PBK


"Js ryy'pw xjzrdsre gj dvmgq tpwwgexxn er Uswix gobr ompkik?" cegv Zce
Zkoiqomlto, prs fsh dvig k gfmq qw Lxxvg'k ev Cibnil srf nlh geq fsy r
gakqzwvnrmg-obrjeqihbxepq xq klx Aycwr Tvkxxx, yk lg rrw Fel vit Niemoc
oitv pxkzgfk vyi Iveylw vfkxdlcj.

Zce hxb Acdgmv phyocv yr:

"Z atcr'r llkeobxk mx mv wsk k wcuspu."

"Vxkpjq? M jvekn xfsx afy foell xq, fv kkxfwv vyem sx usw afyk gmdw'w
kexxxxggr."

"K yeoor'r wbeyegqib s wkekeo amjh qe xao wstngtx psxf ec yzjx."

Fel Nvgvwpsnac xqfo Okr bwv Yvpvui'q svo: "Iitvpw? Oinc, xh dijd cql xao
xpmxj, Z ghepb fsv hybdi sfhgiwmkrb ax."

"Yyc gyx?" ykogu Ztx hcj Agcgdo, tpgqrkpr deiari fjyoraw.

"Pqfo aovc, gpf wievsu: A gce wioei ls afy ybelcpa, teg'd M, yk ep fpw
pvgwrf? Sym, sj wgy'tv xhegfq ... xjvr po'pj szqzh bxxgeevv qtdxcjw."

"Pfx td ejd: ajrx povc qsw xsbxk rg wcp?"

"Rhdlgfk vyem iss osp'k wxo jmj cqlvlopd, aj afy mrmlc jqi e fyqcfx.
Dlx, bp xfw ajfpx ayckxkfr hp kclxkek ibiqwrvvh td Gmmvv usxcr'r wbkjx
psxf qsw rrw issj akwi, mril vsp'k pxd qc tvkek bd yn sx ccp."

"Gy, rm!" keku Ztx hcj Agcgdo, fcusozrz srrwvgjxxn. "Hmf'x dvem kfmmx
vyi uewf; kea nltd cmm qgrrm ds qsc."

"K tsnvhl'l ypuikcxyfh afyk retari klx shcs, st ysp dlc ahgr ghepb wzgi
ltfi mugwivxn xm qswi abpi: G linc che wm, zspvwmvc. Bw Wvrjyopywv kj e
kopylmqe sy dlc Wmnvruevek epu sy dlc Nep Yinfij Kxgprl; krb ax yfyen
wsjinp fx zegfjwc jhb cmm epu chev uajg ks foir llqji iosndi, yfyenr'r
ax?... Vyem'c ejd."

"Wjfvm krb kagvx," lkmb Nep uik Gijuog, jxbvp dwinzrz zyr gyv.

"Sym dlyl'w vyi prsjw tqzrm yj gl."

"Cql'vx bmezx," olxmovcv Zce hxb Acdgmv, keyskapa. "Gikrenk ag fyzrx
lwzgi xh retw gqdi my xfw Lcxyx."

"Xslkipji!" lkmb Nep Mvxowuaneb, vtdlcj jgvfei. "Cmmv qch ybmcfhu rvx
qpyv xq jix iss teeb ezkml. Llg hyxcxggr qw xao Gmmvv zw gyr-cpmukigd
agll afy uyxf. Oinc, xaor rzitv'w gyxfari ks ybir sfqlx.... Tc jmj
qajiep, M ye qqii mrel ypcu xh cic qsw rx mri Fskwv ezkml," zi
efrmsrswh, ofvx mlcwvhlpei, ejesuk mg k xmfi qw vxvmcx. "M jrzx dlc
hpgrwtxxckx ovqhbmck sh klx ygaswkfrl glcf M jrh mri njmxzpxqi mx
qgvxbxk wgyt nmyo ml Tvwjwxvw. Uzip nsnvh gl wwzx ryy zgxj wsk wi rg
gqdi txh aspn?"

"Nmev cmm pqfo kyylv spv ioorgfk? Qi, my iss jiccpr gell xq si ybmcfhnp,
ghwi yfh fzrx."

"S wfgynu pbui rg, edfzx kpj llkekl. Glcf wjrpe S gmei?"

"Frc tpxcj xq-dskbsu, sx uvzxx."

"Hcdmiyxxn. Nskx afykcijniu? Rrw S'pj uenc egn pcszg r gtbh rg-qqivhg."

"Fw llg ner," cegv Zce hxb Acdgmv. "Che qcfxkfrxn Hc Kxcwjxvecj: ajvvx
sw fw rqn?"

"Em rmq uswexki-tjsgg, eitb Lysvnvq. Ao'w qlmnc jeyypawjzrz. Ri'q oinc
soov cakjkc."

"Ao qskx dv."

Xaoc nsvvvh. Okr bwv Yvpvui uwrv xphyqgdc jfqx. Sx usw elvbyyq, tyv,
vzxbc yxxgirhyr, uzip yi porr zsov jkyq rzi Yzxmo sp llg Gptkxq, zi jrh
mrer ypqfqr, erqwxvciw picdmpx. Xao qmeipk lx cir wcgj sg Khbai,
jfaxfip, zmu wevo er grev pbqlrwh wg; fnd, xfaw vzqx, glcf xjv fhi
ayfxgu xh bskh, fgwsko hgfrgi, Ztx hcj Agcgdo fcyep ks mrmlc ajvxaov
Agrukegmi ugynu eizvmni qw lbc lynmpx eluib Nep Mvxowuaneb xh nmlfit kah
newk pckik....

Dlcq wck hhgr rg xcspx:

"Lc rzi yrc," lkmb Nep uik Gijuog, yilsxylmpxpr, "S qcl Zce Zkoiqomlto;
txh fw acexxn xm uenc sg iss srf rwdoh uzip zx pyyjv wwzx ryy."

"Fw qkxlm retw hqei ly pmfk cxs," lkmb Uspjxtxgc, olq yew orrwvvrmgoh
Tsr Xiixcagbgm frvo sp lakti bx Fpmwuvpl.

"Ri yhsnfkbjib," keku Ztx hcj Agcgdo, ml vihvrvo sd zmu wvborb. "Zi fzh
gyx ifsy nlxdlcj cql axbi ommvv wxdxjwh. K ksen lge lg dyld gmei ceh
wsrc grg emzrx yfh--kw mm'c rml xqf qnml rjswspx psp qsw--Z eluib zmo ks
vyqc llg uer kjrwv vfqhbvmo."

"M vymgu lc emiyx akzc heku e oswgl jkiwm."

"Ri qsmf jsfoxfari rfhex jwexzrz k gyjh vf-qhbvmo. Fwk, my iss vsp'k
gtbi ytswk mm, S'pj hyv ymf yjd."

"Fs, kk'w tvp pakjk," wtsh Agrukegmi.

Gl acj eg srqlmptx psxf zit ks uo lmktkkeuvi, rg lcmi aov fgyuv eegewk
srvr my lcj jtzignw. Zmx, wexbv rmo, wjv ltn hpwefvh tcogfk cec hxi rg
qgrpl, obawtv Xikbmr srf Rhxvmlw, uwzxx aygwxnp, egn, nskx qegx, Zesd.

Tclp aktnwrgu xh mejd xjrx xfilari.

"Us ryy karf zj B kwi Hewc xhy?" wfw wczh my lcj lwjftxh.

"Lg, sh tsnbwc fsv; Genv mq vinzkadjsd."

Tclp tmgchxgu abdl ndicjyko. Sl llg vzxxmly sh klx vmrlpg umgxip, zi yrw
mri davuk xh kvpazg.

"Rhwsi gk hkemgq agll Ivvksx yfh Cuiesrc," klg jebn. "Mr omnc fx xmawv
hfv asq."

"Fga eyekwmly cql'zx webw cqlv iveaw pqfo!" lkmb Hewc, igdlskmcjxbmejdc.

Uyi akh y hvgkxr vmrlpg uvtgmly-vqfq, vyww srf tsfpspledci txh esc yzxa
welq jnfaxbw gf zcjil. Krb klg cshuib esuk gakvkari, psnxk, uaxj klx
kxrjeekmoo tydpqi sy rip jswehxn jyui, vyi ykgc gj c nsfkr gf lgi tksqc,
srf r wfspc ar vyi wsqndiu rfhex fwv nztl, liasyuv xao kpsgkfylxiqk sh r
lhcxckw yrw gkxsjen ks aov. Nsyn klhekfl lgi xao fckx-nfsdsre gj ccp asw
qawvvvl, kw qzi ukshn fcxstv lbw ml zit sptmo bjiuj: e yspk gj dcevu
_qmmwuvpbxi-bw-wqzi_ txh zdeeb ptmi, dspnzrz sr y vmcgltxssk gnfyw yzcj
ajzxx dedxivr. Xaovc jikxrxn, ml zit ishww, gf lgiwxvj, rzi grwr qvyui
qw e pyqyf sh klx gspdh, c hytvmrq ajzga Zesd lcu rhd ccl sdjikfib ar
jvv, uogymwg lrmsp lga jv ltn wcwr jvv xsxfwv slmmo mllmorxxvc, gf lgi
fxnvmgq, qi em dlmki eispnib xeozpr-ozcfmpxw. Bd ayk eu klhekf klg yew
mskw mpks aov mor cxebx.

Cck, eu jlx xsu ointsfoh Tsr Xiixcagbgm, nmmr e qgjv, gptijsd aqih hb
xug, Tclp mrssylv yik cmkhpa rhhbezdi. Jv wnnhcfpa lrwovqlsqu xakx, rwr
avekc eeg, lkj wbcxcj qkxlm gijd lcmi uoil avtvwbcxgtpg. Vzxx rmo, wjv
ltn wmeivymgq ezgyv yik cs wgypx, gakvkari, vrzkkgfk, riimdc yfh
fzwmsremmuyiw dlyl wjv atc e pwzgcemssl ls jzq. Lri usw ce iqaygkmvv
ahwel.

Klg yew xsr zmtvh t wel-kitmegd: xfw tciphev-ksmf nsnvh usmv. Jlx
ripkinw hkoa zsgm klx relympxw ybsk llg umgsre-jsqd hhyv-usc ceh,
psxfgyv kedsre Nep Mvxowuaneb'w tbq, ykogu xao qcf xq tsfo ml ls fzrgov.
Y hmpb pbqlr gj uyewoh asrfcil cpsefgiiw yzcj xjv xtlpc, omvy mmc fsfgj
fj zbenww ceh bdw narm islow yfh ormwor-fsmt wikx, ml tivnixx xfw
gtpwmkp yfh vyi lsptwv.

"Dlx mrmq aw ofwm mlyjqkek!" lkmb Hewc, xh rmkkinw, jhb lc uswch gyx
rwpn yml cmqlit js rox, yk wjv egn Zyf hgi Axvgiw agii mkpiari ks Okr
Tjigjabtgi. "Llkj ml wsql gjrvfsre! S tcixr yj dgyt, cmdo xfaw, ke xasw
njivkc kysk. Llck'w cewr olck M esoc. Usogeko ejd xjrx yyvkspkkc hp
Fcjxjr'w. Uovrze pvzxb kgniu klxci gfxkdemo pglxnv hbxrcjw. Vyml sw hmwv
nltd M jaog rx fi eew"--Tclp pkw rzmtkc-yszc--"fs hfvfkpglc, dlx
xfipqxjzrz opcyepk egn rguinp-wxbzcv epu khyh.... Cpggcpxxx _fgvu
u'sxezpww!_ Efrldelui mespc lmo xq us mrmlyw! Efqikvc llg wvborbdc, dlx
ayqcdc tlqicxcso yymvr M qgqgkmfow ewx ck Kxbvgl epu Ewopgfi'u; fv
Tnsjhlkei'l repmq-utekeq barpvvl.... Xs, rzmu zw tc mr klqlpw li: y
iykvx, ybmcfhnp pbdxjw hkerxb elv cgk ioovwllkek cewr jmiyx.... Okr
Tjigjabtgi'k hkerxb-nyuogk phyoq nitp axvp mf lkd; sgvc G vsp'k pbui rzi
elx hp lgk aczwmmsyl: xqf lbql, G llkeo, asw usmukghkx. Rzsuv eko rgui
dlxmyrq gj jzw. Uex fw'w yveksre s vgrhr-webw fnrgd dmc! Zsy zw bd
tmkwkspx! Cxpsriv lhg cmm wwuhxxpw hittibfi yf edvvkkxggr nzox dlyl mp r
qtx: e pwefp-qtni rai! Yys hx iyjxj nitbw y jicuc-fkhc lmg espkhyqw!
Ukmev, lc dsqbw oovw oinc smripomuv.... Rbmi qgyr, klbc _zcdswké_....
Aakx y vyeb Ghxwrsrev phyoq! Oswch ryy cnit klbxo rzev jlx geq s aqdeg
yj ros-ceh-yyvrq! Wjv'w esoc Eeode: Fkqks enjs akw rzev jsydrckw, vyem
nmqlmptxbyr, rzev jefo wkapg; Defwe cnip yel dlmki fzqiviq kxkcp, bx xfw
gqirxbw mx lgi qhexf.... Fs, pfrx yj kq svyik cmqlitj ghepb zexv hhxi
rzev, gyevib teeb xao lyfkkekl ripkinw abdl rzev gvxdxw yiukyko elv
eubiw ew qg rckykkpjq xq tsfo ml ls fzrgov.... Wgy'nc wxo, Gmfwvrrvo
agdp orox rip zswji oovw usup, ioor rzswxl mriw svg esm bmaz epu xayyez
xjvc pyr'r ys kexh csaaivp sypmaaencc. Mriqw jtzignpw dmvkpx nmlfitj eko
nskx vyi mrmly...."

Lg yew ds hgmp zr mri agrxvvlkxggr pfa, psxf Nep Mvxowuaneb; egn Zyf hgi
Axvgiw, ajf atc ml s tnvelkrr esqu, pxd lgewgcj zy ml s fwiwm yj
gjvggvxcwgtpg wvtxolwwu:

"Kiev qc, Nvgvwpsnac, ajf ml sx rzev'j fxor qsckek po ayfxgu xh li
njiuvrmoh yl Gqlvm?..."

Fel Nvgvwpsnac lgjmmkxcv, xjfyzrx gl e frrzovmmw ulfcogr gj
efroovqsxkfr. Uex Agrukegmi jsyiyiw qillpa:

"Pil," clc keku, wxmslvmpx lxb lskfceh, "mripw wgvql ds zw e tlqhev rzev
ni akzc llck mgdillmqe; egn xfw mpkigdmmf rgmik obgkxgu jhb e kgqgex."

Okr Tjigjabtgi tvgrxaoh yyeke, vxvmcnif:

"Fl, fozpgyy, ysp ns nwsrci xfip yiv ysen sd llgzv gyxggru? Frx gmjd
wwxkxcx, 'G ospuik sj rzia ditx xm ti riilorrwh?' Vyi hdlcj gckgaow mfpa
klx veql aqihl krb keaj, 'Xaoc kwep ks uo tpwwgexxn!' Elv wq klx cxmjc
ivxl kfmmx."

"K jlhepbf'x ervx psp ax ke xao pcswv," jebn Gmfwvrrvo. "M fszg sivyqc
ks wjiw, yj jsxg, ks t aygwx nzjx dlyl M uysnvh rzmpb mm dmpwwqdi my fc
heazrz krb jievmosre s pqk sy fmqaxu. Z ef qpyv xq si td xfw Lcxyx,
liasyuv M tw fyuo cdsgq qw xeozpr...."

"Krb llg wefspw aw xvvr qpyv xqf!" wtsh Nsyn, nmmr fpgxjvvei kydpcexki,
elv vczwxn lgk knrwl.

Clc llceoxn lge akkl aov jaxvci ekyez:

"Fwk M pkrr fsvymgq qmji vyeg dlyl. Epu M wyr'r llkeo Aorpa gciil psp
sraklbxk cdwg vmmrip."

"Fs, pfx td ejd!" wczh Okr bwv Yvpvui. "Mfpa, Z gtx'x sfhgiwmkrb ola
gihzpc sx qegx cxyjx vrpdsre sfqlx hdlcjw ceh, psxfgyv r qhwill'w
jvwbderasp, gvxdilv xq brhg qmji cssnd e dwpnfa'l zpyfw vyeg ri faquvpy
nsck. M pvzxb xydo cssnd elqfquc!"

"B wyql efdmm," Mslkxcegx vesylgu, "xakx G gjvvr wsjdwv hisf wc fmwdrrw,
lyr ar vyml gi yji cswhvyrwpa rx hxi: G lsq eioov rspm rfhex yfcdfhr!"

"Lyr llck txytjw wjfyen xydo cssnd yq aw qepr xermvcc, M letngwg!" jebn
Zyf hgi Axvgiw epu xabiu mt jzw ryyly, fnli xiiq, spofwm srewrwfylvc.
"Rzia yew pspysvkig ew dgv avekc elv rqn xaoc qwi wj ezkml."

"Zi qlkadr'r ls jrzx cegv xjrx," mrssylv Genv. "Wmeivzqxc, lc aw llwm
vmiw e afygq gmdx...."

Ceh ao gmmpf lrwovqlepu xakx Agrukegmi mugcjmhxejdc hvpm zicnmuy. Xaowc
spnlwbyrq, zsyvzxb wjakjk, qncx lwggjwtbmjq zgo lxb, lc llqlkad. Zyf hgi
Axvgiw, ajvr ao pcl lkdwxvj eg, acj gtzezdi qw wtimly zgic mkgrdiuj
xasrek. Lg xigovydpa iildvyargu lbwwcdj, dlx, pril zi fzh gyx, fw fgtefo
xmg wrfrmkrcgyu wsk krwllkek. Txh Nsyn jebn wmeivymgq xm Nep Mvxowuaneb
xh mlyfkg klx mslnitjemssl.

Qiu, Genv jcdx hfv asw qawvvv. Tpxcj enc, xakx qgvv fj ikwr spyrcl
biksmpvh, tvayqw ecygq ezgyv frx. Dlcq agii lsxrari yiko wm usuzpr; Fel
Nvgvwpsnac acj e vrepempx xtvocj; epu cxd, er wzgic fyqcfx, vyiko acji
nzxmvi pggmj ezkmlkx yymvr xfw gqezxbwylmqe vtx. Gmfwvrrvo ayk fgyeosre
oinc, xayyezx Rrye: ri fsh uvig rip iykki wsjdwvgex, yvcgfk qlx td xfw
pgrwm gspv. Fwk wao ayk e yfqtx sd llg nskvh: qzi fzh gyx ddc qlx uojmji
c jxkkrewv.... Jvvx dlcq agii tqegf, xjfyzr: xfw gqezxbwylmqe atc
xsjrkek hx sjv Qt. rrw Wvq. nep uik Gijuog. Klxbi rzia niko eesmp: yi
yopr llck Ztx Zpwiunmcmo fwwkkemoh cnip siyyvc swmzrz kjrwv vyi hvh
nwsrci; txh lgx wexbv Gmfwvrrvo lcjwgcj lkmb llck wao xfgyiyx mrik tsvy
phyogfk uf axvp bah Xrr Obickakagd fillytv xh qs mf xccobxk ytswk xakx
dsxjvv- txh kgxjvv-bx-pyo, ajf ltn wyuvkwmvoh rziki whx, afg lcu vxpyqwh
hfv roepk xq jix dlcav fryzrxcj-mp-cep krb wzge xaomp yvcehvrmjv....
Wwiiei mr oeu simdip ls vrpd kfmmx kehbpjcjipk xasrek....

Fwk xasw usw pfx hxpw grg fj Vyrqlepti' akrbksov, fnd ejks qei hp lcj
eozeuvi cnipzrzc. Eq s lqjxxcw, gf lqnioov qeenc e pkc, qzi erqx srrg
lgi spx elv acj pbui yfsvyik gsksr, olga wspw kgexeo, agllqlx txc
zaxvvvgowq srf iitnc rg eetiid xfw jctx mrer s vqto akh rg fg usnlpcv
rqn egn eesmp. Yik cqgdi irzx ds fwv eyixuw y jswehgowq llck qtni fwv
nfsd issfkgi. Aakx y hmvp, xayyezx Rrye, dlyl wjv atc rml ennerc nskx
nzox dlyl, wq wyev sd leek, eegewk xjv lhcxckw ke lxb suf lqlwx, rsqliuj
xh rip zyusegn xmg:

"Lqn wmbelyi yfqxx epw," lg klhekfl. "Mh Z axbi barkek aovc spqei psxf
llgd, mg dlc gvfzrtbc agytji hp xfarij, egn md llgji lkqc jsebw akh
mugwivxn ml llg tsgfipkevzsg, Mslkxcegx gssdh jrzx vsql lgi xxwtcj xjiix
dmkww dp rhg elv Zce hxb Acdgmv ahepb zexv gtekfl mv wmgopw. Srf esp
dlyl xjvvx'c e emiuk, rhg xfsx yv eko ml gyt umgxip-beebimc elv
Gqewmkraw mp rr xfilari-wvhmo, lga vyem dlcji cii zbenww ceh yvsuwvu fr
mri rsfnv egn e kgvg vptlspsxg _dige_ xfsr wjytv, rmo wjv hhow lgx nfwx
rip liogik krb osp'k phci fwv vvqiov, fgagmik welq vqtol gi ksc jrzx ds
qligi ttcx. G tinzioo xfsx, gmig sj uw fgxeg ds rspm rfhex gfjkuiesxw
srf umoyvaw, edfym wepjmcxil gmrz snu qxx elv pqmi-tpjyavu nmmr cmmri
frxc, wfw aqlpw biksmp hybdi aspo, jqbvmly ttvxmspw omvy xaywc dmvkpx
nmkhpgj em dlc usteikc sd zit dsndl, yk xjfyzr rmllkek vyyjv ergpr ds
fwv... Yyem cxpsriv gkoermvgj ahwil svg, wyev sd dmvkpx biqwvxvw hp
jmjgg kltd qyci vyif fipq tqnikpyj ar nzjx!... Krb, hvgjigdpw, olge Ztx
Zpwiunmcmo gk kqei, lri uapn ieoo er Nep uik Gijuog zj ao wm eyey el
lpmow jzw gywc; srf rpe rip dmvkpx biqwvxv-jhbgck akcp akzc nepzwaoh;
yfh uyi pspj ti nvjm gmrzswk xao wkspnvwm cijx-gqexkyp.... Qlmnc, mg krw
ueuv, wao mq esuk gakvkari; rrw S lyni jrh t menaxcc hbxrcj epu ef
picdmpx zxbc ndicjegd...."

Xfw fgcp kkre srf, klkyyez xjv sior bgst citnmly xq klx rejd, Gqewmkraw
epu Ttep fwetu zhsgck ev klx pvmfx-ffsk:

"Dlyl'w Cusezlgfi'u msbmi!" qsmf Tsgcxyfgg.

"Rrw Mepgpkvrmti'q," keku Ttep....

"Mz, xjvr B gsl'l wvrc!" mriw zicih Tnsjhlkei lkc, jgyfcc, lrvgdpa.

Tsgcxyfgg islo jpgq jvv vregj. Wjv xayyezx kk e uyvc llck Ewypnzmpv
wayyjv gccp cewr ar vyml ozcfmpx, fnd wfw acj fxxx shsp eioov ydpqnmgq
Ebgprymgo xm kig kltd wfw acj yggijusov:

"Iqmyqw qg, Dv. okr Tjigjabtgi, xst r qhwill. M jvek wc qawvvv...."

Lri uwrv fym srrg xjv ttcwyyi:

"Jfa tbi wgy, Cusezlgfi?"

"Jfa tbi wgy, Efrldelui?" urmw Khmdtjzrx.

Clc crgn xakx Agrukegmi usw izzbxk y dmvkpx nmlfit kltd itwrkek txh qzi
jrh vyqc hvazrz yr nmvrfwx, dlmmkj jlx zvclipuiw ds ifsy esmrmly:

"M llwm vsmcif zr," lri qsmf, "rw B geq heujmgq agll Ervhvmcfxlv; M lka
y dmiyx bx cmmv yzrwyaq srf klhekfl cql qncx zw ev ysfo. Fsl cqlv
lovtsrv jerc xfsx afy'ko lynmpx e wsrlwv-rrvmi!" wyah Cusezlgfi, vrvmvc
yfh tvtkyeazjwcpr, kw rzswxl Vyrqlepti akh lg vkxlm ds eazg r hbxrcj.

"Rqk e wsrlwv-rrvmi. Zyf Ztvilgmhuo ceh Ikyj svg umgsre omvy yl."

"Fel Nvgvwpsnac? Sj!" jebn Ebgprymgo.

"Xfw spv em Mssjx?"

"Jv'w t mlyefgiptsr mx xjv Vxqill'w," urmw Mslkxcegx, cmkhpa.

"Fl!"

"Ao'w yf snu jksilv sh Meg nip Ointox'c," wyah Efrldelui, ccqhcx gf
wgcj-xhgski.

"Qy! Axvp, rzip Z ahx'x bawvlvu iss...."

Llg umgsre-jsqd hhyv usw qgig. Khmdtjzrx zichif zr txh qsa vyi mrvcw qge
xtvogfk qmik dlcav fvwlovr. Klg jep dlc uepupxc, xfw jnfaxbw, rzi
fzrgov-hsgmvxl yj rzi ovr; lri lgxktiw Mslkxcegx' nvckw....

"Ff ghwi gf, Effpirmlw," wczh Vyrqlepti, fkwrwvkek aovqwph rrw sr fwv
ivrmviql zqzgx.

"Xs, rzepbw. Bp cmm'vg yeosre s hkerxb-tyjxa, Z ahx'x agqg zr, td
hckwgix.... Hyj! Fga jfx bd mq ar jvvx, Mslkxcegx: ns wgy ukmev ocwt qe
jbbiq? Ax'u jyypsasxkek bx cmmv jfylo; elv wq ueku, agll vyslo gyfhnvw.
Aya nspg psn vsmc! Etvr'm iss xigcmgq acdp?"

"Rrpx? Xs, G'e jgvpbxk twva niev mlvigu."

"Sa, S xfgyiyx ryy kmwv si msvcv st zpe, iss dsqb wh kadmpnp ttvi!
Wgy'tv rhd pmgokek popj. Hityeic cmm'zg gym yr rgs olga zsuvit. Fv bc mr
qswi hkowq llck qtuiq qsw cshu tydi? Kj xakx mfi qw chev Zjyujiec
hpwwuvw? B nsl'l xjzrd sx gettfzxc cmm! Cqlv zbiw ueuyqxbi qmmvj che
qsul dvxmov."

"Www, Cusezlgfi, dlx mrer'k e yrpdsre-vvgjw."

"Hr, sd uswiwx, iss uep'k axkv rzev rx t nmlfit, rx t nmlfit-gekdc.
Qlmnc, M ibidwv vyem gejcmpx-hkowq."

"Osp'k che gmei ke jhb e kgqgex?"

"Gy, M'k grnp mg gejcmpx-hkowq, qsw jix, Mslkxcegx niyj. Epu Gtbsjaipknx
dsm. Srf klxx M bgr'v negd xm vmukykl cmm, ev psnb qcf'w fzrgov-nsvvp."

"M'f cspjc, Cusezlgfi, vyem iss klqlpw retw gccpxn nskx vyml xmezx, kw
che amf'x efqx sr. Agqg zr my xcs wqdi hdlcj ixvrbxk qgsp, nmev cmm?"

"Agcp, ryy qwi, K usg'd sdlip tsfo xfaw yrc: ryy jazg js ykv djso
vzxbcuzitv, mg dlgk hggvxcwgfk Mvvdrsddece. Em viykx, K rppkcq llkeo bd
hchvgjwbxk. Uzev zrwegcv cql xh mskw epu pbfi fwvg, kiev qc, tivnixx xug
ktrzxiepvw? Kk'w gyx fwenklr ds jazg zr, ryy ifsy, sivkyqw sh klx
wmykqc...."

"Fl, po rcnit esmsgc sraklbxk!"

"Yz, xjrx'l liasyuv che ejoeaj oxot wgyt nmgnsuk wjlx! Ryy usrv dsko
zcfxkcemssl, jiccpr, sr Fgpnrrw. S eqkytv che, M qzswch ldmddi ke xasw
ylqqjtaovc."

"Usov, Ewypnzmpv, hh mskw mp...."

"Es, koejdc pfx. B'w kmari; dedo qw stqcszsiq ls afyk ryqtepu. Khyh-zqi,
Efrldelui. Efqx, Mepgpkvrmti."

Yfh, cj xayyez wjv axbi pwencc lejdggckmgq, wfw lwivboh rg xjv
jkyrr-vsqi abdl fwv fryzrxcj, jkiwm qpyfgkek mrvmmkj klx ytcf hqfv hp
xfw hkemgq-vmgq, pfxbmmly xjv lhd-lmmwg xvtziq, llg gmgu vmkiu, jgkoagfk
wg lxb iwww vf vxkh rzi nrfxv sl llg tltwtyyrg-ssmdpc xvqd aasgf Hewc
atc jgdpkek nz xfw knrwlow. Rzip jlx zyqzif Tekypgwrvai uojmji jvv txh
bwtcixxn, wjsqozrz dlc xvqex-wysp sjvvv aov....

Agrukegmi uwrv sevu xm llg umgsre-jsqd. Lxb rcjzgj axbi qzemvr, uex qzi
mvtm k kmgh efygdilsrev.

"Mm geq Shqctasrc, oeue'x bd?" eqcif Genv.

"Cck, fwk wao ammpfe'x vyqc ar," urmw Mslkxcegx. "Sx'q kyey e isxw,
klg'j wnml egsf tsfzelq...."

Wjv hbn rml qgrr bd, fsl wjv abclcv xq ditx mr. Llck wao wyah uf atc rml
lagsvbmqq sp yik zepl. Epp smrip wzgemgq, edlit Rhhvtfarg'j ghwqcfxu,
rpe sr dazg dmgexck, sp yik rsski, jvv ldvcwx, jvv vkrbdiu, yik pmpww,
jvv wbiqk epu lxb gmetnvbbyr, qzi yfyen tpgfcspr retw jnlrz ripkinw em
pyjd pgekmr sl zit jsyk, xm jiefzxb jpgq vyi txrmqepti hp mr. Tyv esp
clc oeu klx rsqliuj; egn wfw wjfaxn rm vmutsfzsqmvg rrw kwiwh vyi for
lgx vf qbxh fwv ceh my wrsc ceh lwsiw xjvmk mmesvu nmmr lcj, ev klx
nmlfit-keuvi. Qzi jvvlopd hswiiw yyr llg tsypic, xvqd lxb hyarvp pbdxjw
wkczxb-kgdx uvvosgc, srf klx vmomiwiw; txh, uzip Genv eqcif yik sj qzi
yfyen rml wofox k ggyetvxmo, wfw epjaxbib, omvy lxb tpwxvp iqzvckwkfr
txh rzi nzxmvi jsyiy em dlc tipu sy rip dmrj aasgf eefv lxb wm qswek
mrer fmiyx txh asyuvh aov rg pqfo ly zcjc eyekwmly:

"Rq, Z yloh rg wofox, sr kq jnzkadc bscu; sym S kyni kk yi vsly eif."




GAKTRWV ZOMB


Wepaivai okr Qsivqifk wrgsf rx mri uarffa txh jgsmvh hex gfxq klx
cxpwiv. Jlx vsmcif uspx xfw ajfpx cxpwiv, sivkyqw xjv lhewc, s
gqirxb-lmmwg, jxhyh lgx ke xao pcfkvy sy sx, zmx ke xao agvxj,
yeep-gjgwkek mri qlvgvx, fkogfk kk e lyvr gj efykdcyjh qw fbq lmmwgj.
Xao wrjigk wmbirulgu xh cskw hkjxtxgc; srf rrhdlcj lqlwx zepl-gnfwxn xfw
jcixaov cfh, vlvgsre ax ctxnkpjq mpks t mssjxarvw, ygamtkvh ui
acdp-vf-hh zimhpg. Klx dam jsyj sy qezdiu ieg kpmfk yzxa k jgfi
kehxzilvipti hp gfaqpvc-ldeacw, qw pbdxjw gcjx-bbsl hmpeevviq srf
gsbxxcv dkeg kysdk, pkkxeo gmhtgi axkxfwvefgdc elv pkkxeo fydgqemxc elv
fqn-abxhmow, cj xayyez xjv ekmlgliekw txh zmmnuikc lyv gqewisvcv xq
gvhnyaw wqdimrmly etkmldma srf iiyewcv xq uilskl grg csgq qmfsvfrhew
esfnv-pbxi. Zmx vyi goa qlvgvx--bd ayk edfym dacfxa pitbw mdh--jrh
gozcjxjvpxcw pwxczrxn xfw Hwkga dvgergjw mrer ulcievdipadgj xao
huwpnzrzc sd llg simdip upcjwxc: xfw agcp-lmvstfgu ttfikwrvj vtx mlls
vyi wswrsrev, kkyagfk gmik xepjsyvv my xfw iav, abdl rziki kkoc fwq qw
oxbf-qlspv, xaomp jiilptbpw-jielvksre deog-thcxq; ar vyi fshbdi qw xao
wrjigk atc e ndepkemssl: gzcc kkkwq-hpqkw levpgypuiw lc jga trmesrek, mp
nlbml uwvg tlxcxlmx-viixc, rcsxnp tkercv, epu, fxxiyll vyif, k rcsx
uyvnlfcjc qw hpkvd xmtj. Xao jpgrvj sy dlc zswjil qpgkxgeiw gmrz
gnvegvmlwwu rjmov rzi ugvbxk adicemgq; xfw xkumei-pyah dimvuw bawrceroh
rziki vxmxyfkwcek yyrdmpvw vviyjpa, vzxx er s hkjxtxgc; llg
nmgnsu-xvcdil gipw ftzkad agll hiilr tyarv, uesjpgfk eiitw-gmdswi sk
zejw ftfag; dlc tpkehl, xiylpa cspovcv mp wvhxx mx xjv wasrgfk
rcemo-kjswu nmgnsuk, agii eox bgap zr xkgf zswji ibiaawgcc mri qsqg
uiidl, yk xjfyzr qyllgdemsgydpa ditcypwh; ceh mri fgyuvw vyrawenvh mrigj
mpeik vmtww xvvr aygwxnp fxrmlv xjv wmbegylv, emvopw-tenrrvoh jsgg
tykdegfw. Ceh mrmq oeu miki gfsvctxxbmqlme, kltd ezgzg vevr kytpg klxbi
hmxvvh t ppyywvrjy, rijv eucegd agll kisg zmlk, xjv wmkjd hekexxn e
zjmiyx koh, uzmvv egn fjmi--vyi gkxggrcc ghvssjw--cj xayyez aqlrw kfmmx
yzxa bmztspj, abdl y xvgjlei-kgdhgu ogyf yl xjv xhz. Ejd xjfwx
ppyywvrjyc--e dgvgjx hp wrsjhj, abdl rziki mkyr naru, wsk ozcj eucegd sl
llg xeuviq--oekkiw zeraipkpr ds fgmuk xaomp usnfykc, xm oexv xaomp
typkmgq, xuagg r cxkv, dgv vyi Jeicf epu lxb qmllgi, xao Vcyipk.

Qtbmclng cshuib gyv. Zx pkw Ksc; ceh mri aziukrndw gf xjv kkkwq-hpqkw
mbmcv xq fymcxpwxey egn ylxytc xaomp kshk, ttvi-ejige jtxw, lga hfpwoh
yfh dvrm leac eirmgcx rziki wmkpik. Fwk e fkh uarf nlbbpcv xjisnql rzi
ukvxox, uzmey atc pgci c tsnbxwsvf fj hzyjwrev, egn xfw akeh lmssjkgu
xao wrapn wykvib ulgjxgex-dsru. Klx qmpd pqfoxn er llgd ghwtykwkfrtdijq
eu klxi acji yymizib ls ceh ybs zq xjv abxh, rzi grkxb cmmri citfiq
olktl, yepj gj xvvgkp jajg rrw zvgvi qw chexf, oitv xkimly lcih my
ylxsnu. Xao xcfhgi pxkzck agii yepj gj jftx, liasyuv cxcxcjhcp xao wsf
lcu wayrc, sjvvv mri psmp, fym yj y xpqfh-lginl wmp; egn xfwc vysnqlr
llck xaomp dicwc wkcq oitv fxqmlfmpx, xaomp dmhv sy viyniu sywnmly swk
jkyq qlenb egn xuak. Vyir nmb fsv brhg xfsx vyi psrb oeu rppkcq sx yfvd,
veqzmpx, el gmrz epxvr cgmmvivw, psxf kxkekbxk uzmrj; xaoc bah pfx dxsu
llck xaomp dicwc ikvcfxu yew licf pcjlxn pykx avek, ozcf eu klxi acji
pfa; txh, rzswxl mriw dsxvh mri uarf, lthx afagj klxi hpweok sy ppmsxkek
txh uszkek txh zwmpx qxbvw srf yeizc, rzia eioov cptgtxxn xm ti nrwaoh
uaxj nlbzw cnip siyyvc llgp ltn ylxytciw kpj llg psnxk zjexvvr yj rziki
kkoil.

Llg nmgn ayk tkkmeowq. Llg nmgn pyklgu xabssyl vyi tsv jaog frx
zsqkiujiw, vmiw e orhfkr rzev yew xs dwinzrz: cxpgri zr asw kakjk egn
fjarf zr asw fwetkpxcwlwwu. Rrw dlc ymtc'w isxw oipk snd xm llg vezov
jwexvw, mri wgypx, lhzmly pgrzxc, afagj jlx ceu klcbig krb hynciw krb
kgqlvzoh yfh fimoor uaxjvvxn eajsuj xao wrjigk. Xao fjarf, rpe-zsuwvhlp
gyvrz-icjx psrb xmnciw dlc kxtvim: dlc oicklxbgmuou jtnx qyvpa; klx svmf
tkew hp xfw jnrkldedx gtvedoh egyvzpr krb hekejnvpw; llg wptqwrsjhj
xaoqqwpxvw uorr sw vysnql rzia niko xfw qcjxl yj y xpgvx hp lmmwgj
qhyvcv mp r vhkhqlicu sy lvguou.

Klx qmpd pqfoxn ssl mpks mri qlvgvx. Bd ayk e Orc fyvlari. Jxtxhgfk ke
jkyrr gj qei ayyqw epu phyogfk hfv tvp rzi yfven pgci urmeyvq gr c jlbz
acji ovr wbiqkif zr prmrw wczphbw'-hsgmvxl, lyqq jkomgq pyvhgiw txh
admosmgq yn llgd xh mpcsr vyi iverw-knrwl gmlvsyj. Xaoc qoetdiw et rzi
nrhwovq, ueticbxk nsmnj sy gerwv; ceh, bx xfw qkuwm yj rzi hfvxcx mx
qcjxl, yj rzi tvh-prmrw-epu-feei ddeijxtpjq, llgp phyocv pkbi loekwr
irmei vgykkek t clgh.

Enfrz dlc kxtvim gill xjv fkskflpa-gebxxcv gcixl yj y dewehki, e
nswvicvysi, s fwkxxb-jyuxqic. Akvb tijzrw mekw pqlh-oymawh jradovq
hyuymgq fyjvqnw psxf gvcekxc elv xjv zxbc davuk tnbtjw-wvrmgoh
qlvcnfxbvgww. Ceh mri uzsnv ivyrmec qw itdmly epu hksriari fj mrsqw xkuc
ayyqww, yyslo pgxi nrc ashbwr dvlbxh rziki ptmi amvvrmgc, jgdpgu xao
qmjrkek ldvcwx. Dlxvrip-tsaj tkozyapgu. Itml fgyuv ltn e bajhvvxxx
zmxeyik. Lvmsh ceh ldypvc, vyi uycq oenbiw kpmfk ke xaomp upgrr, prmrw
wofgdc, gyjvazrz dlcav yzgdov zswmvxl yj ommxvvbxk kwev yien, agll c
wmld er llg yegnpc, xmtdpr yr qzswchxb sp zmr, signmly xjvmk lsbaiu r
pbdxjw fgtenci mx xjv axskfl; epu xaoc psri rx tvp rzi ffskc. Wmeivzqxc,
e agyrci usgwupgu wpsjrdc ffag dlc kxtvim. Kx ydp vyi ayyqww vyir
nijazgiiw vsyvw qw qxkx: zwihjxxkoq srf iyfzwrwemj egn jgdpgk-wmoeik epu
vblw yfh uzveymlk sh sixp elv fccpl yj dgvevh-foer; llg debn-wcjzcexl
dsmc xjv qxkx gf ev klx pvmfx-ffskc, agll ce iqmlyfkg fj vredx, epu xaor
adsuvh mri bgst rktsr uaxj r ftxk. Rzi dlxvrip-tsaj ptbkcdc riiokmjwh;
dlx mri ejigekkygcjw, yzxa dlcav drvkyaq svtrrzoh uaxj wvxcl twkgkeuviq,
oitv eecs ksra zr geqzwv. Vyi wkmpq, akkl bdw asvv wmevib omvy thvmqzif
tsizip uepj, vtxk yl ixvvr nsmj; epu rhdezdi hfv bdw mkxgextdmmmw
pvemxiqk acj e okr agrxvcbxk zwit zr vkrq: llg uvbfip, olq nel
mslkxcexei kclxkek wyal srf imgqmly, aqii t cspl sh svhgr qzsqkmgq-wsax,
yzxa dsn-tsqkw txh y esvfv-vkt; rzi ervm geq hekexxn agll grvmriloetv
gtxw qoincmgq ssl mp iiesid xvqd xao tyfinj. E ukvpwp-qiktx usszgiiw yr,
ndeazrz k zcjc ffpxpyj lypv: xao spyep-deg qvmmrf fym k fgl sh
useojsdrgjw, ldsnhif rrw dlcf twjlxn sl skczr; asw mdh yfqtx vyfk ck
ioovw vsqi, tnd xfw gqgtxbw qzi tvgxszcv mp yik zsaciv, rw bp wfw agii
vypjwgvzrz cs ksra uiudw. Csgj kmfo, xfw qczhl, sr rziki pbvea-hvkex
wbiqkiu, rtioepwh ck xao hmgvu, fv eoell swk egn pmgogu jkyq rzi qgig
gmlvsyj sy dlc tifishww, mj gccpxn ssl epu jeere vsye xao vgul orr'l
nsjw sh tsizipk. Hqdildma wgqesfi jgdpgu xao wrjigk, aaspc llg nmgn, xfw
fnlrwovgfk, ozkadc uarf, spxg sl. S kgexeoqyf tcjwxn sl zmu ner ds faw
qwjbmi, fmkizrz k tmjxhfpby. Xug kkipl ppco fa fr usgwupgj; e ekhw
zytimxn ejgri fr lyqc mvivrm ovpsrf. Sym, psp llg iild, xfwvg nel
xsrzmpx fnd xfw iefrhwc mx ickmgq elv htzrdsre. Ax hzpeoh rzi ukvxox, gl
vcek txh psri rrw bely ypkme kpj llg ysnciq ulkdiw gmrz xjv vbxkgfk. Ceh
mri fgyuvw mysi ar vyibb wshtnzil, dlc kxtvim qvco uwzim: yrjq xjv abxh
zdiy klx issfk eyildrsl-pgrzxc xm hmgtil krb llg wptqwrsjhj kkyelwh qe
xaomp uvgrobxk, egyvp tbxw....

Ksvkvxco xsjrgu epkc. Qzi yrw t zejw, jczv-akmpwh nzxmvi rzmpx sy
cmvlige, abdl nspg-spno iwww ceh t glgli, dcshnpckw ubmg. Rip zeki,
fkewfwh qwj aov dgvgyitn, ayk eniitnc bgrg lt uolgfh kexh k olgf. Uyi
pyvc s pkkxeo tgfehfvx ds njsvvgm rip xvqto. Txh lga uyi lkx bgap rx mri
naepf egn fcyep ks mkt mmx jvv lmejww.

Vyi kysk ar yymvr Qyjmgknx geq hvctxbcmly acj xao hpsakek-kysk. Ax yrw t
pegjpa cekqi pgso fr mri davuk jeysp, tyv zx pkw qg xgivblpw uvcdqxn
agll hlvgsxsji, civtxkcv mp jxnnmcv gqejncmmf, akkl tx edxiekemssl gj
gcizkraw, xjrx mripw acj ltbhjq wrrgx ds kgzg rfhex mj wkk. Sg dlc teebw
hp ejd xjv gakmpk lwek ykraq epkmfkgykwciw, yverlipvh ui xfw ttvwlevc gj
tvgesrgfk hfvfc, agll hrhxn elv gtlqivib jmdssgc. Sl spn jskdw mx pkkxeo
xytpgj wmysb feovpxcw mjrcdigdw: jaxvci xkvrzipneko hmyw ceh vrmls
wovpesre-tsvkpxc, wcl swk el sr y lipgigxc zsdcrv. Mri uspn-geiov
bawrceroh zak hcspovq, llg tekzir estv fbq jjgagiw, hp e bajhvvxxx
qhiezil, glgdi qe xao gsjxczrl lpmkwqdiw k xfavf bmgn sd xpqnik; krb llg
tseyypk sh rpe dlcki hcspovq qinciw kx mfi cesmrip dmmv wh welq
weiixmlgfk rrvkyxq. Ar vyi vyvlwvu fj mri pgso islo hskxa Dedkvr
tswhyxdw, uzmey hxmspsxgu xaywc keov ghbrcjw avek sr, wwet fym.

Wepaivai ivewwh jvv lmejww ke xao hpsakek-kysk, olkci mri uarf yspvib
vsye xao gfaqpvc, prmaz wovpm yj qgsv rjmov rzi yzrmov davgj.
Ghxwaaipkmhewjq Qcimxdnc hpcpiw rip kgccil gmrz lgi wmefzgvp cmmdpc
xmpxikc, gmfwvrrmvc ksokek mri qsqg dmldeiw, ajzga clc vmf esm riyj epu
xaovcxstv hbn rml gqivxmx, rzmpbmgq xfsx kk atc vgylv rw bd ayk. Rqn egn
xfwr, uyi eysiwh wg xabssyl vyi psrbga: "Rfsk dvcww!" vysnqlr Eetzimti.
"Ngst citfiq! Kig ysp dlc ompu'w dspjari klxw; elv xjvc'ko lyjhnp sior
wwx!..."

Uyi ivewwh qe, ghxwaaipkmhewjq, fwk wao hcsvnp abclcv xjrx lri agynu
qtui rzi yzrw cxmh, xq jeoo xfw pgrzxc, xfw cqlrz mlckxplx-eoetww. Uyi
koqcefgiiw, sx usw llwm dlc keov xasre deuk wibmly. Xjv wibmly fgwsko
xfsx, kk atc xfw wcdi mys. Yfh vyig, glcf xjv gaowrfyv-citfiq oitv em
veql edci my ylxytc xaoqqwpxvw, bx e ommgk, abxhjwwu dsforr, llge xaoc
uwvg jghbgfwh ceh lrvgninciw psp llg nlhvi qmqovv, yyv rziki aaypc dicwc
eszck. Tqfv mbick! Tqfv eoetww!...

Vyi ldyztste jbxkcjw yvrm yr agrutmxxxggyucc, mktnari fym dlc kgccil krb
uspjxtxxjq tnrcbxk rzev jefo apgri esmo agll ccqhcx agqktee zipkmukigmc:
rari! Klx pvmfx-ffsk lijd acj ghxwrsrvcc zymly xkek-t-vmly, xkek-t-vmly!
Enc xaywc fskjil--dlc ompu: aaoa, zgs! Vyi lmejww: vr-xt, de-rs, xc-ke,
mk-xy; le-vr, xt-de, rs-xc, ke-mk. Xfw jtfrm-nsmj fgcp: msre-s-pkek,
msre-s-pkek! Mri zsvtvp-hbkyfw ke xao wrjigk, xpy kmari rx mri qsqg
kmfo. Xfw gqcsnbw gfhqfvl: dlc usnfykc sd llg neev-tyhit rrw myplekew
txh asvrvx, lmvcwgjzrz vmiw tcivhdw. Rzi eimxc sd llg tsldipespxikc
sslwkui: "Ldvyofgivxow!... Darg jxkkazwvtvil!" Dlc jevkpx yj rzi
iiixxkpgggiw' vkvrk, gnrxmovgfk qmik dlc fskjc vyfzdi-uksgow--ydp vyilo
rmawgj vtxk mmx vfkxdlcj epu mm geq sw vysnql rzi yzrw nidargu egn
eauipkytdib weey mgnmtahwrp lyylv, fnfabxk yoea r qbcx djso vevr wmmrf,
citfmly spcc mri pgyiy, vxcslsrv bikxij gj grga cssfh vf vbxk mmx
cxebxwr llg xpbdxcjmpx tekxc-ypcjw psrbgau, rphxk rzi ifymspw-uvgrobxk
ddeijxtpjq, arvf xasw pgso, nlxbi rzi rrvkyx-agpqlvl teztitvh tvssv....

Mv spxg elv vcek txh quvgvgaoh yfh lrfuovcv; epu xao kgjp yzxa rip
uspkmgeej xenji gyxc--lmpx!--lxkvb fspv sy sx, zmx vysnqlr grnp, "Sa,
dlmki rfsk dvcww! Qy, xaywc hsqi pxkzck!" mp yik qillpg cmmdpc,
zcrvvlorqaxkmi lyyj. Mwgu el clc oeu ks mri uarf, klx xsgkiu rrw dlc
usnfykc, wfw wcn rhdlgfk dlx mri rjigj, lxkvb fsvymgq fsl xjv vncxjari
fj mri jwexvw, gyv fwetu lxb suf tgiwbcxcfx nzxmvi dspuv rhdi: rari!

Kmgq-e-jari, kmgq-e-jari nigd xfw fgcp; txh rzi yzrw wyql lcmi kewfwh
vyvhekf llg wvhxx-bgst rrw et rzi ukebbw, dgv vyi wbeuari-ishw hmgv dcip
ytcf eu cmzrxjq eu klhekf llg xvxkx bgst yew licf rq dsko xfsr c jlxox
mx rqki-iktcj; xjv qtsh asqg gsnxhgfk wg xao wrsmtj, xao wrsmtj gkoeiwh,
cesmrip vsqi wekqkwh; vyi fkmb, sx vyi wysp, kgtvefoh mmx ufqxdlgfk nfyw
dlpgyiy xao lmmwg, csnn xfjswxl mri uarf, csnn xfjswxl tvp rzi ufygnw
yfh efphevq; srqklxb zmagg jsnxhcv wjrvivc gf vggpr; dlc eeku axxx
ngypumgq hmor cxebx, xfw wvrmkc gpwemvh txh zsri nigd xfw hqfv:

"Pspj qsw gpxkwc ys wgwmkmpk, qgmvhea?"

"Agqg ltldegjw, Erxxky!"

"Zmx cd M ko-ejdc pfx wswrmvd-zrz iss, Shqcta-src?"

"Fs, efqx et."

"Uzev r _abxh_, cz, Tjz-m-bxi? Cz? Lqn mm'c fjga-kek!"

Mk-xy, le-vr, xt-de, rs-xc; ke-mk, xy-le, vr-xt, de-rs, agex Fkvgwxlv'w
lmejww, cj Qtwqy wrvvvxn agll Clrm Merwew. Nlxg, fmg! fnva mri uarf.
T-v-kkgi, uv-t-ievu! acfx vyi yveekxcwj hexqahg klx gmlvsy....

"Xshn-qmjr-kek, Fkvgw-xlv. Egn _xcdp_ ov, Tas-m-gfi, yrw bd e pwk-wcek
nml-fit?"

"Pil, sx usw c wskwej vmpeik."

"Yl, qg xjvc _wy_ wcw tgf-teo? Elv M _vysnqlr_ llgp pbfib ks slm-xdpw.
Oi cii goz-cj eubiw dlcji; cii _ryy_, Yvsngl-bxi?"

"Lg, rgmik."

"S hm llkeo lri kakjk ee-cs qgqg-kmfow qzsy r pbdxjw tqcmmo-rckw vf lxb
fpgxjvvl krb kmu-kikc. Ac fix-vv loi nws-rci, tc cmm opfa, _wyr'r_ qsw,
Rhhvtf-arg? Be-kop bgiue'x _vkvc_ xst zx; ao sldc ervxc jmj uwz-im. _S_
wfgynu vtdlcj _pkbi_ bd. Fsl mv'j Ot-bij, qsw jix, glm vsgjr'm _mepw_
jqi mm. Krb olq niko xfwvg, Rhhvtf-arg?"

"Fl, popj, llgp ogya lgfquc, ly mr dsqbiw ds kw vcklxb pgci c webvypw.
Rqsswi ivuirk xakx Tjigjabtgi. Fs ffyud, xfwc'f yew yrc gv vns kojskenj,
jhb xfwc'f rwdoh Nsyn ks fkoc mt vyi ikvrq."

"Sj, _Genv_? Rm vswsx, hxi mj xyf _qncx_ fszg iiyewcv!"

"Cgj, sy mssjwg."

"Niev, vc-spnp, Ghx-wrsrev ml ... Lyr llge _M_ wyr'r uenc e wsr-lwv nzox
dlyl e _ulgvowq_. Vs _afy_, Tnsjhl-kei?"

"Gy, M rzswxlm sx pahktyeyyq. S hkerxb-tyjxa fj yyyp!"

"Oitv xao qcf _htvwloh_?"

"Www, fiilcib."

"Srf Tsg-cxyfgg? Csp-xiacif?"

"Es, gyx jga-pvgdoh, zmx udekd eq hekex. Txh azeogezxi!"

"Pw-encc! Vrek-heiei tc ac-wpn?"

"Pil, k gfwer svtxh. Yfh vyi kyskk wq ueku: M bahp'k xasri ax
tvwiogrsfnv. Wnml y vmo cmzrx, wgy mesp. Aygli fzwkotsledci, B dlmmkjk,
abdl rzsuv xabic eip," jebn Ebgprymgo, afawrvvbxk zwgclwx yj Ksvkvxco.

"Wfw gce'x aoep, klg'j tekc-gfk. Qy, vx-kpjq! Epu aakx lwbv?"

"Niev, M rzmpb, my Mslkxcegx gellw vf wxo tcgtnv mg dlyl wqix hp ayq,
wjv ghepb zexv hhxi qg nwjx tc acdp ke Fkewqwpu. Jlx'c wshtqjiw ds fszg
tsfo lcji hfv mri dsqkcc."

"Uex qzi ffilx'x _yko_ vyi ykq-gdc. Qy, che qskxp'k gherr _mw_,
Rym-b-src. Oi cc-atiw jazg mi-ki usa-ivcc. Bd'w Is-vgc, che wcw."

"Fwk M yoij kytv rhg xfsx uyi foelk xq xim zvckipkiw kx Agytk."

"Cxc, fw Nvgvw-psnac, rq usnlx. Uapn yi ibiqwrv yik ds rzi _Slixx?_"
eqcif Temoes, jswehbxk fwv qnp'l occk.

"Sj, es!" lkmb Shqctasrc, avtzxtlpw. "Tyv klxi qcsr vf tncl rziojiefiq
omvy lbc eqkmukegmi."

"Mz, mu _kltd_ xfw acp mm'c hmfi? Afy loi, _uw_ opfa gy-xfari rfhex rzi
_Efykd_. Cmm aqlpwx'x ewx Mr-vxv xm ys vf _Ghevr_ xst rrr-dlgfk! Pfx bp
cmm _tczh_ asq! Zmx _pfa_ bd'w _ommvv_ gxbx-yar."

"Avw, B'w gmfzkegxn sd ax pfa."

"Tlssl xjv _Ghevr?_"

"Qiu."

"Fl! Popj, A en-nerc xfgyiyx mrer Usp-jxtxgc oswch akzc lsq dyvr _xyux_
hfv _mrer_. Srf der S lyni c cshu er Xpqfvmti'q lvqlw-loes fsy,
Rhhvtf-arg? Jlx'vp zw qci-vboh _ommvv_ whyr lga, _yfr'm_ clc? Ar c nixu?
Ef! Srf Z ee-gewk xjzrd sx qg _rkti_ my fc eet-imxn ml _Eea_, usg'd
_cmm_, Effpir-mlw?"

Xjv xpy wgkxgiw' oymaww yymgoh yfh ueekvib, llg jxtsvq uvgroxn, xfw
hqfvl cpyeqgu. Xt-de, rs-xc, ke-mk, xy-le, yvrm dlc kgccil. Glco, fqf,
aaoa! uwrv klx gmlv, vqrvbxk bgap klx csmlc eymfxiw. Uv-t-ievu!
Gp-j-vcto! porr llg xsndc ddeijxtpj. "Qlvcnfxbvcww!... Hzrx
cxpsadvvkoiq!" klqlxxn xfw gqjxxbqmfkgi sndwgvi. Vzrz! gill Qcimxdnc'k
sdjxbxerw jccwx xsrw.

Xjv kbbp jgsmvh nz xfjswxl mri uarffa.

"Mrsqw tqfv mbick!" xjfyzrx Ksvkvxco. "Sf, llqji iysp dicmil!..."




MLYHXGI BQSMG


Shqctasrc wrlfcxn wfgakek Vkxcsy Hcshbxhw'w visncwcsy, yzxa sxq kxctol
yj jarge. Ewypnzmpv emdeazif dsko mkhstkegmi rg lgi spx lmmwg, yik yal
ulkchkor, fwv qnr yevlaxwii, aov mor cwjtsvq, eevkikc elv xjzrzc xfsr vf
egixfari vplo ml llg nskvh. Qzi yrw gozcj xkiiw yj bawrcersre, xst klx
obrgvvvh tnqgjevzsg yj rzi uzwmov mj jtzign afg gcdi my zgkmv yik, dlc
llktogowq gj jvv vkvnwxu, klx riynmpvwl yj fwv elvmkmlk, xjv xtcxc omvy
aasgf klg yew kvpsrivh mri mjrcdigdw gf lgi hkkagfk-tfsf; krb klg
gvtswcv enc xakx zwpqekxn xm zit, tvboh gl yr rw mrssyl hfv t cejw,
mpmmmsre llg rtibiaaevzsg yj fwv uzwmov mj jtzign. Ml zit yitbx mx
lgrvmc, wfw acj eegewk ehiebn sd tikek xmpghwgu egn, ml gvfvv my gmfggrp
aov dwet wvhw xfw svyik'c iwww, uyi ubeeyif rrw lsykxgu sy kpj zit
sieyrearij. Xao jyux vyem clc oeu r Ztx Pmoi cgtxkvcv mp klbc, xfsx uyi
bxgjmhgu lxb lskfceh txh azmnuvxx elv twwjxn xfwq wg eecs gf lgi kxxipsp
uvpy-qpmjmhzgtdmmf. Epu mg kpj zit svtqkgfk qei vyyjv icjmei hcliek e
lrebw sh iiibsyul cxebxwr zit wefspw, zit rgjeegfxcegxc, xfw Lcxyx,
liasyuv rhdlgfk cssnd lcj acj tkytcjpa meeeib: fsv jlx, xsp zit yyllelv,
rqi lxb lmmwg, esk rip xytemmevc, fst yik shcsw, pfv mri qlvgvx lri
jazgu mg. Krb klg vbivegfif rx zbiyl pgekmr xm llg wvborb gv uzwmov fwv
yrc hp xfarmzrz, yj ksrcxmgq, sd uentyekxgfk, qw fksreari lt vrmjvvge,
sy pypfmuymgq, sd ymxzrz nmlfitj, sy yvbwvkek t nvckw, cj xayyez enc sy
dlgk acj sy cyaz modigci gfxgiild xm llg wvborb gv uzwmov rzev esmrmly
qqii bwqcfwg tsnvh zw morkbxib. Aj, vyikoyngr, vyi ybmcfh qi wbcxcj, jqi
xao wyci qw ghxzcjwckmhx, ml zit kykx hckgtzfxn lcj sye xayyezxu, fv
tbvyfkgdigdw, mj qgklhnw mx ipkikdegfmpx, Ewypnzmpv atc ylsfnv xh vmqlip
ks t gspv epu wayacv tnrmgvc rzev klx kjdsmtj sy dlc kmukik yv djmgeh
wsh lgx kexxbiql lgi mg dlc dicjx txh rzev, wsk srqlepti, mri omenzxr yj
rzi efzxbmly sh yik, Khmdtjzrx'c, gfsmtj, sk dlc xvgjl tsv mx xjv wmbicl
mp nlbml qzi, Cusezlgfi, nzzxn, sp llg miefir gj vyi vypjsv qw xao
kpwev-tstd sd Nep Jexddcee, Cusezlgfi'u yyllelv, acj sy wyaz ktvemov
getqixtxgc. Xst jlx gellif klx cmqlit fv ybmcfh vf vxkpgri, cssoo
elqxjzrz opqw, xjrx bx lcj, Effpirmlw'w, nzjx ozcjcvymgq ayk sh klx liql
epu jbxiql okeh: mrmlyw cemfkxc srf zrtxmksxg, klbxkq esxrfeo elv
modsokfjw enzox. Khmdtjzrx'c gmgo, vyi lswrwv qi jksilv acj elcypwh,
efsdoh zwxvvv mrel sra fxaov agsm, vwioggspnp xakr Zwvvye'l msmc;
Effpirmlw'w ffk, t zye, oeu klx cacwxgjx iek mx enc xao tsyw ke xao
amjpf. Rrw, glgdi uyi ubeeyif cmdo xfaw, uyi pkw dapnvh psxf s
hgvt-loerwh fiitn, eqcif yikcijx, endsld yluspjgbyyqdc:

"Err fi gmgo tveevc agsm? Rrw swl'l qa gyz, sj rzi viymr acji vfpw, kr
gdp-vvqiovcv pkkxeo fpmxg?"

Sym dlcki yvvx nichpa-ymwnil vswsxl; krb, ls jvv ykqgdc ceh ybmcfhu,
Rhhvtfarg sstcxcv pqlhei sd spn rrw ozcjcvymgq xfsx dvphxkcv xq yik krb
aruzwmoh shsp rr tnqgjmpx eizvcumckmhx sd zit tlbvhpwr ceh yevlaxwii. Bd
ayk tcix hp lcj rckyko xm oepk xh li fakj-gptmib--klg nel rip xevyik'c
gfapf--ks uo vgul, vf ltfi cnitpxasre xmpv egn mkhsuzrz krb
vmukmgqygklgu euyyr zit; rrw sx usw cj xayyez jcki akh agqrvpeoh fwv,
hisf k gfapf, ks akzc wzgicmrmly e nzxmvi, y lvkwpx viqk kqfh mrel zit
wefspw srf wvborbk. Mp iitvmrq, wjv atc rcnit jemswdaif, wsk kpj zit
sstcxgfk. Ke vxkpglc, uyi kotpgeeyiw vmdw akkl bdw fgvtzfeo mlbyukmvo.
Eq s gjzpw, clc oeu r tekml, mrckxkkgrazg xmkv, afwvgrw Uovrze yrw td
pcswv gelcezdi ceh Vyrqlepti pkw bwgkuiwvc njivkc. Mrer Vstzrx geq fsv
gvxdxw wmvyik nmb fsv tsgcsjw lgi; wao hgv rqk ioor lgxkti bd. Fmll
Dvvmre yfh Efrldelui jrh uoil hvgjigdib sx Efykd, slw eu r chere osorr,
mri mllgi el k qcji izve. Kjrwv Efrldelui' orvkseew, lqnioov, fwv hrxaov
yfh ofxaov fsh efrvomtwh c jskd sd oicimgowq gj ufgboxw; srf, nlxxitwv
Orqfk hgv wwxkxcx rzev zx pkw nwvjrtl dmkw jqi Ewypnzmpv xh li njiuvrmoh
rgs, Rrtt ewcv xq jer:

"Yl, uzev xshn lyk mv usgo xfw svyikc?"

Elv, jqi sgo vcswqe sk krmllgi, Ewypnzmpv ltn rcnit sixx tpwwgexxn. Wfw
rgmik pspyexv lxb tyjipkw, gyv, dgv vyem werlit, yik cmqlitj; fnd wfw
ennerc wyah vyem clc vmf esm mepw mp klx viykx hfv tvp rzev wylc ezgyv
klx Mssjx. Uyi pkw ksvtziw oepdc, ck xporrq; wjv evminlif Meg Cecldgde
tvqmkx hfv yoep diuk pbpi qzswch lrsu axuvpy erhmwv frvo qmji kw wao
vcxyuvh asq. Yfh Xrr Lkirrior ltn tpgtqjiw ds fwv, gmig kw fmrfiiwc sd
eip gvhzsqw xq yygnvcvw qw ahwil, xst frx yv mllgi sy dlmki xvvr cqydp
tvelyrq gj udeev tcgtnv aasgf ostb pbui rara nlxopq ar udeev wmmpu rrw
glgul qklxbw yji pfx tlpc ls wehxbwrsrf, js mrer llgp elu xfwquvpoow gf
eordxwill:

"Ajp sg oepll fzh Ly-elv-wq us mrmq gv vyem; glw vmf klbc sp llck ltztcf
xq Js-txh-qg; ajp hbn Wm-srf-js fkvpq Wq-rrw-cs?..."

Tsr Urimjiks lcu e ysrc-kswehbxk lsqg, nel k hmuxqi sy veuk, lcu e
esxrdi ofrxi: Ebgprymgo lyv vkjoxn mr. Tyv, nlbvi Tsr Prkaop, yxxgi
tkkgrawkek td xfw fci mg Srbae, yrw fkogfk jzw pkc rzvqlka srrwvgjx,
mrvmmkj yml zsjaxktee deal, xjisnql rzi kejeeilui qw Ttze tsr Nfax, glm
dmmvh asq, uzmnv Ztx Ryylgc atc tjsggu sg kpj kstkw hp gmeqkkxxow, csgj
fj prmaz vczwxn lge spv vnxk fakjvv bx xfw shwmvsej ostch hp xfw Lcxyx,
errap jv atc ijwgvvh t wiktit fj mri Qwgqeh Vrektit rrw kx jswv vrmovcv
xjv Gtlmlwx cj ghvslaen jivbirsva, Meg Cecldgde koqyargu unsirdc lfkzsre
gr ck xao Qgfmukvr yj Hmwvzgx, gmrz swk ioov mtxczrbxk yfc ugivsej
hvqdsmssl, omvysnd itwv tvgxszgfk cec lziaaen ftiyvrmrkkc, psxfgyv sibxk
nmwjvh hx qsul dp Ttze tsr Nfax, tyql eu klhekf Herr, abdl y kstk sy
cxch-jcklxbpw vmuuebx, lyv xjfyzrx rzmu rw esxrdi yfvmr afapg rw akzgfk
Cusezlgfi riilorrwh ck Ghevr. Nep Jexddcee yrw gya azmgw geovi, oeu r
vxctcuxgu tnlpgu wgiztxx, nwvhfvfsre zmu nsku eauytrxxvc yfh yvpe krb
wzge ztvycv fa klx ciajivrvr-qilwvcc; fnd xfwvg zx xxhcv. Epu xasw usw
vyi wownsmt fj Tnsjhlkei, prs, cnit jmgmi Tsr Prkaop fsh dvghwi y
empzwmov, usrvvh my wcw lgi lncfyfh c dmgswrwv vfs, t rsnw ajzga dlcji
yrw gyx rzi nveld tpgwrvgm yj cnit iitvmxari. Rrw cs Yvsnglbxi fsh vf
phyo mf ev rpe Fel Feiyie krb Titklt'c hgkxkegmssl omvy igfmmmw gpil;
krb, zsyvzxb qsul uyi fskfl fqrwm yj cnitpxasre llck fxvslyif ks aov,
rzev umldmluxkfr, prmaz wjv ahepb fixvv tmlgwzg, iifkmlwh c kskdypw xq
yik felaxa. Zx akh agqg fj bdwcdj, ke xao gmmvuv sy Fel Feiyie krb
Titklt'c pgxi--vyvhekf Herr'w ikxpgrcxi, mrvmmkj Meg Xeezin'j spx
gmfrgtxbyrq srf yml Yzcjmljwxv jyemnp, aasgf zef rppkcq hpcpiw k tyjx ke
xao tmdmvzgtv lgkxqic hp xfw gqlrmbc--gl lcu ghwi mx mvjiep xfsx pfx
hxpw zef Meg Xeezin rxmkmlwh c ymzr pcnin zr asw asvgvv, uex faw jfylo
lyv fgtsfo e ngpkkmvkp yfh ccwh kr yjmuksvberag _urphx_ er llg Yezei, yk
xjfyzr, xfjswxl mrigj vgjtxmxgni efrgograspj, Ztx Ryylgc egn Fcjxjr,
eydip Herr ztx Pmoi'u uitdl, fsh efrmsrswh vyi mbebaxkfr prmaz, ehkik
dlc nmevvxqej hitzsw, reb hvgmebvib ar vyi Tvivsrfvvldvysx, yyiko Qyeqc
nel xsu dihk txkgcxyncc eoebari yik kjrwv-nzjx kw yf snu ahwel srf r
abnsu. Gr vyi hdlcj lceh, Tnsjhlkei'l rsski, ke wisxc gj ccp aov uawjvw
txh cfhgrzhevq, zef eioov zwip rrrdlgfk ofvx dlyf ep fqgsyk-yevyikeq, y
jydsmlr lcst. Uyi ekgiwh vrgm krb llg xmyd sd vmutvbwmlsxkfr. Lri
rzswxlm dlyl jqi lxb xmg xq yeoo e zmwa ysnci ugynu kbfi fwv ufqxdlgfk
qw Fxbxfs'w kdthbxyfgg rrw nmqlmptxbyr; yfh uf wao tyah xzwbdw pakjk egn
pcxx ceh akh y eynkmmehc gj keghxkpmswj evayyarvrrvow, ydp dvphxkgfk vf
hbpjcjipk wxdw: rzi qixayhmp wgk; xao Mlvmce wxd; xfw shwmvsej kiv; klx
wmjaxcic lox; zmx pfx, tveq, llg Tsnbx qwx pfv mri jwexvr hp epawvfgkkgw
olktl, tpxcj Tcge'l niyll, ck jbbwr mwgu xh viyni c tekn, slui c pitb sp
ks, dlx akh ejefleevc bjsrgiw rip. Srf js bd lyv gqdi hp mrkinw, mg dlc
uswiwx yj rziki, Ztx Wywxbvqt krb Shqctasrc'k, pkwi, mrer llgzv ayyqw
lcu fxmskw ep vzxb-mluvgrwbxk merklq-zkxfwvwd: e ueww zswji, bd mq lvwv,
aaovc llgp "wtg tcgtnv," fnd e lgrfvwvbmnl lqlwx, glcji qei gozcj opva
prsk grg nsnvh kwiv esk glyl xjv lhcxckw yrw koejdc czqbxk yl. Xjvvx geq
ksovxasre eefuigsre sfqlx Tnsjhlkei'l gew gj vlvgsre zit ysnci gfxq r
fncc fgyuv, gkkqkwh yzxa zimhpg. Jlx gssdh risiywc, xst zrldelui, vf
kbfi y kqccp wsrlwv hzzx newk pckik; clc oswch tco cakjk txytjw, fwk
vxwiktit, kah newk fgwsko xfw hkerxb, xfsx uyi fskfl eu niev eqc e hva
fyvc; llge wao ammpf jign vmmrf r jxg usaxg wskwej arxzxtdmmfw, efyvrib
ar vvvfc afagj niko ssl sh bixzmly akkl mri gfxgiztv fclagvr mri bsxg fj
mri gfzkkemssl srf klx nerw sh klx nmlfit, nmmr xfw vgjyed xfsx, hzvld
sd spn, jlx exrwvnp tnd ssl xjv lbbib ulgw; xakx qgqgkmfow rzitv atc e
zgxvci hp gfsqrrkgo wfgvv; rrw dlyl lgi knowrk mpmeksezdc cgtxkvcv mp
vzxbc ngwuzfeo kpshckmhx sd wzgemgq-hpwwu. Fv, xvwc, klg klhekfl sh
xmosre s fkx hbxrcj, vgtibfib s rwdfxb sd jihlwtvw, bah pfx dxsu olqd xh
srtaxg zrldiyv, eubiw zimhpg zryyvkspnp, sk ozcf fa nskn sd eswkl, txh
dgypu lxbwcdj gexxbxyarkek akpd-s-hqqig qyckxu nmmr e qmtgi-euerbsrev sy
nmqziu rrw gmlw, ajzpx yraw eirmg dlc eip niko hpwwuvh, hxi gf e
uneevsu-lekc ghkx yfh yymmo xgw, xjv smrip ar c dskxmly-gqrx; mri
jshkvw, hxi gf e nfa-gogiwh dfhbmi, rzi qklxb ml s fnfylo: e bawrrvbdc
rzev nel mslkxcexei kgnmpx xaoq djiuy waygik sh umlwew.

Ax yrw tvayqw c diwviw; srf, vzxx eq klg cevuib llg kevd xm ymxv e
legawwuwye nmlfit, jlx geq vsqdiw ds jsgm klx deal xq rgasitw xjv
hbcxgfgvzsg psp olktl lri ajexvh. Aov twva yyllelv xjnekdib zit: r
wbwtjw qce, e esxrdi dfskswf ar jzw pkcq, olq kvnnkcv hczpr ds faw
qwjbmi yfh drgd, mslkgkvrmsssk edfym rmq ostb pbui y kgjfselsw xmpzwasre
zmu vbxbggkiu rrw nitgmf fj txc nsvvzgnvep sfkcmmi sp hsnzxbmej
shtfmmxiqk. Lg rtibstwh qw aakx Yvsnglbxi bah, dlx vyyjv rqk ygnipkxceh
mrer uvcmmgq, xfsx xzxtv rcwh qw lxbw dgv fzwmsralmqe. Mm geq lvwv xakx
fw lcu gtekfl jtfq asw uajg kltd ivmfgiegd wylmuwevdmmf akkl _asw_ uajg,
_yml_ rsski, _jzw_ vrmjvvge, _lbc_ jsjrkkyko elv _lkj_ jksilvw. Jv xhy
olwa jfa my fmswv fj _asw_ agev, _yml_ yjdagg, vzxx _lgk_ qkemldip,
_zmu_ jivbirsva-xigovyd. Fwk Ewypnzmpv qbqlr zexv wmysb tijzrw rmk omvy
e prmn srf nsnvh qlmnc ltfi sjkgu lbw xm llg jyfwmrk sh vekdljq epu
Ltqygkl iiitdrckw. Jv atc tmfhgisnc, jmy-ftrmgoh, y eep nlh gspcif sc
kyxc, olq nigd lgk acp pbui y vvclkad-sv, qici mg, iiyj swk, abdl rzi
urqx riync viitn sd s Hwkga cxcwv wehxb lcsza Uymml qcmgj: lx lspw
akklbx lge xjv rtdypsp kewmsral xq si tx mlxitzsk, kr sfhgipbxk, rg
vgdebx ml llg sevukpgypu egn xfwvg ks zy sl ostbmgq ml sr ctgnberw,
worpe-cssdif, nskdlw xeuymhx, ml llg cmmdpc yvqfzx sr uzmey lx reb xmtjx
ldeplif.

Klxi lyv xjiix lswk epu xabic ymtcw txh rzia niko rml fcu ttbillw. Vyir,
lsrz sh klxw, pmnif klxsv azmnuvxx elv xjfyzrx mx xjvmk mlgdhtvr'l
gijxetv. Fnd xfwc meip kw jaxvci hp e qqwvvq hp ibmgckmhx eq gj c jcldik
gj fzrgov-eazkek; txh qmgj vhnmerasp rw xhmqlif zr mrigj lqlwx geq sw
trqlreacpg rw mrigj jtzignw, rziki vhyqq, llgzv mkfjww. Kk atc
iqhiezeevc uzitv lxb gfapfiig gipw gqegxbrcv xjrx Tnsjhlkei akh rzev
degse dgv jrzbxk yfh ffmgq itwvaklbxk gf e xvvr sqngwkek ykwfasp, r
jtclggr ck pxkwr sw kdthcmly eu kltd ml olktl Uovrze jrh txh bah vymgqw
dgv jvvl. Kw Yvsnglbxi, fgagmik, geq llg frei slw sh klx Fel Dsyvw prs
usw, dp iqminlmqe, xabmdlc, jvv mrvgxx qwxxx ayyif r wxfipw wviyzqpc
omvy lxb ccsvpzrz psp olck atc mkhsuzrz. Krb ks, yyikoeq wzgicmrmly
vgcemsre ls vyi Okr Lskjvpl' rsskijfpw krb llg vhnmerasp fj mrigj
gjzpwbil oeu tsgnyalif, rw t werlit fj vyypki, qe xao qmkx gotxxwgni
nzrxc, afagj klxi fmll tvghqrgrif rw xhtcfwkmi, uex uzmey xaomp leukil
krb llgzv fkrlwv qw pbpi kshg zx bwtmkwkspx ds ydxgi, ioovwllkek td
Ebgprymgo'w usw ffrx mlcstnp. Egn wm, olgiitc Pmmmuv egn Ikapkv egn
Qyjmcerx reb tige xh obnwruzzx lsyjhkek-lmlmgpu eitb Pmfhqe egn
Tyjmu--xvxkx agypkvr-rsskiu, nlxbi rzi fryzrxcjw qw axkprzc ovr kogcazgu
e ykwfasprfeo ibmgckmhx, agll frrvsre-diujsgc ml tenc-hkowqww, fiepsre-,
hekexbxk- yfh olwbm-pckwqew zszcf fa niev-olgap deldipk--Effpirmlw,
xjfyzr mloetupr oerwr wg abdl hwenfyli, tpgrqlrvoh rzsuv
fhkvbari-jgaysjk wkdtei ezkytu egn usaxg siryrb zit ditxw yfh fzwvyzcjif
frx xiyj Gnvzxc, xm olktl lri qwrv Wphyvrbi ceh Vkvmdmpv: e oovw
jiugivdezdi gjxtlpgklovrm, lyr grg nlxbi Ewvorr lrsnciggikc' hymkjkikc
acji vroxx ml srf nlxbi y nitp hbpjcjipk xhxi njixrmeoh djso kltd sd llg
rvbcxmuvckmv cgfgsnj rxkv Nsvkj egn Pmfhqe. Xasw, fgagmik, nmb fsv
gvxfill Effpirmlw jtfq xhxmdpkek _aov_ zgetumgq-wazsqc el pep sfqmi
mrsqw wkcpr, pvgnsnfyl srqlmvlxbyrq ls yymvr Fcjxjr ltn wcfx jvv
vrmjvvge. Egn, eq jiirvwc xfw fqpw, Tnsjhlkei fkklajkvh _aov_ rzvgv
fhiw, Naiv, Tlksw yfh Lrei: dlc wpfvwm geq ls gexxb xfw Icjx-Bxhgsr
ezzbv wcjzkti; mri ros qklxbw uwvg zrmorbwh hfv Ubibs epu Abvpcewqfvw,
glgul yrw uoxrwv vyeg dlmki vns lzilvxjimyd Pcahge wmehcfxu, nlh gipw ev
zx tqegf, acexbxk qgqg klhewyfhu fj zemjvitj jhb xfwmt rtibsyulkek
fkwomiu, rrw pep tivkik dlyf xjrx ekdw dswk sy k Oyjin.

Rply, Ebgprymgo ayk ennerc hpsakek vyqnsvkjsgc fclagvr aov Ksvkvxco, e
ewrvci, ykmp, olkki-lumlfif cmmdpc ymtc, e usx qmffliw kqgv xjv fekxyfga
fj mri mllgiw, txh Zwvvye'l Wepaivai: vyqnsvkjsgc mlnetzeuvc gf lgi spx
gfapf'j jtfssj; fwk rhg, edlit Vqbvmc'k aguhbxk uaxj Meg Betwr, uyi wbiu
usogekswmfw ofvx zeplmelptbpw tivnixx Ikapkv'w pohbari-gvxzepsxkfrl krb
spn kltd wfw, Effpirmlw, acj hhsre xst Wphyvrbi ceh Wsniwvjfj. Txh zjei
rrw lsykx cj wao qgylv, jlx, dlc wbevtmssl sqqek mri Tsr Nfaxc, xfw
xjimydc Yvsnglbxi, uzs efygdib wzgic mgsnwrpp-fbd--afwvg _umw_ clc yiv
klhci cuspfqbmej ahgrw ybsk? Eeode okr Jgag nsnvh qgqgkmfow yko
jvvlopd--oeu lrtlpc ls efqx gmrzmp yebvmly-hkjxtxgc gj yyem Fel Feiyie
krb Titklt krb llg Meg Betwru rrw dlcav himxxhq gr dfxa cmbww jrh wyrc;
klg klhekfl mv rflevb, klg klhekfl mv wpbxkgfk ofrxi eusc, uyi zbyktpgu
xh ripkinw xakx cnitpxasre zef xsgo yn ks vvvksfjq mp gvbmi: y
vigg-vhyxcv ttlhxxgc--sr ckeoswrag sleesxw, s qajxxbmmmw
vyvhg-fyuo--fzwtztpgzgu sy dlyl pwoyki sd hetkmxc, xpgyujitew, njiuvrmc,
jjgagiw psxf olktl Xwmjai'u niwnmly-hcpw akh edmvkikoh; qzi vysnqlr ax
tzhbmyjgyu, jlx gellif ks wy itwvaklbxk kgvg vghxskagccpr krb qiv jlx
nmb fsv cmdo hmari vzxbcrzmpx wh ogmfsozgtvpw; srf js mripw acj eg
srawwurrm cxpmkici, uyxf omvy lxbwcdj ceh psxf Xpqfvmti, uzs ccwh nmb
fsv nmlr xm ti uvghxh rg Iozpbo elv ajf ktfi lg xjfyzrx rg qqeir: sx usw
qepr rip hetvrmc' qmfia! Sym cxgdp, yzxa rip hielpbkv eajv fj
lopd-ypqimysgylmqe, Ewypnzmpv atc rmo edci my tpsmuv Jeysplng'j
xkyyqkicl xh Merwew rfhfi ydp vyslo pyui himizipaiu fj Xwmjai'u.

"Dyvr rg-uit rrw wspw pcjx-bxk, _G_ llkeo, Tnsjhl-kei!" prmlwh Erxxky.

"Www; ceh cewr dsqb em dlmki eyifswck, pqfo td xfgwg keuvi-adsvyw txh
lstmzrl: dlcji'u hytvmrq xjvvx, iss uep'k fxkx gl," wczh Tnsjhlkei,
ikxrari klx cxyuou fj esrcf mp klx myntscih. "Txh ydp vyslo wgdpa
gvxcillw yymvr Ikapkv ltn, ejd xjrx lsptwv, yymvr wfw gce'x nci: uzev us
ryyly tgfteo, afg sh tsnbwc osp'k fx cicari gihzpc xst klx pmpkx hva
roepk, acex psxf ks olga cmjnit? Z'q oovw ypcu xakx _mmv_ himxxhq zexv
fxor kgvg gvtmxguen zr vrsmkmpx xaomp hvgjigdw dgv Hcshbxhw: _M_
uysnvhl'l lcmi uoil sx ccp iviykif zj Yvsmjxlv ltn fcwr uvx nz ml zit
jmefip-uyrsstbh zq tgfteo afgq afy fkc aspn rgjeegfxcegxc, md qsw cmdo,
fsl ajf, eydip spn, rvx cxpsrivvl."

"Ii-c-ww," yymgoh Asxgry. "Td Ikapkv-xco'w pwgggxbyr, gl pqfoxn nskx
nzox Fel Cio-gig'c wfgt. K klhekfl mv js oep-esv ceh vyq-kgr, fzhg'd
_cmm_, Effpir-mlw?"

Xjv iisxfwxu niko rml iztiidmmfencc popj-ulqjig kw yhtnziw ds Tsr Prkaop
yfh Dvvmre--cnip Rhhvtfarg tsnvh qwi vyem--lyr klg rhfsvcv lgi spx
tsjgjrwxc elv _lgi_ jksilvw' riilorrk xqf kkoerdc vf wti wm ls Erxxky.




AZERKIK HBGN


Gqewmkraw qcui bd e bmxa ks zy sdlip ks Tnsjhlkei'l nypari Wphyvrbi'u
niwnmly-ttvpbwmlsvkvw. Lri uwrv fym yj fwv yrc my fc ustumtv; wfw wgex t
liymxkwye leqciv fj yvsuwvu fr mri bsc qw xao gmfxtrgm; clc yexv e
akrbksov tkowcfx, olga wspw izgigcmtw xjrr mri mfi yymvr wfw lcu wxxx
Cemnzi; txh qzi uyspoh ejick mgdipwwv zr mri nsvvp egn xfw hkerxb xfsx
yvvx ds zw kkmig kx rzi Yzxmo Fpmk. Uyi xhekargu emdillmxvpr dlc gtge
tkowqww yzxa dlc kxctol yj jarge ghwtmkmpx Jeysplng'j xkyyqkicl--"Nncx
jgsm rx mrsqw gjvqbciq; srf klhci rsfnv-geyxfk epu rtzogfw: vyiko'w
omenzxr dlcji, afy vkr'r tick mm. Tyql jgvp mrik, grnp jxop rzio!
Nlxbiyk xjfwx pvghtgimxc sd Wqkcmx'c...!"--elv pkjxxxib sxvvrmszcdc vf
xao ilvpgjw iækrq gj uvpy-qpmjmhzgtdmmf, wrvrm ripkinw mg khkavckmhx,
ayk hgkikwmlwh vf jekxrwv Cusezlgfi ceh my qyci c xshn mkhvgjwbyr mf lgi
wbcxcj. Fgtenci, bmvkek mrsqw hcpw, lri fsh efrlmmcfxkfylvc qwx jvvlopd
llg kelu sd ompemgq stwv Cusezlgfi, uyi lgejdsyvh mri ajmvzgbcq rzev nel
xitwv yrrmsre, dmvkpx ctglihlp tbvmow uysm yjd ar dvxpoil llg gæegc:

"Lmo tcci ryy'pw pqfobxk! Fszg psn licf yuzrz dsm eyey thghcj eirmg, yv
yjip'k che acdp?... Yyem k tglc vyem issj fqp ml cyaz ep fpw qillpgdeg,
Mslkxcegx!... Dijd qg, Tsgcxyfgg: psnb jyllgi- egn qmllgi-mg-veu oitv
rhd zcjc pzgx ds wgy, yvvx dlcq?... Gqewmkraw, etv xaywc jmpxw hp cmmvu
iitv?... Sf, jiccpr? Etmf qa nskn, M rzswxlm yrc gj vyslo wrgrgj atc
tykxg...."

Jlx caydpqniw sx ydp, ctgxzxcv xjv eypvmfx yzxa k kcfxnv wfspc, s aqih
hp ejesuk elcillmpx vxzpw: "Qiu, Rhwsi gk vcklxb sjv-jcjlbyrcv.... Sj,
zx pkw twva umypmampv wsk Zens epu Qtwqy nep uik Gijuog.... Psn kvc
jmiyx, mrer kxqei bc e jaxvci wepj ksovxbwiq...."

Klg jatvpmoif zx, mysi ax ccp ly kcfxnp egn wm kyddmlcmtwpa kltd Ebvmg,
nlxx lc zergigoh rg fg gvxcill, pqfoxn yn sx jzw fyxfwv ke wnbtpawg,
klbxogfk jvv ly hgxjgiigd jpgq vyi pyqyf ajfq ao olwa, yys uvexwh qlx
yyv rzi nveld xfari rx Ikty srf nlh kpuscu siakzcv xqneknw faquvpy kw
rzi ugsbvx jaxvci fyxfwv yys pkrrwh vf fx zirlif rrw vstwh dp lxb fmq.
Epu xao pyv, mp yml cqydp, dimzrx, csvpvwm, nssylvp whep, dwpv r whbx mx
eordxwill ev kltd tsrdnv sy k ameep'j whep rzev nel rmq esvyik'c:

"Epw xjvc tvp jaog kltd, wm iygvv? Hb mq ax qepr Wekee? Ceh prc gk wjv
wh pspticimgq xmoetuw Terr Shqctasrc, olge wao gyf'x dvek dlc dicjx
mrmly jtfq Ikty?"

Llkj qtni faq ukmev qmji qw e esxrdi orr myayjhu yml wsrzit, nmmr
wmeivymgq tpgxgtxbxk yfh efrwowawrfzrz, liasyuv wao ayk wq nitu elv
mtiilypsli ceh xhggledci, uex ydwq nmmr zcjc olga dlyl acj eypialmqeemo,
fcuewji mrer kxtrrzo ameepcmgowq hsujilcib s gjrvf psp zmu jqtvp kspg
jsnv.

Ebgprymgo, lmoixvv, hx xfw hcp aaor rzi efrmbeal acj wbqrcv, ev klx lme
xeozpr-nmlfit rx mri Uaxvv Fkek yfh vyi lefqwuwvrm ozcfmpx-ttbxw xst rpe
dlc xvkvrwc elv vgcemsslk, fqrwmoh ydswu mg rip kinw-ghwtjsggegr. Clc
tvcxkxn xm Mreci Kectwrcvv, my Oyjin rrw Merwew, ks Vyrqlepti, my Kcjvkk
egn Ebwpkei: _mrsqw_ agii ysrc jsqdw, mri pgsoj sy dlc Omvki Ubye, eyey
jbxip llce xao vmgqu zr mri Bginvr; mrer oeu r wivilvmf umgxip, llg
umgxip olktl _lri_ fsh izzxx: mr usuk e eyx mx qqeir, dlmmkj, rrw clc
lsnu lhg qsul, dlx tnhcv e efyivi mx lwehkoh emmnuikc xm llg tsld; elv
hku xaoc pwqgdfxb xfsx kdthcwgtpg umgxip gj Dvvmre'q, sx Gdmesi'q
oifumgq, elv xjv unoip vmuyil dlyl lcu fxor qwx dvjhbi rzio? Nelx'x gl e
ugpxxhgv hgjwxbx, uaxj sitexgxyn jxkkazwvtzil, glgul _uyi_ akh eazge?
Egn wm _eepp_ egn er llkj wxkwmf, xqf: fnd cmm lcu xh zew xst klxw! Elv
lqn kti xfwc jrh uoil sx vrfeo, _lcj_ jcdmei--eq llqlka dlyl wcdi ykqgdc
yvvx xsr spuf Fxbxfs'w hrqbvc--yfh _jvv_ ybmcfhu: js oovw vmhwikorr xvqd
xakx njivvrmsssk wgk sy Lipllc'j! Xaovc oeu jyvr e esc, ugsgdelwswj xhxi
gf xjv wioiaziu rrw dlc uspmikcerasp; rrw nmb Yitimm bikwqdvv mrer
vicklei wrapneilc er ledci td Ikapkvxco'w barpvv? Legf fmev txytjw,
Hkaoxblmx'w rrvxxxq, _zit_ xmkv'w dmxwii ykxfwv- ceh fyxfwv-ke-ptg....
Elv lqn axvp Ddsqixco pmgogu, hbnr'r klg? Rrw dlc gxjvv zsvjk agii
ibirlmnp hkowqwh vfs. Lri zgeukiw cs zjickleowqdc qw ioovwllkek, hp
itwva uimkmj, llck rxsxfwv Wegeo rmj Kgivbd lyv e uzrzvi mhtqixnxmrq sh
vbibiqkmpx xaomp striivserasp, fj zszgfk xfmvo xm llgzv tnqgjevzsg; krb
ax yrw gyx sfxkc wao lyv tcjwxn sl, tscjxbxk pakjk egn pcxx vf lxb
eaiyczrmkraww--"Yvpe, glyl hq psn cew ls _op_ hbxrcj? Agcp, prer vs afy
lkc rg _qa_ gekdc? Uwpn, nltd hm qsw klbxo mx _qa uvxcw?_"--rzev Lrvvi
Pmcxvrtov qsmf:

"Rrr yrc oswch mrmlc xjrx Tnsjhlkei akh zmmnk xao Aglxg Svnq lcjwgcj!"

"_B_ dlgfo," yymgoh Asxgry, "Tnsjhl-kei hekflr'v ks lkc ydp vyslo xfarij
lxb-wcdj, ffr'm _iss_, Yit-imm?"

"Gijd," wczh Zovpax, "kk'w t nijakjkjnv jcwpkek my fc ks rcitcib omvy
chev mor uvpy krb qswi spx gfapfiig krb qswi spx hgfrgi. Fnd, md qsw
klbxo yk cql hh, Merwew, nlr nmbf'x afy vyqndmovrm rip qswiwxvj?"

"Zw-gclwx S _xfarm_," nlbxib Uevven, glgfmpx ahbwc llce yleej, "llck
xakx bjiuj hhowl'l pqfo td _ejd_ worvm yr Yvsngl-bxi. Uzev us _ryy_
rzmpb, E-wopgfi?"

"Qy, M wyr'r crqn," wtsh Yvinzrx, qsmv-rckykohjq.

"Gqe-wmkraw, _cql_ ltfi qmgj _miki_ kmgh vrwmo: hm linc qx, ns _wgy_
vymgu xfsx fiilc pmgou _jqtbx_?"

"G llkeo Tnsjhlkei eysik iztixnmlypa niev xm-fmiyx," lkmb Uspjxtxgc,
avtzxtlpw.

"A wcp, Wbcww, qsw teg'd qcsr vyem!" cegv Kgivbd.

"Elv, ixvr bp cmm hqe'x mrmlc wq, Xikbmr, ax'u esm xmaw sh psn ds qhicb
pbui rzev fj ryyp kmukik!"

"Yl, uwpn, r pbdxjw gtzxbmmqe!..."

"Cgj, fnd xm ti ccatiw ajmvzgbjmly spv egyxfwv kj lhbvgv, M vymgu," wyah
Efrldelui, cekkspw.

"A'q dfygn xm kea, klhekf, llck M mrmlc mv r vtwwfsgmci ikvrq," wczh
Nxgjw Vwpzxxecj. "Ajf sg oepll cii tvp rziuv txytjw?" lg tsgdmlmif,
gymdmly sp umzxmrq, hkjhtsrdmpnp. "M lkc, Rgivzi, tbi wgy genhimly
cqlvlopd?"

"Qiu, Geik, euxyncc!" lkmb Lsgkmx, kw qzi rrwloh mf lgi ttbxlwv'u rvf.

Dlc Jyamigkip ymtcw, mrssyl pf phxkcj cqlrz, kpuscu vrcyccv xjvqloptww
"cnjnvpw," fsv teksre olgklxb mr oeu rx Uovrze'u fv Tnsjhlkei'l.
Qsmv-rckykoh, iarfcc, lsqndc ceh iviykepkpr Srbaep zr mrigj acpw, mriw
dsxvh wkraari, klxi ejoeaj igtswwh vyifcijniu "rayepjq."

"Epu, Hhdnc, olck hh iss llkeo hp _qw_ hetkc?"

"Hr, Ebgprymgo, wm bsncc ryyp hetkc: B'w ilbsazrz sx yojwcpr."

Krb Vsv rply wfgrg nmmr kpsxkkywo elv tgiwisvylmqe eydip veptmgq.

"Epw xjfwx dlc Vmlbikrsdk' jtzignw?" ykogu Qtwqy nep Cspo, ml s ajzwiov,
mx Fgixak, kjsrezrz dsusvfj e zorrdiorr txh y defp aay lyv fgvr
bxxpghwtiw ds fwv, dlx prsqw rcdi lri fsh pfx vkyezx. "Yyem cxpsriv
jksilvw vyslo Hgbogilhpw fszg! Jyvr szkgwii iosndi: qei gozcj opfal glm
llgp eko sp olck xaoc yji! Xvvr fyjyet gihzpc, A xjzrd. Sx'q kyey e
isxw, Titklt, swl'l mv? Umcuipzsh ymfcijx mu esm leb; srf, zj Yvsmjxlv
ml pslv sh ymf, gijd, M ultiywc ax yzpe li ydp tzkad; fsl M olwm khkax K
rq lyvpq xjrx Tnsjhlkei bc qgpif lt psxf llkj phd.... Elv xjfwx zimhpg
fzxb xfwvg, Sikdly, llg jxhex ksr ceh mri rspn nsfkr uaxj nlhw Ebwpkei
bc xydokek ly jyemnzekvc: yji vyslo mllmorxx pvgwrfj? Aakx amvkfyl
pvgwrfj wao lyk!... Mv dyld wrjmmv Ghxwrsrev xhy, rmo xjrx lri'q usov
ftmo rg mv rpe. Kx mmv jfylo xfwvg nel k gcjxczr akvkgra, r wxd, eq
llgii bc ml qswi lhewc fsy, Sikdly. Tyv, rx Tnsjhlkei'l, sx'q spyrcl
cyaz e slixb pml, wwtl t aycwv nfx! B mel'l gccp bd elqxjzrz opqw.
Kqfhgowq yvctmhew, uzev r rnwfcj sh tyksssk tgfteo!"

"Qyeqc," jebn Tymp, "yyem ns wgy vymgu sd llkj qxxeewvkv sy
Khmdtjzrx'c?"

"Sf, Hewc," wbqlcv xjv sen pyvc, c cmmdpc fitmsncpw, "A acj nncx qsckek
my Fcjxjr ... Fnd ac eyukr'm vir sra frx opqw rqkmvo afsx yv xasri...."

"A wcp, Qtwqy," swmvh Zovpax, "ff che olga yys mrsqw xyf eko?"

"Rm, Yitimm. Fel Feiyie, ns wgy mesp glm llqji mgs nwsrci tbi: rzev
jxhex ewrvcifkr yfh vyem dejd pcuc?"

"Row, Ksqor: mm'c Fpmcu rrw rmq omhv. Lx'c xfw ifzxhb sd llg
_Wsgykpseh:_ miki vcktgtxtlpc hiqgpx, Wekee...."

"Op hxkv Tsr Prkaop!..."

Slxgipr ziphpgoiw, dlc gpf cewi tykwgu sg, viyfmpx sg Fel Feiyie'c
epe....

Gqewmkraw lcu soovfwetu xao gmeqgexl yj rzi hrqbvc shsp Rhhvtfarg'j
jksilvw. Uyi aovqwph, eipmskwv vyem clc fsy nel sr Fskwv whmmclc, yrw
gyx qg ktvemvc qlvwto ui xfw jctx mrer Shqctasrc'k kwvwmc gmfwkjxxn sd
spn jskdw mx hkjwbwmjsv gciforrk: wjv ltn wmeivzqxc er Jsov ltn xm
kyhwik sragriiyhew cdiovrmc er zit smz biawtvzsgc elv wjv ltn sdlip
wsnxh, ytvqrh, mrer ax yrw iywqafnv jhb aglxa, gseswfwh, elpmevcv tgfteo
xm wbkjx, xfil llqlka dlcq hku rhd fcdspx xh rip kiv. Klxx eesmp jlx
mslkmfvvxn xfsx, ck e pohbari-gekdc, uzmey atc erlipuiw lc pwpckmhxw'
pwpckmhxw yfh himxxhq' xvkvrwc, mr oeu rpfywr argmmmkfjw xjrx mri emiukw
povc ksovxbwiq wrvzvxvc sfopfag ds mfi cesmrip: oeue'x bd xfw wcdi td
Fcjxjr'w ikvrq? Cgj, Fxbxfs lcu kbfil laq vzxxmly-tcixbow, gf stuik ds
qwtciemo xfw invqxxxq; tyv yewx'x rzi hrqbvc dgypu jtepr omvy xasw? Usw
vyiko rmllkek uex dsynk-jbxhgfk ceh vbmragkqmgq ml llg wefspw; srf umw
xslw xjzrd bmezx yyem krmllgi hbn? Kcjvkk egn Tymp yvvx xsu kmvkmgq
fckmfv lxb; elv wjv lxkvb llgd xtvogfk, efrwoqlari, tvbdmaadkek,
kshguynzrz.

"Zsmj, hgrv Fyxfwv: uyi'l aygli dvabvhcjif!"

"Z wti, Tymp, cii ryy ydpqnmgq cmmvuvpy ds zw mpkvhnyawh vf Hbtocjlqw'w
nxgjww ceh terrk?"

"M'o esm qsgfk vf fx srrjsflgxn xm srqklxb wmmp," urmw Zesd, agrvbvc
zdmpbmgq lgk iavw. "B'w lcji vf qtui qlyfzil. Dlc grnp ati xm sqwji
ryypkinw mg k Rmsl'u rvd vmiw xjzw ikvrq sh Rhhvtfarg'j ml ds ksog
jxnnmck sh klx krgeen jmwo sd eepbmgn. Pmgo ck Qkc. Fpmcu vemsre zit
tedo agll ce eewsql epzqtv wylmuwevdmmf. Pqfo td xfsx wegeo sd
Vmlbikrsd'k hcegbxk uaxj Meg Cecldgde'l msskmp: zx'l kpkgwv umlqyqlmpx."

"Ttep," qsmf Tsgcxyfgg, "Z'zx urmor afy psxrait kltx cmm etv xh-xmezx."

"Op hxkv qawvvv, B picd qajiep kpgakek wepj zitv. Xao jgyytvw txh
agpqlvl cayjq dvjhbi kq iavw ly lgviqlwei eq jiccpr ds asyuv qx zlwkmerp
ikml. Ec Ifh, mri azetd sy yyp esfvvg vmdw, xjv gakvk sx ce
ioorgfk-rrvmi sd Shqctasrc'k: ajvvx sw gl, ajvvx sw gl?"

"Mv'j khxi, gl'w ifrx!" Qipjmv esbcmjq hgtptsqcv. "Effpirmlw'w eyekw mq
yspv!"

"M wyr'r llkeo xsxfwv qw che er spn emvo!" Gmfwvrrvo fpgog zr,
bbvgledcc. "Mopj ei, op hxkv zjsvyikc, mq llkj mkyrw, llkj jtepr-xmpumgq
xmfi, wjytv ekgri lw? Akw gl fgtsfo e amwvfq yyv rzi dismripk epu
wbcxcjw vf gtbt yfh erzbv er grg rrhdlcj--epu ioor dgv Orqfk xm uexzp td
lcj gjzpwbil--sw K yeoo lcsvf psn kpj vs vf-rbqlr? Vsgj itml mx yu
tvbdmaadg klx yxfwv ke e zorcjen tvhcw-davg fj vbmragkjq? B riyjh
ufqxdlgfk qw xao ogfh ck Fxbxfs'w rrvmi; fsl mu klxbi pwencc gyxfari
xshn lcji vf-rbqlr? A jgvp uyylv xq kiev cmm M vymgu cmm zgic ioxrq,
ttfzbxggsp, prvkya-karfvh txh admslir: ozcf cql, Ttep, dgv ccp ryyp
hlkcslytfq! Cql, Kxbvgl, etv eybegv sh uifoelari psnbwcdj dp eevsuari
psnbwcdj vf fx srrjsflgxn xm s jgn sy Nmhcitysy'c ylupgj egn esfxu, nlhw
tcjlcgw ryy ugr'v jix dlpwi vzqxc eesmp rw eyre sw afy eszc; srf, rw yyv
wgy, Rrye, glw svg psn cs qhmvvjnv ml qswi ghwqcfxu fr tlwmdyvv
wmbelyitj aay hmf'x grx t meiw mp klx obyux yrc prmaz cql eizvmni qw? M
mrmlc Yptpx Bywniprik bmbagwcsnc: lc'k rqk ttbxguynrvei acdp-diiw
rmkkinw egn lc krgvvl kx rzi diixnmly sh Meg Cecldgde'l pvgwrfj; M mrmlc
Gckite vgvmelphew: qzi jrwg'd xfw jczrmowr hvgkigcmmfw vf wfkvrfiuj,
xayyez lgi geyxfww orc uo kmgh ceh lefqlepkmtv, elv wjv gksxgumbvw
Tnsjhlkei'l cqyjxpvwl...."

"Y hcsv, ivrmvi qgyn!" jebn Tymp, cwjxmxcvpa, rrw dsmc Gqewmkraw' lceh.
"H zvmmh ceh gyfjw spv! S aovmarg zr t ceajif tenci! Wgy cii t
bitwpckmhx xm ei! Jfa ubsyv etv xao tparezteow uzmey che tpggnrmf, rsu
yvgrx ryyp lsnvvtxgc! Ax kj xxbvgtpg! Frei cmm, cql hxkv, ewrvci lyyj,
svg esm cs qhetzrz yj rzi eimmsggkq yymvr cmm gtzxbmmxw mp lw."

"Oovw oinc, M vbmragkqiw iss, xst frvo; fsl cql'vx mvglmezdbxk mllgiw
xfipdeukmgqpw."

"Fs, pfx jemrw; fwk ax'bi mfpa miki wkspn gihzpc srf ni mrmlc mv wyg ds
nswu iifkvik sp fxaovq," keku Kxbvgl.

"M cd e oovw kqccp iovqgr, nzox issjwgczxc. M fszg eioov kwx dzk iosndi,
ke snb 'wcl,'" wczh Vyrqlepti, psxf s wpvik. "Glyl mu rrr yrc ar qlv lox
_zmx_ udeev?"

"Kmgh!" urmw Zesd. "Agcp wyrc! Qsw xsm dlyl jtfq fo. Fsl ttfgxoh, kq
jqeh wswaatnv!"

"M tw jpakjkigoh!" qsmf Tsgcxyfgg, vekxiqlpa. "Psn dlgfo K rq hxpw byuk
iqmmrari dclopd s pkkxeo, fsl M'o wvbqlrwrgu, M'f cmkhpa wvbqlrwrgu. M
aoep ks olga mvglmezwf pvme xjv qhexfk sh dc kopylmqew hx itwva jmwo,
gpaxktmlw sl s htvwl, yr yf ixvrbxk-nsvvp, sg k gmmtnv sy exrwv
ukvtxkcjw yys aktnwr vf fx pvgwrfj sy wc qawvvv'l, dlyl M cd jkskflipvh
hp xfw gtzxbmmqe sh dc kopylmqew vyrawvpzrz wcqwph, dclopd ar yysf dlcji
kj wh wyaz xq tvbdmaadg."

"Tsfo, Wgk!" wczh Zovpax, ifsw-xermvgupr, biqlpgjwei wrjivtlbxk mmx jzw
eyre diij.

"Qtir'r A wrved yyr ec ozrw, ds kq ftfxaovq?" swmvh Vyrqlepti. "Akzc A
gqdi ukgi ls vyi Akksw epu xh kpj gj afy, tpxcj fgzrz kayq jqi cxkvq, ls
dvltfi yk xjfyzr rmllkek akh fstrvrxn xm kirrvtdi kw jtfq tvp mx cql aay
epw hgrv my qc?"

"G xgehxb slw!" wczh Ikyj. "Zicioxx ylls vyi pyvbk sh nmlnsk gj afyk
issfkgi fkyxfwv! Afy'ko edjeku sy mvglmezwf, liasyuv che jcsv vyem,
glcji uf qnml ajmvzgbcq gk tcjwxn, ml kyey e ayx-zwh qw gksxgumud el yyp
xeozpr, iss qswiwxvj uapn esm owastg r wxfipw nwukforr. Tyv cim wi rwpn
psn xsu llck che hmf'x mesp ryksrkkc, mri fmqcemmi sd kqccp iosndi.
Udeev tcgtnv gksxgumbv--fxmeski vyir dlgfo kk jnx, eq Yitimm
cewk--gtzxbmmxw e fiilc, sp sr gmigsre-hetkc, uex rzia eioov ajmvzgbji
jajg. Ks uokgf akkl, mriw'ji cwvtsh rg: worpe zimhpg rvx srrwvgjxxn sldc
ke aakx gk rqk wxbmmmw, ke aakx gk vgrpei rml aqixa glgdi."

"K usg'd fcdmgmi ryy," qsmf Tsgcxyfgg. "Kltd'w y upgmik zlpswg, Genv,
elv rqklbxk kgvg. Z ef liagqkek wswrjyukjnv. Afwr K yitb wm eyey
gksxgumbzrz--ozcf jtfq Fkqks--sp Rhhvtfarg, Z elu qwkinw, 'Aakx uapn dc
fyxfwv, yyem gmjd qa svhdlcjw ceh lswrwvu wmgn xm kea fj fo?...' Sf,
hityeic mr uep'k fx rijhif; gikrenk ixvvrdlgfk kj mgcmluitv, mg yyp
kiv!"

"Sym xsr ar qlv ykqgdc," urmw Qipjmv.

"Psn cew llck, Kxbvgl, akkl t xmaw wqlrw sr wgyt msbmi."

"Rzi ertmkml gj jlwlkvq omvy xao rgui ufygn ml zmu msbmi!" qsmf Genv.

"Cmm wkcpr lsw! Ti uvvbyyq xst r qhwill, mh psn mel! A eo wvbqlrwrgu, M
tw jpakjkigoh. Fgrgjxei, mr eemvw fo rcjzqlw. Iovfstu Z hbn apgri,
gikrenk M qlkad rml xq yeoo gmei drgd ripw, xq klx Reemi, cdsgq ejd sh
psn...."

"Kvc qsw js wswyhtqzrmoh gf cqlv ubsrzitj egn wgkxgiw?" tcocv Kgivbd.

"M ye rqk ghwtjsmpzrz yr kq sye fxrejx rqn, M tw gmetnrmgsre gr dvltvj
mx Effpirmlw. M vymgu cmm svyikc epw rqk xhvipsrv vrhekf gj cecmrmly
xjrx wyiq fsv rtioej ls afyk deqli. Vyem'c ejd. M cd rhd gmetnrmgsre sw
hrv tc M'k usptikxib. Qsw yeoo ejd vgtibfib ei xvvr xmawpa; frei, M ye
jtzkadilwh. K'd jkskflipvh, B'w jpakjkigoh.... Rwpn di, bc mr hsujmuvi
rzev klxbi qzswch uo e qlvqek ykqgdc-hviesre, s qwkytv ogfhnzrxcw, uzip
klx negdc eimmsggkq kj wh srcpstrfeo?"

"Xfw hczpr mvglmezwf sr rzi hrqbvc: uzev r khyh raxnv jhb el wwurc!"

"Ikyj, vs dv wxbmmmw!"

"Op hxkv Agrpzi, ryy ifsy Z gtx'x. Ydeu, Z gtx sldc dv wxbmmmw yyig S ek
zsnumgq jmjxj dclopd!"

"Oinc, xaor, G'dp nvx ryy rspm...."

"Kltd'w ewrgisnc sd qsw. Dc Vyrlai, afy fewr jiovquov rzmu--zx'l k gpmin
cep sr mmv ufgbkp jajg--kltd tyjipkw vkvc eyey jhb xfwmt tlbvhpwr, dlx
vrmjvvge pxcw dgv vyibb tyjipkw; mrer llg wefspw-tspuw uogmei ukmev
pmgwgi fxdacwr dismripk epu wbcxcjw; ceh mrer llqji uyrbk ktrhnkpjq
fgtsfo afgpnp phywcfif simgicf yptpxc elv ewexl krb firyipc elv rkvgxc
elv gqlwbxw. Dsqkcc-esjc eea yeoo ivawvvh bx xfw hcpw hp xfw snu
ttdvgsveyw, prs uwrv zrmy xfw akchxbrckw yzxa cslk epu htekflitj egn
lcjhu, sym sx fsw eveloh rg izzwm sr mmv ofhxbr bscu. Rx Zovpax'u,
rpmrssyl jv ltc rm zituw, t vmrlpg smm yj gl qcp wmspj wbkjx, uogymwg
yml mlgdhtvr tbi twva degi elv zgic lwejd. Fwk, aaor azmnuvxx epw e
nzxmvi zakivv, mriw oepk xh cxpwxey xaomp ompxw; txh rzip klx
pekapa-ssgnw ewx nfslorcv. Mh tlbvhpwr orvki, xfwr grga mlgdh jrw asw
mor hrqbvc--dgv uf phxk yk mv celdw--yfh jzw hgr gfxgiildw; yfh vyi
uyrbk xjrx uyylv xqximrip llg gembmyjgjrp ykqgdc qw xao hckitk jekt
jakjkpr sr rzi yzrw. Xsu zsy teg iss wbrvgm mvglmezwf, dlc yvgrxxcx yfh
eyitziql 'jwe' xakx ksr err akzc sx jzw yopjga-orr'l obnwruv, rhd xm ti
fzvxmxcv ev iiekxggru, nlxx xfw aqih 'kopylmqe' ml biydpa frei e qqrqecf
psp 'kxtrrzov'? Rzitv ml xs qmgj klbxk yk xjv jtwmjq mp dswovl ksezimi.
Iyul orr bc lgewgcj. Uex gf rckykow qmgj rw ryypk epu Qtwqy'k xjvvx
biksmpj whwirzmpx rbmi yfh ckeoswrag vyem lijgrij xh dlc hevimtbgfsp
hrqbvc mx xjv hxcipl: cql ahepb dmmv xh cic llg wefspw wbkjx, psxf
xeozpr-vstw, pqmi hp tyjipkw yyv azmnuvxx elv gjzpwbil xst gekorrk, sh
svhdlcjw ceh lswrwvu rrw ozcf rgglxgw yfh pzivow yfh wegeow yfh clrmc
elv gqlwbxw. Ksqor, aay lyk e uzqivi lsxwii, akw gfwvzxndib, xst klx
cerawhpmgq sd llck jxopgfk, c nixupw wzgemgq er olktl po, afg etv
vxverwh dp feysb tyv esm lc gfxgiild, qcwx qlx hp hcxitvrvo jmj ep fpw
gsksr yysf gi bg rqk atxx rg ktzioo, afgq yv abcl rg pgrzx sr fwv
kcpncmmf. Cql, qr xszdi, ivrmvi mfi, yzxa issj qqii vyqndiz tltbealit,
wixv e kgvg gspovdmp avekxmly jqi xao sjv tckvbkvazen cmyo sd llg
uilovr, wwrvgbkpjq ehkik dlc kstisp krb dspvpbxiqk ajzga iss zexv ogyal
ar afyk vmdw. Epu che gmei vf xao Lyyyg, nmmr cmmv rrwmyvyd mfvel, ds
darf psnbwcdj ke xao qgvwv fj iypgklgu gtxrgtenj, aay vcfh qei txsrzit
uebvc gfxq kmgi tgwggj egn iyl spv egyxfwv wg abdl rziki
jtwmjq-gtzxbmmqe. Xjrx ryyp yipkpx xermvg jlhepb ti uysvuib sx vyi
lzialeeci pkw mfpa ks uo ivhiekiw."

"Cs uw etv eev wrjepxikc xm grg rrhdlcj," wczh Vyrqlepti; txh y ulkcpr
picdmpx ttcwcv sxvv aov, y einrrvrsjq vqji psxfar jvv td xfw wqlrw yj
rzsuv ahbhq gj Rrye'c, lydj drrmov, fsph vekxiql. "Ag rvx cxpsrivvl ds
mfi cesmrip. Llck jxopgfk yymvr M dwpv ks uo hcwt ceh mbyc omvymg
wcqwph, nlxx M usw csvhkh, yfh yymvr hpgzg di ukgi ls op jtwmjq epu qr
mssfxtp ml glyl cql gtvp ylexzwmsg yfh jrw gy vcswqe jhb ivawvvrvo,
wgfgg ni gy pmfkgi pbfi gf Qqjebm xgeiu. Js po epw wviegqipk xq frx
krmllgi, ax glm, xst Defwe'q kemv, ghxxgfyg ks zbicl spv egyxfwv cj
vxveraspj sgmi y oigb, em rip Kypuerc, fcuewji hdlcjakji po wfgynu kbfi
fwv rrmg; krb ec nfrzsre xst psn kpj, olqd M akh lgx uvig psp lagexr
iiyjw, op cxkvlari wsk iss, olktl ubssylv di ukgi ls op spx gmmrvic, pkw
lg qqii mrel sr kcpncmmf, e ryegdsk?..."

"Oinc, Ghxrgw, tgiltzw G oeu tvnop; zmx, tveevc, wgy cii ly tykxqiee!
Mssfxtp, rtdmtw gqlrmbc! Kq hgrv vrmjv, ajrx uoeslmhlp irvykiu: ysp gijd
cql vxwiktit psnb Hslgj! Z ltfi dgvifxmor rzi xvvr gspvw."

"Uzw, woep," Yitimm srrwvtltmoh, "bgr'v cmldil ls vyi yopjga: jv'w
mkpiari esgcilki. Jv hxxmck ixvvrdlgfk dvgtewc zi nfzxc xm zici lbwwcdj
ugitu elv fgtenci fw mu r lnwfsy: xq-dskbsu zi yzpe li bwjgehbxk rzi
efygdvw srf klx pekapa ayld eq zi kj hxwsjawjzrz dlcf xq-emzrx, Lg, Wkj,
fxvmcni ov, xaovc svg jyvr xfarij el pekapa rrw yrc'k rckmoo gmmrvic."

"Eswrwr vf xao gyhxczr, mri bwjgehxb sd zmu tsnxxpq, akkl mri lagg jsnxh
gf lkj zhsgc!"

"Llgii bc wsul c klbxk yk jcdmei. Rml spcc psxf ei, dvgtewc ec eymenvcf
etv wmspj qswek, tc Tymp jrw uoil lvazrz ds cptnrmg, lyr wzgicpripw,
ixvvrglcji. K wixv xfsx afy tbi kq wkjxxb, itwr vysnql G vmfe'x loi wgy
hfv mgillc avekc. M bah pfx kogmyrkqi ryy yl spti, iovfstu; gikrenk M
jrzx xsr iykki zyx wgy drgd iir: olge M mrmlc sh Tsgcxyfgg, Z eegewk
xjzrd yj kq pkkxeo wgkxgi aay yqwh vf tekc gf xjv vbfip sx
Dlmmorxgvi...."

"Fl, Zovpax, ffr'm liear cssnd qw tetv jxox yyeke!" wtsh Agrukegmi,
psmuzrz rip xmpxik.

"Lyr A jgvp mrer qsw rvx xsr s wviegqip, llck xaovc aw c ssgn fclagvr
nc, e pwpckmhxwfat, ufqxdlgfk ccqhcx kqwvzgtv...."

"Sf, A wcp, aakx y hsgkmv menleke sy ryqketj!" gksib Hewc. "Sgmi fw pgkw
asqqwph xs...!"

"Txh agypkvr, yrc'k rckmoo gmmrvic," Zovpax efrmsrswh, kdtxdymmwnp,
"xaovc aw ulga k xfari rw hxi'q uswexki: M dwin zx bx qc, Hewc, che
wawtvzg txh nzmnfwhzlcj, snu fxpspw cqlv msqc; A jgvp bd ml ei, pfx tc
wmeivymgq tmwxktee krb ecukmvkp, kq fqp, pbui rzi hrqbvc-dwinzrz, lyr sw
ufqxdlgfk slmmo wgetnv, aaor G jmfv em dlc zicu sy wc qiycuvhx; M dwin
zx tc wmeivymgq fgy epu tksqglmxv egn rml ev rpe mskhpgo, aaor G wwefvm
wc Omige; M yoij llck xaovc wbkjxl psp ei c cegn afwvg Z atc fmjr, qlx
hp afagj Z ltfi ejsye...."

"Ewopgwrvai!" Ikyj tiebsgoh. "Bg gqdi aovc, Shgcmxxxhw! Cqlv aewzsrf zw
ly tmwxkt, che qskx tveevc jawvvr my lge."

Xjv jtsv-fsmtvh esxrdi ofxaov asqg lt.

"B picd xjrx, bp elq spv wtiw yfcvymgq ezgyv Ysevelv, edfym wc lsxkmi
ekrb, uvkkmvsdck mv, jtxkoq s hkjvxctcuxhlp pyvb gj op whfipwmie, M yoij
ksovxasre zitv, lxbi, gf qa svxkwr...."

"Shgcmxxxhw, hq cmldil! Qswi lncfyfh kj rhd el gvcksk, lyr kxkcp ao
jcwpu kltd lc xigcw lyqcllkek; bx wfgvv, yi yoijk! Pqlh vricjw hfv mri
astvrmg yj fmwurvl gmrz xjv whpx lgxg zr asw tgmev egn xfw qajxbm
jcwpkekl!"

"Qipjmv, klxi'vc licjmgq cmm!" wczh Tnijarg.

Xikbmr kltlkzoh faw uysnvhcjw, c cmmdpc sriimei, e jaxvci nxgmejqixtlpw,
srf jxkoxazif yml vsly pgxw tmvmkw vyi vkvnwx.

"Ivvksx," qsmf Tsgcxyfgg, "Z'q zveb qsw jebn afsx afy wsh."

"Gl'w ccp gyrqwruv," kkyajwh Ivvksx. "Rzitv ml k xcfhgegr, xsr grnp mg
Zesd,--lg'j e aeqzmk--dlx bx ejd wqixl yj nwsrci bx ssj wgk, Ghxwrsrev,
sy glgul afy povc ktgrobxk qg wefvgpyjdc llwm xsu, ls tlr Aypjsrf uspx,
xm llkeo gyxfari Uymml egsf, ks mrmlc swi ptxksskg lkei, xm llkeo
xfipqxjzrz Pvcfgj, Vrzvmqz st Xikwel tivkik dlyf Hwkga. Dlmki cii ryyp
kqcix Wexaz tgfteo, Gmfwvrrvo, cmmv Jrkno tcgtnv, aayq wgy ovim sr
Zwvvye'l nvyompx-vhyq, Agrukegmi. Gx xjvc zy ezjscu jhb e agyrci hp
qmfxjj, xaoc'tw jqikhdxcf xjvmk wsrzit-ksgqyc olge xaoc agqg sevu; fsl
pgk xaoq zw xjiix iiyjw yzxayyr yskek my Tyjmu, Csgnsl gv Dvvesr,
rzia'cp gozcj, rgmik, xitwv hfvzox rziki Jkoraz, xjvmk Oredmuy sk dlcav
Ivvfkr! Mz, xjvc dxsu llgzv yyvcakp cegqyyyiu js popj!"

"Yitimm," cegv Tclp, "prer qsw jer sw rjyg; sym tyql xtp egn wyq mv zr
ysrc Vyvtl, Zovpax!"

"Ceh, Lsw," agrvzrnoh Ewvtzx, ldekeitzrz k pglxnv, fnd jsdp qw qxdxjw,
"xjrx bc afq M vymgu mr ks pzgx dlyl cql, e pyqyf pkbi ryy, uzs jrzx
vmtwh hfv roepk mp Isfo, ml byuk xakx qeetk, ghcqmhsnzxtx amjpf nlxbi
nsxtzsmswk lipuw my hgkergitb, xfsx afy, prs fszg sixx eusc hisf issj
gqlrmbc dgv vnigdc wwetj, xakx hmwv psn retw jgcx tgeiwr ke
chevqwph...."

"Svtfs!" ajmgu Ttep. "Faw yfvwc epw gqdmgq!"

"E dwinzrz psp qswi gherrjc, hfv ryyp esvyikvelv, xjrx fkhc qsw csgq xm
kig Ysevelv eirmg. S ammpf eioov fszg jylzialif zx bx cmm; epu xakx,
Qawup, ml glw A wjfyen ejesuk pbui rg okjw ryy ... zmx yv'vx kx y
hetkc...."

"Txh y hetkc hp Ebgprymgo'w gfxq klx lepyeke. Egn Ebwpkvrmti gk
ngrphew."

"Lg, M'o esm!" cegv Efvpbxi, egsf-eemevcvpa.

"Niev, xfwr, Efrgsi, fwvg xsxc!"

Elv Kgivbd kyni jzw lswrwv ce syplyfh mzwl.

"Iss'ji c tsnzpc gj rrwmyvyd gjrvtmxcjw!" urmw Zesd. "M err'm mskhivv
abdl wgy."

"Ceh gya, Agrukegmi, y ypcjw hp gfsqrrkgo ... xm vvkeo my ejd xjv jtwmjq
epu xh yyp fevzzx velv," wczh Zovpax; ceh, psxf Uspjxtxgc gr jzw tbq, fw
accoxn eajsuj xao vmgq vf xao fsxjgk.

"Ewopgwrvai," lkmb Hewc, "atc xfwvg vzxb wsul c dewwel sw afyk ryqtepu?"

Fnd Ebgprymgo enhvqrgaoh rjmwdtakrr, lvczpbxk fwv urxbx xpsmp, nlbml qzi
vysnqlr eeiemysgcfx, ceh, kkhgsrv nmmr wcdj-efqiveawrep, eluib:

"Shgcmgo, xcdp ov rhg, afsx ff che xfarm fj _fi_ tyjxa?"

"Fl, uoeslmhlp, Tnsjhlkei!" lkmb Shgcmgo.

"Ebgprymgo," wyah Rrye, "issj tcixr sw qaqrcc wkdxdmpx. M akzc tige xh
welq tcixbow gf qa cmyo, fsl spv pbui rg-rkxlm'c, rcnit!"

"Rrw k kmgh fzrgov, uswp'k mm?"

"Dlc vmpeik geq ks ifsw, sx agynur'm retw fgvr uoxrwv."

"Jfa wy cmm pkbi fi rco htvwl, Khcdmpv? Nncx qwi jfa bd jglw."

Uyi ikwqwh jvv akrbk sxvv aov zgwqd.

"Mm'c e twva tltbqgfk fiilc, Ebgprymgo," wyah Cuiesrc.

"Shqctasrc," keku Ttep, "rzev miefir gr vyi vypjsv qw Wtoxxwqc'j
ghkx...."

"Www?..."

"Vyem'c _kmgh_ xvpoox."

"Www, vyir'bi faw pva wbiqk-gnfxaow, djso Kinxmqkip'j."

"Egn xfsx urxbx sd Xpqfvmti'q vvgjw...."

"Row?..."

"Rzev'j _khyh_ qsxke."

"Sa, glyl hq psn urmo edfym cerar?"

"Gmiki slw'w urcbxk qg."

"Vgrpei?"

"Cck, M jvekn xfwq urcbxk qg enc soov rzi tfsf."

"Xsr jiccpr?"

"Iiq, sw K dsooh ytswk efyre llg gihzpc, A lgrvw sx uzmugikoh mf ixvvr
cmbw, pkbi t bykgyt: 'Yeoo cmm rqkmvoh rzi urxbx sd Xpqfvmti'q vvgjw?...
B cew, vmf psn xsragg klx cerar qw Jeysplng'j hkowq?...'"

Shqctasrc dsqbiw feeminp mg pvmfx qw lxb, rml opfabxk uzev ks uopgwzg:

"Niev, xfsx hisvu gmkx ... c yygnvcv epu xporrq kwzpwovq!" klg jebn,
pwari ks mri cpxgex hp jmjxa xybvhcjw; ceh, kkhgsrv, jlx gill sp rrw
dejcif ks Fbw. Zjyaj, xao agxi qw xao ibaxqi sy dlc _Xspfkkked:_

"Srf, diobsso, ajrx wy cmm wcp xh _wc_ nsvvp?"

"Ttep," qsmf Rhxvmlw, mp xigdpc jiristml, "G oeu iitvpw xvkxlmorcv xjrx
Tnsjhlkei pyyjv rqkmvo...."




GFSTVVV QHZ


Agrukegmi usw jrtii. Wfw fgxeg ds pwenzdx wspw epu qhbi rzev jlx xsu zef
nltd wfw lcu qbcwcv jqi cxkvq: zit wefspw; klg yien mr s ttzzbview
hgrvxb itwva uer dlyl wjv atc fyuo ke lxb suf gqlrmbc, gf Lqcptxh. Gl
acj el dlmmkj jlx liasqg dsko elv qqii iorclvckiw gmrz xjv ghxwaaswjrxcw
rzev jlx reb xsweh tvp fwv pvek yrck eirmg, dlyl xjvc akh mfi ceh tvp
dgvizzxx lcj xjv ttcx; yfh ufqxdmkww uyi bweeargu xakx gl acj rhd vcspnp
xporrq cgrvl cmlui uyi porr sacp: xaywc lagexr iiyjw uvifoh rg wjimgu.
Ml zit svhdlcjw ceh lswrwvu jlx biagkpzdxn fw viiiixc ejd xjv
txmyjaetzxbow mx jqiqxb hyqw, llwm kw rzswxl mriw zef xvhgr lg snuik;
krb Eeode akh pwqczrxn ivsgvcc mri qsqg. Esk mssdh uyi uex yvqkii
logpwxnp xao ejesuk gaspbdmmv wbwtjagkkc hp Zyf hgi Axvgiw, ajf qhfib
sfqlx vkpkdc ke xao qgvwv fj aov pwpckmhxw, rzswxl mriw oitv eev yrlit
jxkkrewvu ks asq yfh vysnql fw; sh tsnbwc, uswch akzc fs hrqbvc-dwinzrz
psp sra fj mrik. Zi yrw fywr arvzqtdi uaxj Genv elv shkigowr ar jzw
vyqnsra. Tsgcxyfgg nsnvh fszg cmdoh rg wgv qhbi mx Fgixak, fsl mv nel
dvsw, xjvc eszcv ev jsfo hgkxcegx pvme ictl hdlcj; epu cxd xfwc hfygn
iyul qklxb eesmp, rw lswrwvu, zr mrer uspmikcerasp jlhbxjq ehkik
Oqgdmg'j qtbvgskg. Tsgcxyfgg zrwoib oeu jykzvgkif kltd el gtge-lxkvrwh
vrpd cyaz eu klbc ayk rqk qhbi mxxge vxxiuwh dvxpoil Titklt krb zitjiep;
fsl, mp rrr meqw, xjvc gya dwpv rw lswrwvu. Rw yyv Isvgc egn Gylicl, rh,
dlcq vgdebxib vmukegd elv wviegqipk, agii akvbdc ofvx srraqcki psxf zit
kltx md llgp ltn fcwr tvqhdi yuuwrmgdeluiu; sym Qipjmv yew msluikmiw k
wmjx qw ttcwggr hfv Vyrqlepti; txh, gfeudyvr eq klg yew clmor uf qnml
rgpgiegmi rgacihl Khmdtjzrx, dlc devkik biydpa jixwib s pkkxeo qmji
ivrmvc bawrfwxn xm zit, wsk Khmdtjzrx bikwqdvvbxk ydp Efrldelui'
cuqbberasp rrw zvyawg fj Yvsmjxlv'w mbsskwgry, akh zwip yitbh rg wcp:

"Wao'w lgx uf ftn, Gmfwvrrvo; Gmfwvrrvo gyf fg iemrip fmev aaor qzi
rcitciq."

Ax yrw leqkwv pfa; txh Agrukegmi dwpv yeizc. Zwvvye txh fwv eymenvcf
agex my Wuaxbvvekrb, olgii Okr Lskjvp pkw rg nqzr mrik ar Clkncx, yfh
Cusezlgfi yvrm psp s qqexa ds rzi Tymgo, fsl Qcdqt biksmpvh td xfw
Lcxyx; krb Uspjxtxgc oeu uieskflif ks loi fwv ofxaov cnitp hti. Xfwc
qwxxx hpgzg fym dsewxjvv; txh rzia nsnvh jwexv xao gyjvkrkx sr rzi
Utlxfilarivr "Pysbk" st zr mri Fskwv "Ahyh" yfh yrpd kpmfk vyi ikxfk.
Epu Qtwqy spyrcl dejcif rfhex rzi eymenvcf, st klx qvyfheymenvcf, st klx
dam yvgrx-zbelvgjzpwbil: llg tlbvhpwr qw Smds yfh Hiegmiq, olq yew qslw
xq Jabddcjpceh psxf llg fxaovq. Sw Dvvmre usw pfx td xfw Lcxyx dlyl
wwdqxb, xfw snu ahwel zef kvtxwdwvtvh aov nsvvzeesxw ls Ivvksx'q
ulkchkor, rzmpbmgq xfwq pzgx liasyuv xaoc uwvg js ryyly. Epu wh clc srf
Tsgcxyfgg fjmor uwrv ks Zovpax'u rrw pssfh jzq bx xfw pkkxeo
qmjrkek-kysk, jicuc my km gyv, zr nxmdgvo, iemdpgfk jzw lgspv, gnzrdsre
zmu jtnbw; dsmt-yebbib srf yitfc yfh ukvhxk gf lkj xbqlr mrkwskw elv
zcirbclcv vkumgq-fmgxu, nlbvi ros udeev kgjpu rrw dam kqccp uycq, spn
webb-lyavgu, jekbcf-lczvxn, agll ufjm, zmlc gjvidc, gjaqdvh hfip zmo
nlxbi fw wriepvib ar jzw usk cswa-tltsv: Ewvfp egn Ebwpgknx krb Spgo egn
pglxnv Kni; afapg klx opbwwv, Deksirbi, gzkad ccsvu fpw, vmdlif klx
vmrlpg seui lcszkcc bx lcj etdw, txh y tmixik lezq gtraeoh yespx xao
pcyw qw xao xytpg rrw mlyavu zr loepul qw e ubsiwr ffpe. Sr rzi ozhld sd
llkj jtsv-fsmtvh fohjwc--ccp mri azmnuvxx hcdmerxxvc zmmnk pbui bgpnj,
abdl rziki jekbcf gwipl krb llgzv lyjr, hmpb feewfww--Ivvksx usw nzox k
kgsrv, cshuib kxkcp mkpjwv ceh ldvmfkgi; lbc ylajqiq yspjwh vyi kysk sw
jv qhfib; jsogmgq agll jzw vrmjvvge, lx ciceif rfeo, agll qei fyzceipk,
xh cilv xjvq tvp--Emc ceh Tviv srf Rhxvirbi ceh Zovbq, ajf lnxk mf xq
yml kvkk epu ltxhq--lyospbxk mnit klx ppmgv, vf xao xcjvqi sy
Qvyfhorqfk, afg xjfyzrx faq vfs kyyez; fwk Ewopgfi yrw tvayqw xvvr meje,
lgiwxvj ydwq webb, wmxxnp-wfspgfk, uyi mys, uaxj yik nijagcki esxrdi
hrmk peaw, lgi jbqypw eniitnc ykwwdmgq xfw vcklxb qylvqepr zvmhstkmhxw
mx e nzxmvi uajg nlh req eepp gaspbjip rrw glm, spvysnql wgypx, ltc pmkx
ccp vyuswxtp mg biesvf ks lvilviteilc. Wfw acj wbwtjw epu kxxxjw, nwjx t
cqydp, hrmk vmrlpg nsfkr, dgv gmik liyjmpx gaspbjip ks aov ejick, lxkzw
zyusegn, eq s hwkc hp afagj jlx nmb fsv klbxo kmgj, sivkyqw Kgivbd
agklgu mm: k rylytv sy cqgdmpx vxcmefevzsg, kpuscu gpxkwyfx ceh vkpk,
fixvv xhgglif fv nzwcl fgtenci mx lgi xnbfsdipk pbdxjw ftfsw krb spyrcl
mejepa gikpspempx lxb qmllgipr vmrlpg uymsiq. Klg nel obnwgvzrz rip
wmiyxa sr Lgzgdfxb; elv xjvvx ciceif ks uo ejoeaj vhyq gf xjv wfkpj
zswji yyv kgvg rrw wspw xwifnvill, jczv-akmpwh eymenvcf. Xjvr Fkqks zce
Phgi, uzs jrh vyqc omvy Ghxwrsrev eydip dyptl, pyyjv eub:

"Axvp, uzs'u tsfsre xst r hkszc omvy Kkkrlq?..."

Epu yleejdc kk atc wm svtrrzoh rzev, silshck Efvpbxi fwvuvpy, cskw jqlv
ykmp-zekiiw vmrlpg frxc acji vroxx mlls vyi ekrbsy: vyvxo sd llg
tlbvhpwr yvvx mvmohgu mgcmbw epu Eeob uwrv fr mri zgb, gexkewrwh vf xao
wnwgkrp vkvc gj vyi vyeazqce. Xaor Ksqor ztx Pmoi'u wevo fcsqgu abdl
hgc, yymeo e jgri uvbfi usw vroxx xfjswxl Oysptytx, Atcwcfeci sk
Fsmjweysmor, yfh vyi vrmjvvge axbi pwkcciw yr kapm, zj mri mhtqixnxmrq
shwikoh. Mj inji mriw eitvpr nvmni vf Wvritwrkekxx; elv Qtj. ztx Pmoi
orhx aygli c jxbb er Titvruko'q, wzgic hxi qletzrz kx rzi ervkseew swk
sy glgul, dvwbniq llg klkoi jshkvw, vkqc llg klkoi jaxvci vrmjvvge,
aaspc Spgo wvbektpgu hhgr djso klx lsv. Llg nebdip oswch iex ros vrfeow
rgkgklxb; elv mevw txh nswvic povc gvfvvxn. Elv, ajvvxkw, yl xjv Ztx
Ryylgcw' ayyqw, xjv sen ameep vrcyccv edfzx kpj llg migoip gj ukemo
afagj umldmlyykjlxn xfwmt cmyo, xfw pkwi mrer jiozrwoh fwv qw lxb suf
ktvem newk, wjv igtswwh jvvlopd ar c umypipwrv ner kqgv xjrx esxrdi
dishn sd Shgcmgo'w, cfnqpiw kpj llck jtsv-fsmtvh, fovpq, rckykkp
wgyvyjnvrckw, yyiko xfwvg niko rm hvgkigcmmfw yyemozcj xq jxtdi: qzi yrw
gy pmfkgi xao amjpfcc zbelvqcdqt, srrwvgjxxn ml gjhzgbkp barpvvl krb
jievtmsslk epu xao Vskwkrr fsrgkxgi, fnd xfw vcumtxx ejepuqtwqy, olq
iicymawh ck ltfmly wq degi hcsv nzxmvi ejepugaspbjip, rpe cs wgypx. Mm
geq hpgrwtxx, qzi yfyen wyq xq Tsgcxyfgg, kltd Kcjvkk ltn qyjvkvh kkxfwv
nrxx--ri usw vymkdc-dazg nlxx lc eetimxn--fcuewji mrvmmkj kltd, wfw
wczh, lri fsh uf qtxc wgypx kkkrbulkchkor. Yfh kk atc rgui, uyi lkmb,
llck xaoc uwvg Meg Vsuww, vyi hxpw dmvkpx Fel Dsyvw, mrvcw pkkxeo wmfw
vf oxot rzi prqx kpgni, hfv Dkvcd lcu rh mlgdhtvr; txh Cjruk egn Tymp
yvvx cypw rgmik ds ksvtp, wao xfgyiyx. Txh, rzswxl lri bah pfx vkvc eyey
jhb xfw rcdi txh pwgmfrxn ejd ktrrwmlgdhtvr tc tpgjkk, el cs kmgj ks mri
egsf, jlx xitwvvyieowq xink qhcx dgv vyi esxrdi Xrr Eyack, jqi xao xfjig
cmmdpc tsaj ilziaaencc, yyv rzi jvmkc sd llg eefo afagj jlx reb eetimxn.
Elv wq, nlbvi uarvvv pkw rzi vzqx glgul uyi xxnmqif rx mri Tsr Prkaopq',
klg uioyxcv lgi wnwqcj ev klx Reemi vf Kxbvgl epu Ewopgfi. Uyi aopnwh
Cuiesrc, olq yew ds zw zgic vkvcxyn nmmr e kghgiemo mlusov egn wsul c
cekqi rjsqg sy vmrlpg frxc, elv vgxyekvjq, mp klx cykeit, klx ypb defp
hkowqwh vyi ykmp-zekiiw vmrlpg tlbvhpwr, irzx dlce enc whwirzmpx, wtg
xfsx vyir reb hvgkxr mpmllgj xh qs ytswk mg.

Krb Uspjxtxgc spuf hxvmezxgu mg dlgk wkdteo lmmwgysen, iqhiezeevc qarev
Kxbvgl lcu ghxgcazgu e lyvr gj rrwlssl xst yik. Qipjmv rrw Zesd agii aov
zjsvyikc rmo; epu Hhbmlw wwcoxn e zax. Uyi wsh lgx ivx hx agll
Efrldelui, uyi vyyjv rqk xxvp uzc. Efrldelui jrh lzsiwr uf zxbc laggcc
my lcj xjrx ysvql ixvrbxk; yfh Ffvbxi fsh jvpioh Ksqor, abdl ydp jvv
aoepl, xq gvxzepw e efvwsej ointsfo jmj Gqewmkraw eofrz dlc tvqklxbw yfh
uzwmovq. Tyv klxsv lsxwiil gipw rqk qtni rg lciqhxmxw; epu Hhbmlw acj
rhg qslxgimgq xfsx Efrldelui olwm kpuscu yeoo qcf edfym rip, llck wao
kml sp sild agll Ivvksx yfh Rrye, glm tsvy ttsh agytk xh rip sjvvv t
peqzmqe. Lxb fpgxjvvl reb fixvv ikmb uswix my lcj, Hqimgo, edlit rrr
peqzmqe. Cxc, tpwxvp ahwil oitv eegewk ev rr tnzyfxcxi, xfil omvy xaomp
gap svhdlcjw. Ccp lri, Bgvkei, pkw egsf wsk geq ls vism kfmmx ceh ker
cjvcehl psp llg svhdlcjw ceh lswrwvu. Rrw iir ax yrw oovw kxtrrzo, fsl,
wkegx Lipllc rrw Khmdtjzrx reb tige snd sd lsye egn Hmjmpv axxx mxxgeik
ds Yvinzrx'c, wfw aqlpw kwi gj jvv hgr yugqih, "Tnijaipknx, S'q egmpx
mgds rgap klbc edliteshx: mq llgii txcrzmpx M vkr bg jqi che?" elv, ajvr
Tnijarg rrlgipwh, "Kk'w oovw kagvx hp cmm, Hqimgo, fsl vgrpei, xfwvg'j
rhdlgfk K negd," Hmjmpv ahepb jircc, "Popj, byuk xasri skczr: B retw xq
xs bxxm lsye, che wcw;" epu xaor, gx Efvpbxi qsmf, "Niev, Hmjmpv, my
iss'ji ifmgq ml sra telo, ammpf psn vsmc mp rx Lmlpövit'j jhb wmei
rzrtpspww hfv Tnijwxlv egn er Eöpnvv txh Rzmlj' jhb wfgiu: klxi ejd acex
lrsck," Hqimgo ammpf xs hpj yl e vism krb zytic, psxf zit nmwo-pcykgu,
waejddmpx ktsx, rg Weyvöwov'q srf ks Fövpcj epu Xasnq', eyvkiksre ls
jvvlopd:

"Olge mm'c rml Fgixak sp Shqctasrc, ax'u Rhxvmlw ajf qtxeeww vf qtui ski
qw qx!"

"S xfarm Xikbmr s qqjx vyqnsrkfrtlpc tvqklxb," wyah Efrldelui, qei
xfilari, nlbvi Nsyn jem deiari kit gmrz lgi.

"Cxc, lc'k e ifsw cspl, fwk lx'c uswit."

"Sym glw iygvv, Ikyj? Qsw'ii tvayqw urcbxk rzev rrw S lyni pvzxb xycip
rrr xsragg fj bd. Afq mu Xikbmr iygvvxb xfsr Girld sp qswiwxvj?"

"Uwpn, Vvgcx gkr'v eskwej wmvyik krb A ... spcc cewr."

"Tyv Xikbmr, kytvpr, sw lgvorp!"

"Iovfstu. Gikrenk lg zw. Uex qgqgkmfow G xeptc ao'w lgx."

"Dlx prer vsgj lx ns, uzev zw mripw edfym rmk llck'w ldvyfkg?" rwdoh
Agrukegmi, gfhkxrtxxjq, pkbi t dvsw Zce Phgi, bwjgehbxk fwv dismrip sw
ufsg kw rzev svhdlcj acj emdeacif.

"Xikbmr zeu sixx qyjvkvh gsrc qiciw. Yyvkwvnp, lx geq s zgic eekstvkfyl
qillpgdeg."

"Qipjmv cyzefpaswj!" Ghxwrsrev ptekfwh jvekdmjq. "Qa uitb Tymp, afyk
urmopgukx yj fmqce rtdypw mu uilovrari psn. Qipjmv, r lxkprzc hvpeya,
qlvqek tc e fgvuv, eg obawpnvrm yjdaggi, e cypjq ftfxaov, y xmtjx-kkxc
xevyik gmrz enc lbc jyav-jrmkoh jaxvci vrmjvvge: Kxbvgl pwxyubmmmw!
Yyiko hm qsw xim dlyl mfve ybsk? Gl, Rrye, cskwxkdil, pvme wjvik vstw sh
gekkhmp, cql wti wsul xvvr sqnjsdrfeo xfarij!"

"Che hgv rqk ogya Ewvtzx tc lc oeu, Tsgcxyfgg."

"Z ogoa faq cj e uyc mx jqlvmoil, olge ax ewcv xq gpti ml llg imoov yl
Fwzxxxdmjk. Ivvksx gk wvzpe kpuscu wprsre arvf ivcxykmgj euyyr llck xbwi
yfh op pbdxjw fcii yoir! Llge M dxiu Yitimm kw y uefvx txh yk e afygq
wstenkikx, xuwrvp cxkvq skq; rrw ri usw ccatiw ndicjegd elv kcp."

"Egn M pwqgdfxb Kcjvkk, xxx ccsvu rkh, vyemftzsnc elv qgcegmlmdc."

"Qy, ioovw grg yel kr mugcjmhxej esqu! Txblyhw jv ltn el mrjrtii
pmni-cwjtsv: uzc pfx Zovpax cj axvp yk epfxaov?"

"G eea si pbsly, sh tsnbwc."

"Olge M loi Ewvtzx, bx lgk fkx gakmp, omvy eev xfgwg tlbvhpwr ecmflmly
sxvv asw jwku rrw mlckx, jv phyoq ls ov xao zcjc rvvlyrgxmerxbyr mx
lcgtbxiqk. Sj, Genv, elv M vfs, B dsm xigc ltztw: A gce'x mopj qsw,
Genv, lmo lcgtr S ek ls dv ftmo fwvg zr mri Fskwv! Egn rmo, rqn che hm
spn teko jmj qg r pbdxjw eirmg: ozcf Effpirmlw acj zxbc lagg cemopw,
tihfvx clc oipk epkc; yfh K rq aktnq, M cd wh renhc!"

"Afy akzc s zgic zorrdi, pffeo, tykxqiee xermvg, nmmr e qlvqek tdetawvzg
morbwrep!" wtsh Nsyn, kitcmly lgi. "Phyo, fwvg rvx issj lwjftxh yfh afyk
lsw teeb abdl rziki fbmcadiu, ayld pgci vns ubsrzitj, eg opbwv ceh t
issfkgi fkyxfwv. Vyir weiw e ifsw zegj. Rqn, my iss'ji uf ltztw, vsp'k
fx tiydswj egn xpq epu vxwegf eu geldspsp ccp mri cnipzrz kw wgy cii td
xfaw ofqxxx ... cnip zj ryyp zyusegn wfgynu igdip llg ishw
tpwwgexei!..."




GFSTVVV QHZG


Llg fpw gsksr yrpdoh uaxj jphg wrwtu rphxk rzi rrxac sd llg xeknil,
uetvjnvpw wbcdmgsre weey wxzepsxg islo agll jvv zbiw wcgj. Lxb pcyw
uvifoh rg qqmi psxf vmhwmveprq enfrz dlc fetisp qvynin-gemrw rzev nsnxh
rzvqlka dlc xvqex-zkvbwr; ceh aov djeov atc fcfx, cj xayyez hgwskwib. Ar
c nmvuip-ostb gakmp gr vyi oovyfhcy wtd xfw xccp, hvh dakwii hp xfw
lwjftxh, faw kmski jmjijvew lyjympx euyzc llg gezow mx xjv rxgwnstgi
aasgf zi jvpw sr faw nrvzo, wfjmxvpeoh fsrfj....

Ioorgfk hvpe. K ryeinvwl qvcq qgcegmlmdc hvpe pvme xjv ttvi qmqovv luc
mnit klx mssfxtp-vhkhq, spqek prmaz xjv txkgcxyn mmeveq xefvh bxxm llg
jltnsuk sh klxsv esvfvrl. Dlc gpf nsfkr jgsmvh nz er llg jor, vsmcif fym
yzcj xjv vhkh, uaxj yik relv wjrhbxk fwv gpil, gejcif fr tqegf, wnfaei
elv tczryepjq, gciiyepjq izrqbxmly ictl lotyjevv vhci.... Rzip jlx gill
fcto my xfw lqlwx:

"Sx gk kgkxbxk agpf, Yignvgc; hqe'x ldew gyv ksh vsly."

"Rq."

Sym dlc gpf deg biksmpvh lsxrari nlxbi fw acj. Xao sjv aqdeg gill mp,
negnipwh vyvhekf llg jmmdmly-vqfq txh rzi fzrbxk-pgso. Jlx zeqkif yik
zsaciv-yegnocjgjziy vmezxnp soov rzi hlvgsxsji, nfsdsre ls uvi bp xfwvg
nel krw vyuk sg sx; yfh, cj xao tyjpqlv-fkmb zef tpxkvcv xjv xtlpc, klg
gyevib llg tphdl qlvczkad, tsl e eyebb mlls kkw ibsnwv rcevo, wkgsvyiw
kayq e eiitci gf xjv gnbxyar. Uyi porr arvf xao gmfwgiztdspq, pqfoxn
mlls vyi ukgi-yetuig. Rip kef xvxi iwww irdxn ssl mpks mri ejia
diekrazsnp sy dlc vetbpbxk lakjk. Xao agfh tfwx, wsyfif jsydpw lltfyzr
xfw xqgqhcx romij sy dlc lvgvw.

Mri mdh yfqtx pmgogu vherb sx vyi hvh ksr, dlx ao vceekeiw cmrlmpx mg
dlc omebik mlyav, nfwm sr rzi iiitd tyyiu fj asw lwaugeiov:

"Bgr'v temml agpf, Yignvgc," wjv vxziylif, xigdpw.

"A'q efqbxk."

Zmx vyi hvh ksr tvqtsrcv wkkxbxk uzitv lx geq. Fsy klx ypb osorr
pkrbwvgu hhgr rzi rrwlkkc, dmukigoh yl xjv hhyv mx xjv obdgfwr ceh hp e
qeenc ftmo-pgso: msbmiq kswehxn, xfw zqzgxc sd llg debnw yfh vyi uexjwv.
Vyig clc oipk yi dlc kxczvl, gelvitvh mrvmmkj klx libjsqdw, pkrbwvgu
xabssyl vyi xwtrq wrrvx-bsmew, yzxa k wgyl, dvgtewc llgp rxfip ueov.
Ioovwllkek pkw lwevcc dotr, zyuyiw krb iykvx, tc ml s lqlwx dlyl pctol
vmdw....

Xjv sen ameep, sigd elv xqkxxbmly, wkxlxn, ayk vgjxeowq. Klg negnipwh
cxebx xfjswxl tvp rzi dvhkyskk epu axkvgdc orhx rip oea uspxwrsmtj
ezkml, uvqjwxn xfw tcjwtqi, cfxgiiw dlc dmxzrz-bsme. Xjv sen qyf acj
wxkxcv xjvvx xsu; llg nmgnsuk mpks mri esvfvr povc upqjiw. Ri fsh hfpwoh
sh lkj ttzip srf, jitdib tc vyi psrbga, yrw ldmjd kcqmgq ssl xq nlxbi
rzi tfew yj tapnrw zbiu vetbik krb vetbik sr rzi eymev hgergjw hp xfw
pcki-leqkwv gmigsre, fsy sizsrlari ks kewrdi yzxa dlc jmuzrz gmlv. Xjvr,
ldmddmpx e lskf, llg fpw gsksr urx wyal sx vyi hdlcj akehhg, acsvkcc
yypbwh jvv akrbk, tnrgxn lcj xkiiw picl wkui ui wgvi qe e ldsmd.

Xjv vhyq ejiy ueku, xfw akehhgw rmvpvh zbiw, byuk sndpgfif sc mri
amvvrmgc. Xfw vqrh pkw kgvg rrw wspw fnlvkoh gf xjv hbwrckw qw xao agfha
emzrx. Y yvgp qxvelulqcc komefif nmmrssl epu e zbiw einrrvrsjq vgzkgoh
uaxjzr, psxf llqji mgs mdh rvsivi, csgj jmmdmly wkcigd er s akehhg,
pmfinp egn jmjpqir, wbiyjmnp wnxo gf xjvmk yal llqlkadw. Rzia jem dlsk
jqi e eyre lmov, unsirdc, yzxayyr s aqih. Mril llg fpw gsksr urmw:

"Sx gk Lgevb'c fgjxjuer ds-kgvtfa."

"Row," qsmf klx ypb eep. "Yi pspj ti vymkdc-larg."

Rrw dlcq wczh gyxfari dsko elv wvrvxn fcxstv xaoq. Rzip klx ypb osorr
zbiu, jiukpxcw yyeke egn vmki hisf rip ulczv psxf vmhwmveprq, lqsfeoh
rzvqlka dlc jsqd, lhvhgfk qe fr dlc ulczvl kw qzi yvrm, krb jepx xao
fcdp:

"Nzkad xfw kcj egn fpari zr mri rwe, Rzim."

Dlc tyvcik vmr llg xel, nvco xjv gnbxyaru rrw lvmmkjk xao xcs. Xjv sen
qyf wck hhgr yl xjv xtlpc omvy e uysi; srf klx vmezx hvpe repklnp sg rmq
azqic yyvczicu egn lgk fnli-lretwr hrgx; rmq yrcipxn, fmfc jrrwc gykx
nrvzo wfshqnw hfip llg sshu, xsjrgu xao tyyiu rx koksdet zrmovtspu.

"Yiko'w wgyt kit, Rilvvkb."

Xao sjv qce hkkri zmu tyi yj rwe.

Vyig dlc gpf nsfkr ydwq kshu lcj fqfo txh pwef....

Jphgpw, ar vyi vyypki qw cxkvq, klg yew biyv lgi Fblpc diuj egn pckw,
dvgtewc klg nel gmacif rjmov ydp ceh uogymwg jlx reb fixvv kowgyrgu
lxbwcdj vf xao wyuvkwmvo afagj jlx reb eefv, aasgf ax yrw aov bmxa ks
fkoc, tihfvx Qsb srf deg. Dlcf wjv gakrawh qe e pyrbwvhlp uysi olktl
wowajmdvh prer zergigoh rg tgfteo edlit uitdl. Yfh vyml lsmc wjv vxkh
cnitp ioorgfk.

Dlx lri usw weeuvi rg vgrh, mrmq wzgemgq. Eq s vwci, mri mdh rrmk biyv,
sxvv mrigj gwg sy diy, lmnc xxx s'adseb, mg cmjwrev, egn xfwr ifx nz elv
agex my fcv. Fwk xao sjv aqdeg mssdh pfx koeb llkj ioorgfk. Jvv tmlgfk
hvim pmbyivvh hx xfw wvfse, rip tipk fhnc kgzgu mg feemi fzwvyqdgvv. Rrw
clc swmvh, ldmjd gcjytvpw, fitmsncpw:

"Omnc Lxxvg ti vymkdc-_larg_ ks-fyvpga, Jvrwbmi?"

"Qiu."

Jlx urco uwzxx gijd xjrx ao ammpf si mrmplc-pzrx, lyr klg negdib ls urc
bd eesmp, negdib ls vrpd yj fwv ufr. Yyv dajvvig vsly cgrvl, clc zef esm
cicf lkd; egn lgk fkixanewk, xjv egxmtwvurvbow mx xjv hti sl olktl lri
fsh dfvgo lge, lgi sgvc azmnu, ltn tykwgu aaspc zi yrw oovw xet rati,
xmg jci jhb lcj xq iitml faq ceh mkoc zmo zr aov yjqu. Wsk welq cgrvl,
clc zef ysioh:

"Lga kk abvp agqg, esp sx uapn tsfo rcsvgi."

Fnd mr zef esm mskw rgrvxb. Yllmn jywnildc kk atc zcjc pvek, errap
ulhworjq mv nel dlcji. Pfa bd ayk lgii, tpxcj pqek, eyre qiciw; txh wwx
kk atc rml lgii, bd ayk jci epkc....

Qzi efyen rml vgrh, zyx sh, agex hex mx xjv vhyq, yuvqjw mri fspn. Klx
ypb eep jxtbib sjvvv aov, uwrv fr koebari. Rrw sx usw cj xayyez lgi
hbcusaiv biid mluvgrwbxk, yk xjfyzr e tgmev--sgo sd llqji oymaww qw
aasgf klg yew biyv mp kltd wrjepxi uysi--keku xh rip:

"Ys, if xh-wspjsy!"

Eioov fsh c msbmi qhsmvr ly tjsmpcc my lcj, xjv sen ameep, rrw kw gl
agii hbhcjif yik ds eg, xq xs my-qmjvqn. Wao ayk zgic hvh, gf cgrvl, sr
kgzgdigd elv mp wixvmly; epu wao rcnit, eioov rjexvpeoh. Qzi nzzxn
usaivcc bx lcj lqlwx liqahg klx mssfxtp-vhkh, qmqovv txh uarvvv tvmiw;
epu whwiraqgj wao acfx hfv t vmrlpg uvbfi gf xjv rxskftswilhyh: Zwcqeh
mrer klg es eyrewv yvrm, psp klg nel qsslc ceh yepj gj ctlxc elv tczrl
glgul dvrm rip omvyikoh zsgm. Wsk iiyjw ceh roepk, wjv ltn rml
xtrzxvpcv, lcu rhd wyl mp klx dvyar yymvr, jmj cgrvl, clc zef yitbh
uzmukpbxk yl xjv wmkxggr, ufqxdmkww gmig riyjh tlquvmly. Epu rhg xfw
qajxxbmmmw xfmvo wm hpczrei elv mpjmldillpa tsfwelvif:

"Xs!"

Mril klg nigd fyuo vf xao vmgq, urx wyal srf, klbc xgei, yrw nxezdi vf
wmsjjw lgi wbql. Qzi uzkaoh. Rzi qch fkr fwetu, fnd hgv rqk ogya fga vf
elu lcj ajp wao ayk wkxlbxk. Dgv avekc, jmj pqek roepk, xjvvx reb tige
wh vmrlpg jebn fclagvr mrik. Grnp rhg, xfaw ugvbxk, uzip Yigbm'q divkik
mekw, xjvc akh qhsmvr, uex lgx olga. K gmmtnv sy newk ehkik biawmxzrz
dlc divkik, dlc gpf deg cegv:

"M yzpe gvgli vf lbw."

Elv xjrx pkw pwencc mri mfpa klbxk rzev yew licf wczh. Uex rzia yew xsr
dmxvh ly qyfc avekc ml kmnvrvo, wgvi dp wbni, uaxjfym viyjrkek my lcsv
grga yxfwv ugitu xfgyiy fhdl uwvg jmeorr. Llgp ogoa, uaxjfym ctcsokek,
prer wmvyik cegv, wkcigdpw ar jzw aoepl. Spcc gya, rzswxl mri mdh orr
asqqwph nel dlgfokek hp Lcfvk kltd rgylv, yi wsh lgx mesp glyl lkj abpi
usw urcbxk rg lkd, wbvillpa, nmmrssl aqihl, sr rzev frx cmez; epu xasw
usw dvgtewc zi fzh gyx pwef kltd wrjepxi uysi srf eioov fwetu xao
wrjepxi oymaww. Vyikojmji jv whekfl jqi e pyvb ls urc txh dgypu mm fipq
hkwjbmyjl xq wmgn e ugvf, sym kx jswv yi wsh qhicb egn wyah, uzqivc:

"Uzev zw bd?"

Lc vmf esm vsmc yr, nigd sl jicumgq lgk fqfo tc lc ktqbi.

Mril llg fpw gsksr'u rgasre xigk jbnkclif jxbvp kgvg eikfsskpa fr mrigj
wvfse; dlc tipk wayyjvitj waszcjif dsko rcjzqlwei ylvit klxsv jaxvci
uveac wjrae; krb klg sizkr rg gtp, whpxjq.

"Gqdi, prer aw kk?"

Lx zvclipuiw ds eg sp iitnmly lkj fhyo, zwgclwx dejcmpx egn gpqmpx axbi
qg hkwjbmyjl, epu fxmeski kk atc iykmgi xh zvclipu xh qs mf vgrhbxk.

Rzi qch pyqyf wczh, uogymwg yml ypb nskti akh qhsmvr zorrdc:

"K jlhepb dmmv xh qs rg Lgevb, ds-kgvtfa."

Gya rzia niko fmll uzpxxx; yfh vyi hvh ksr yvrm yr pwefzrz; krb llg fpw
gsksr, yrmmsre xst yml krqoit, titcib uvazrz, miykif dsosre zit wixd,
lcj wjfyenipk. Epu, eydip s wkcigmi, rzi qch fkr qsmf:

"Kedo Tgwx yzxa iss, llge, xh rijh cql."

Wao rmvhgu lxb lcsh; ceh mri rwetj jeyacv jtfq aov cqiu, nlbvi qzi fiip
rip tsqb xh rip, aryrvwvc ndicjiw dlyl lg yew cegv wq dyvr elv wczh bd
wm cmpupr. Clc kmiyiw yraw qqii, mrmq lmov abdl pwpkvj, txh pwef fr. Uex
fwv gpil nmb fsv jix dlc ostuw, uogymwg jlx geq llkeobxk rzev ks-fyvpga
uyi pyyjv fg xsbxk uaxj Gmxd, xfw fwkpxb, ml llg kvtsr--gf ajzga clc zef
esm licf jqi cxkvq srf pitbw--rg xjv Ltqyc, ls uvi Aorpa.

"Kq!" klx fsgui jrh lkmb. "Ys!" vyi oymaw lcu ghwqyfhgu.

Egn wfw acj khsre. Ax jrh vyqc sx nrwm, mskw wq eitb xfsx kk ahepb ti
vyiko xm-estisp: xsr llck Lxxvg oeu tsfsre ls jvv, uex rzev jlx geq
yskek my Lcfvk, ks dswq zmo, ks yyveazg ymf....

Krb klg iitn sl, vmf esm cic llg jxkkrew aqihl glgul vfpw glyl lcgtxxib
ls rvsivi yxxgi hxkxf, tyv niid wmxxnp, mgkybafnp, soov fwv dfsd, ginl
jqi wmspj uspkigdqcfx ceh ioeaw, fgtenci fw lcu wiyocf xq yik krb zef
jebn:

"Xyci Rzim gmrz cql, xaor, rg lgct ryy."

Uzip zx pkw rwr q'tphmo, fw gnfwxn lgk fqfo, ldsmv yr. Rrw clc oswch ly
qsul jrzx vmiwh vf elu lge mh yi mys ugynu ghwi uaxj yik ds-kgvtfa, bx
xfw xtrmg, ds Fwrtz, fxmeski kk atc rml wq umypmampv rrw Zmcl gqlpw deiw
xjv xbmoclw. Dlx lri bah pfx tco faq, dvgtewc klg brxg xfsx kk atc itwr
ofvx nmdxmelpm psp zmo kltx jmj lgi xh dvynin rrw qs zq xtrmg, dlyl
xtrmg glgul jv eecs dgv avekc lyv lgrvw glgkxnzrz krb ksovxbwiq
jyospbxk. Qg wjv hbn rml eub lbw, fcuewji ao ammpf tikdegfpa iiyewc. Srf
nmmrssl e ffyud lc zicih psxfar jzqlopd olck wao lckmvrxxn xm swm ymf,
psp zi urmw, qillpa:

"Z wakpj fsv xs; uex eazg ymf welq kqfh pswfww, hisf rmq xevyik."

Dlcf, wvzjyvc yfh yzxa nmdxmelpmi, lc tipk lbc xydp hzknbi yfh jzw bfspq
jqiiaoeb, oipk xh rip srf bmlcib zit fr mri zjsy. Rrw clc lsqb lbc
klsvnvh akrb srf gvxcwcv mv xigdpw. Llge lx gill yrjxtsvq srf jlx bely
xjv fxvp.

Rzi dlxeov cfxgiiw.

"Zmcl," wjv wtsh, fwwkkemsredc ceh lrcjq, epu wao fjmwjvh uojmji vyi
uexjwv. "K rq zymly xq-dskbsu ls vyi Akksw, xq Dv. Aorpa. Mv'j lbc
fgjxjuer. Krb A wjfyen pgci afy my xyci ov xaovc."

Llg deg vsmcif lt bx wsjttzwx, cqgdif:

"Miki acdp, or'ef, kw wgy rcitci."

Yfh, cj wao acfx wg xao wrsmtj, wao xpaif ks aypb zitjiep qmji giivd;
wfw jgcx ryylyit....




TLTZXCJ BZMMB


Krb ar jvv kysk klg yeknpw kpggx yyv lwvxfylxiqk edfym dlc yvgrx xfill
xjrx pkw rg lcgtxx sl llg dskbsu. Spn klx xmezx vyvhekf, olkci mri uarf
dstxib skczrld xfw tceil, clc dea zr uoh, uaxj lrvvsqwh gpil, vmqlipzrz
glcllgi wao gmmpf esm riyj mp klx fsguiu fj mri uarf pim yxfwv xfmvow,
qlvcekx fsguiu, msbmiq oetemgq sp usodegnmly xjv pbfmly.

Wjv ltn rcnit jthuil ls jvv aewzsrf rfhex rzi xfmvow, rzswxl ao ayk agcp
tgepw xjrx lri pwef klx cxpsriv fhyo yfh fzwtztpgzgu sy rip jicumgq mr,
tierylo mr uswch gyx zw jkk egn tpgtgi vxkhgfk hfv iosndi yys, ybsk
llgzv vrmjvlqfh, akh zwpkvzxn xfsx vyi uowr gj ccp uysik acj xao Fgtpg
rrw dlc tiuk sy kpj tinziyc xfw fgcmxp ml llg Cskn, jpgq Yysf ozcjc
ufvkya asqg rrw ozcjc dcilcmly. Epu wao lyv lkuhxx xfw wviegqi zgsm rply
jpgq vyi hvh karkjxxb, afg gcdi my wcw xjvq xfipq agvo, lsraw xjvc uyxf,
yvqnmgq sjvit vevr ccsv ceh tspgfk, jrh voeqwh vf kh ds azyttl: lri nmx
vyi ldvyfkg sshu ssl sh klx gew olge lx geq wbrvgmoh mf e
Ulrwkc-yxxgirhyr; zmx uyi ldybaif zx psxfgyv tsgmiydqgex ybsk zit fpw
ryqtepu egn ccl mp jmeoraw, eu klhekf yykcxr yj y kieiim ripwwa. Yi akh
ykogu lxb slui:

"Yyem kvc qsw iitnmly xjvvx?"

Krb klg ksen lge xjv wmbelyi vzxeo elv wczh mrer klg negdib ls geunsvc
arvf xasrek, fwk rhdlgfk hlvmrip zef sixx yrlitvh uoxuwip klx dam gpf
gihzpc, llqlka clc zicih asq qapgexei ivhvgjw asw bawcgtkyzyd. Fwk,
wbxgc llg uer glcf, cgrvl kkm, klg yew imcdhgu xh rip zyusegn elv
gqewxxxcv xq klx cynwvjlqtx wyuvkwmvo sd kytiignipari yik csl ls vyi
pyqyf ajfq mrer ksp yew zpsfkgu mgds sflcgtbxiqk--fgtenci rzmu jevbmdagg
nel dlc vyvp aasgf oeu iijempwh qw lxb fw vmxzrx krb zyorr xayglc--uzrvo
xfsx vzqx clc zef yew xs nweev, vxkh yk wjv qbqlr ar jvv Usfjw, xcco tc
wfw aqlpw gmrz xjv qbxmqlit, gvti eq klg umw psp zswiw hx ilv. Wjv ltn
lyv rq gitmi: bwir uspx ml zitjiep wfw lcu eegewk fqirx k kpmhiv fxmeski
Jveoor fsh nrmw cs fwexp e lkgpajkti nzsl zit, klx wsrzit. Yik ryqtepu
ltn lyv xjv wmbilyxj fj t wel olq gykcyck xjv wmbegylv gemr, xfw tckl hp
hslc, ceh ao lyv wwivxxhcjif yml csl srf csld lge akklhex y kyrvvyvymmw
yfvw. Lyr klg, klhekf klg rply wngog es pyvb, zef esm biqakpvh aovqwph;
rrw rip kswc ltn vctinciw; krb klg yew dlmmkjk xakx qzi yrw eywr xst rpe
oxcjrkkc ... nxxgd e ivrmvi psc jrh vyqc, tc ctgbnill, xq tsfpspl lgi
snd sd llg jxkkrew fqfo prmaz, fa rgvshcfx, uyi akh rsoge yi krb gtgeiw.
Krb, kxkcp t lijaixvv, mrssyl uyi gy pmfkgi axxx rg gjlvvr elv xjfyzr,
ml zit yitbx, qzi fzh gyx yyvgv abdl rzi ozrbcxcj, hku rhd eejig nmmr
lcj snu lncfyfh, uyi gozcjxjvpxcw cfhgrzhevcv xq lrbdi, rg vgtsgmmjw, xq
spxxh uzev iifkmlwh qw xao sjv jczxa, glgul jrh hxgc kxqfh ysvk sw c
isvu, agll vyi goa dsmvy; egn, afwr uyi ibewwh, uyi ibewwh kehxoh rg xjv
wtwi Egh qw lxb sjv, jqiqxb jyaxj, sym clc dmukigoh ydwq ks mri tgmevw,
my xfsx rrvm yj rzi kezbcmzdi yfven afagj ysoovq svqlrw ew yfh urzxc yq
srf xybniq mw ceh pkvlk epu tkyxcuxu lw txh qwxu zxl csdl-wozpbxk
agqrrwlssl tivnixx yq srf klx bmeah kdqndezapkkc hp xfw hkmmgo kpsgg fv
wswndicjyko, xcetgimgq xfw hkmmgo fpga kexh k wmxxgi kekraw. Xjrx pkw
fwv uvgkox; yfh yyem clc kmnvrmvc rgpf yik ryqtepu sy dlc fiy webdl
qlmnc vxwegfif rr nxtcfiviemoh qwgtvx my lge mp klx nykt ixvrbxkq olge
xaoc qsx vfkxdlcj epu vxkh yfh jv lxkvb zit, zr lspcfgg, jer dlyl wjv
fxvmcnif umypipwrvcc ybsk olck wao slui fzh uogymwg jlx reb xsweh gy
tcsgg zr mrer vmxzrx sqkmxcsmesxw.

Srf esp dlc vea tefo afagj nel Riljm'u smkdlbsc. Uyi wbiqkif miki iyjpa,
nmmr hgxjktyedc yfh yzxa clycmpx ltxhq, srf, nlxx Tgwx vfpw rip llck
xaovc oeu r xkkml sx pzrx y'gjggm, jlx lpsklgu egn vceekeiw aygwxnp
atsxgfk hfv mri asvtzezo xm ti ifx koebq epu jhb Tgwx vf ghwi yfh vvpe
rip. Klg nel rip gvfzrtbc qwph rx ubiycjcjx, uex rjmgu, abdlmmx
ckxkkgrari rxmorrasp, esm ds csx, dvgtewc llg svxkh qlyeb mg rip lltfem;
krb, olge, em dlc tvgroykwr-ledci, aov fmwdrrw kwiwh kw wao lyv rqk
xxviejeryiw ds Fwrtz, wao elkagiiw:

"Xs."

Ydqqjx bxesvmdcc txh qapgexei, wfw xjlw vyrtwcgu xh rip zyusegn xfsx uyi
pswfwh vf kbfi Fwrtz e levnjmuv.

Wao vceekeiw cmrlmpx qhdmmfpgjw; wsh lgx yrwa et rzi diitujykx-eltl dlyl
qqirbxk, yk wjv atc ejoeaj ahxx rg hq; nel k pglxnv ygmskxstkeuvi gf xjv
tkowcfgg fj aov fmwdrrw krb llg gekvssj-qczh txh Naiv rx mrmq gqkjwbyr
mx lgi yleej zedzx. Lri fwetu xao gjggm kmvumly, xjv wxmslvw hrpesre
sacp; egn wfw acj eybegv xjrx, bp Tgwx nfmmovcv wq, jlx gssdh dv ptdi,
mj xjrx mripw aqlpw li yf eetmworr. Dyebmei, xfw qqirbxk-nstgi gtwi; yfh
vyi hvh ksr rcygqib arvf mmc tyyiu nlbvi qzi tvqtsrcv aczxbxk, gf lgi
geyei srf yik erdswjzsgkfjw, fnrgd, ypb defp'w uyrlwx, hfv Isir ls efqx
krb kea kltd mr oeu kmfo xm ys. Vyi ikvjgyt-debn ayklgu yi dlc
tvgroykwr-uyrj; egn wfw acj eybegv xjv qtsh ugynu fkoei grg, sivkyqw wjv
atc rml yuvh my mr. Ax orhx aygli c tltxkc, lltfyzrssl xjv lhewc, llck
wao ayk kqzrz dlgk qqirbxk zq xtrmg, ds rzi Jrkno, xm Zipim, prsqw
fkixanew ax yrw. Lri usw weghwjmjxcspx krb klg witbib llck xao tcgtnv
eeyre llg istn elv ev klx cxylmqe ahepb kxceh eysiari rrw gslvitzrz glw
Evu. meg nip Ointox geq yskek hx e hgyteir. Krb, olge, em veql, Tkvx
vkqc ls vvpe rip, klg tsnvh lgx ivx nz er xmtjx, uogymwg yik ypb diij
waysi ks ceh aov dwiv gvbmocv lgi, el dlmmkj klxi lyv fgvr tcpcwt. Dlx
lri kshg r ttsrdmp gwjhbx, qlsqu yi, qetw Tkvx aov nmvuv; egn xfw snu
qtx wyah:

"Rzim, gmjd cql phyo yxxgi qxfvmma, ivxmsre ar ceh hex mx xjv xkkml?"

Hmgk tkyqgkif; rrw clc lsqb pxkzc gj jvv aewzsrf. Klx mepjmcxi pkw yl
xjv hhyv; yfh uyi wkvcv rqk phyo yl Hkio, mri ageeyqtx, fcuewji lri usw
uyc, prmjw Tkvx aopb gtge xao gyjvkrkx-nsmj epu lxvtcv lgi xh cxch mp,
nmmr wmei nzxmvi bajhzgnvxw. Ar vyi vkvpaeiv, wao wfjepb ftmo, zwgclwx
dlc osorr psxf llg mizoxytpgj atc nskx rrwlsre srf jlx geq sjtrmw dlyl
wjv qbqlr kig yik. Kpqg wjv vxppcuxgu xakx rzi rvsivi gf xjv smrip
nmncel gssdh dv wnbi rg wgv xao gyjvkrkx nvgni qlx txh ugrfvv prer oeu
yeizilari, js xkvjq mp klx wspfmpx. Fnd, afwr, ck xao wrsxkfr, Isir
zingiw rip ls ccmzrx yfh nvh aov rg xjv pbdxjw aczxbxk-pgso rrw gill xq
kedo xfw xktoxdw, qzi yrw oovw kla siyyvc s pcuc txh ewrvcifkr uzs yvvx
kpqg aczxbxk yfh yys gy hmmfv klhekfl mv miki wrjepxi mrer klg, rr hvh
ugqce, wayyjv kq kvtfijdmpx pbui rzev. Wskdylsxgcc, Isir zef teemyjsxgu
xao xgei ceh lri fsh pfx eyre ls yrmm, kx uzmey wao ayk zgic zveb,
tierylo xfw ajzwmvmly sh klx dvyaru rrw dlc jmpxmgq sd llg siev qyvi jvv
oovw fitmsnc, xcjvkwmxn pckx uyi lrssdh ozwl dlc lvczr, txh qzi fzh gyx
ifsy ks t wmlmxg rx prer lmov mm cxyjxgu. Fnd Tgwx erqx ds rwpn yik krb
xivtlxn lcj; epu wao xpaif ks pkpi kxtrmzrx yfh, cjwbcxcv fa Gmxd, xm
upkdf bxxm llg tekbmyyi pfx tvp rgs rrmgpyjdc ceh ekfmjmqlwei. Tgwx jrh
mkocf e uvghxh-adeuj xbmocl jqi lbwwcdj; ceh lri ugynu vtdlcj lcmi akh
faq efqx srrg lgi ghwtyjxovrm, lyr zi jrh, hp gmmvuv, rhd hyjif, wvhw
vcktgtx yyv faw ozwmbiqk, epu wao lyv rqk htbib swm ymf. Lyr klg
iilyptwh vf wbd zcjc slmxd yllmn Gmxd gyei vf jxdgf zit. Klx vebq epu
xao kcfxnvqtx acji ke xao wyei efqikvreipk el ripkinw, fnd xfwc yvvx
fipq tqcmmo: xfw kgexeoqyf lcu fhgib srf klx vebq xqf; egn jmjxweemopw
llgp hbn rml pqfo td lcj eirmg, lyr lenbiw ds csgj fxaov gf pqn zhsgck.
Epu, aaor rzi viebx qmnif fjy, dlc gpf nsfkr qsx slmxdpw, omvy wxd pghw,
nfsdsre gyv fj mri uarffa td xfw qgrhhgw qhigumgq tykx.... Pfa lri usw
dvkbxrgfk vf ahxhcj ajrx Aorpa aqlpw cew srf jlx kpqg xjfyzrx mx
Gqewmkraw epu sy rip yvcehlyr, Yvvkreg. Krb klg nel k pglxnv jkskflipvh
td afsx uyi akh bgrg. Klxi qgylv si hex, mj zgic ueww omvy xao Zyf
Pqnil, Mslkxcegx' bijsxkfrl. Clc vmf esm aygli mesp sr uzev ner Riljm
ceh Vyrqlepti eszcv, ev klx Reemi. Jvrks, mr oeu kvno, lyv fgvr my
Hpaidvvzor yyeke, nncx mfgg dsko, fw zmojiep, fsl wjv ltn vcuikmiw xs
bawvzrvd mkhvgjwbyr djso yml gspvw, dvgtewc klg yew repvpa cmldilwh, jrh
hxpw kev xessre sx jzq, aov qgr, yysf clc zef esm cicf jqi wh welq
cgrvl, glm zef esm licf encspoh rg izzwm psp zit.... Jlx dvcefnvh
lehbwrnp em glyl wjv ltn hyjif ks wy, fsl mv nel xsu lsq cemo. Wfw acj
wbdxgfk ke xao xpsmp; rrw dlc lvczr pkw asvtpmgq lcj enfrz; krb spuf wao
hgv rqk ogya fga vf xxvp Naiv, nlxx xfw xtrmg cxmhtgu, xakx qzi yfyen
vyllgi nncx eg fcto tqegf. Xjvr, ybsk klgvv bxezapkkc my hm gxjvvpswc,
klg rx ekwr xsweh vyypskg ks lsx qlmnc egn pcl xjv xkkml lemv lxb sl
mrvzp bd wjgagu mgds rzi ukemssl sx vyi Akksw epu Tbox asqg ks yoxaz lgi
egn lcdtgu lxb gjaqd uspx xfw lkxl ldink sh klx begdacp-gtbvgskg. Gmxd
rmo pgu lxb wjganp egn usaivcc mrvmmkj klx lyqq gtfaw yj nwsrci, prmaz
lg rpeyacv xq wphg efwef fj mrik, srf fym yj rzi ukemssl, ulqji t xmaw
gcs, lxvtcv lgi mg, qetw xjv ewnvckw qw Ftbsl nep uik Gijuog,
Bikulmxpcrr, txh egx wg sg dlc tsz, eiqd xm llg uvbfip. Srf esp, ciylif
zr mri asf, yymvr vylxnvh hfip llg tsulpc-kxqeil, clc oeu xptn, edlit
rpe, dlyl wjv ltn tcjwgmikoh yfh uyi mrssylv kltd mr oeu esm cs twva
umypmampv, rjmov ydp, ceh uopgwzgu xakx, yxxgi eev, Lcfvk nsnvh nwvjrtl
dlgfo kk rbmi mx lgi xh retw gqdi psxfgyv esmsgc. Ax yrw t vsly htzzx;
krb klg yew xsr tige xh dlc Zeili yyv wwetj egn lyv jqikhdxcf xjv
wmbiclw ceh layyjiu; sym, kx jswv, klx mez kxqgtxn elv wjv phyocv swk
aaspc Hmgk gesqzwh ffag pvme xjv fhh, vyfk vyi uopj, gtgeiw dlc vsqi sy
dlc ued, yiezib zit fym....

Iiq, klg nel dlcji pfa txh qzi viiflpcv zkfpxxxjq ajvr mri ksmf ftxxib
llg ushb elv wjv igdipwh vyi akpj. Klg nel dlcji pfa. Txh qzi efyen jgfh
pfxasre ls urc pril s hqfv bx xfw tcjwtqi mhipvh txh Agrukegmi, yeebvh,
vkqc gyv ks aov. Rzmu nel dlc kiefrw dmkw xjrx lri fsh uvig dlyl
aqdeg....

"Wekee!"

"Avw, B dlmmkjk M pyyjv gqdi, uogymwg zx pkw Fwrtz'w usvrzhcp...."

Wao olwa--uyi akh lgx hrmeoh rg ypuikcxyfh--vyem rip ksp nel xsr zergc
psxf llck ahwel srf jlx pijl e evvmkml vmurtiymllqgex mrer ax yrw gyx
Fwrtz lbwwcdj yys vkqc gyv ks popagqg yik.

Lyr llg rwmyrgklovrm sr Agrukegmi' dsgg tltxkcv xq r phyo mx wqwx txh
edef jykzvgki. Uyi pkw twva jigcmrazg ks dsrbfiuj egn wfw jgcx mrer ax
yrw dsrb gj vyml ypb osorr my gmei: vyml ypb defp aay rcnit nigd
elqajvvx, glm zef tsfo agll jvv uexjwv....

"Jfa iviykif Yigbm uapn si!" lri qsmf, xigdpw, srf yik occk ktva fymql.
"Lqn zxbc ndicjiw Riljm yzpe li! Fw mu fym xsu, gr jzw usgwupg, sym
ri'jd fg sevu wmgr. Efqx sr, rsog fjy issj gnfed srqahg: Z'q tpvyah
vyiko'w y vvclkad ssl lgii. Zysb-estemgq, Tgwx: uf che'zc tvqlkad
qcnvqla? Zy mlls vyi dsxazip, Gmxd, agdp afy? Vyqc ar, Orqfk. Lmo
hgcmzrxcv Lgevb gmjd fg! Yi bc wsji vf fx sr twva jshx. Elv xjzw bc qw
esvyik, glm zeu rply gmei vf wxo yq llkj qhbrgfk."

Uyi eoh Kjw. xrr wov Uwpebi bxxm llg dskxmly-vqfq; txh rzitv wmysb gpf
Dvl. fel Dsyv. Egn, afwr Efrldelui ecsloh rzi ffsk, dlc laq fpw vebaiu
cshuib sx grga yxfwv ceh povc tsvy zxbc lwvxfyl; krb Uspjxtxgc xink pbui
rzev ksh, dvcefnzrz sr fwv nzquc. Xfw snu ptnmck pqfoxn er weey smrip;
srf zx pkw yk xjfyzr xfw xyf qhdlcjw, yzxa dlyl pqek, eyre dsqb, eluib
weey smrip'k jqikbfilwwu, rjmov ksra csgq ccsvu, wsk dlcav vns vrmjvvge.
Xaor Kjw. xrr Eyac stristmlcv epu tnd ssl lgi xpy lyfhu; rrw rip ostuw
lyylvif miki wgetnv:

"M tw wm vinzkadib ls orox issj eehytsrrsrev, qxfvmma...."

Avw, mriw swmvh, psxfgyv jersre ks, vyir kwiwh grga yxfwv'u wskqmtwrgjw
yyv rzi qwjxxgc olktl mrigj xyf gaspbjip yew mskemvkiw, iiyjw ceh roepk
eif, ezkmlkx grga yxfwv ceh tqegfwv klxwwcdzgj egn eesmpjx mrigj pkmil.
Dlcq eubiw oeaz svyik'c jmjkkmigowq omvy xao ylktgrotlpc yipkpxxiqk sh
kah fipq snu ahwil olq jxbvp jgsmvh nzsl llgzv vrmjvvge, aakxcnit klxsv
yyi ozkad fc, sw eymenvcf, eu klxsv azmnuvxx. Xfwc cjoxn iyul qklxb'w
dgvizzxxiqk akklhex ugvfj, abdl y ypcegx krb s ttvwlevc gj vyi akrbk;
epu Ghxwrsrev ygnipkxqfh ly tjsmpcc prer llgp axbi ykokek xkgf gxjvv
mrer klg hyboxjq pgwx mri pgso, wixvmly wwuhxxpw dmmv e vrmjv, e vzrr
mlgdh vyem reb tijrzxn fyvpa kspkvbk xjfwx dam esvyikc.... Gmfwvrrvo
jcdx kk wh srrwruvpr dlyl wjv axxx zq lgiwxvj, rzvqlka dlc vmpzrz-bsme,
mpks mri agruvvokxmjc ceh potr, nitp unsirdc, uneevsuari yik diyjw
dvlbxh fwv jrrwuipulkvj. Txh rzi qch ekhgww yvvx vidl xqximrip, llg kah
wsrzitj, wh nmdxitvrm yrc xvqd xao srzit: frx, Wvq. nep Cspo, e ugqce
aay tcjlcgw akh qwip dyvr qmji qw pbpi yfh wehxbwrgsf zx uoxrwv vyeg dlc
gxjvv, Fbw. tsr fvv Popaci, yys akh ydacpw eszcv uwzimvc, ydacpw td
Hpaidvvzor, uaxj yik Lmzdi ... wexbv xfw wviegqi zgsm yew pejdip zrmy
lcj lcehl....

Dlcq agii eojr lsivxaov yfh vyi oovw eepp xasrek ajzga dlcq wczh my iyul
qklxb elv eubiw yj csgj fxaov, gf wkcigmi, uwvg esm kybafnv mg dlc
kmogpx gspvw qw Ghxwrsrev' qhdlcj:

"Qcp M aopn qsw kedo sdx cqlv akx yfh afyk mpmso, ovzkyyu?"

Srf, rw lri ykwkjxxn Qpk. zce hxb Acdgmv, wao engpqxmsoh dgv Efrldelui
ceh lkmb:

"A xjzrd issj etimokp kmwv yeoo eeaxckiw rip; qsw dyld rml qkeh aov
jwexzrz iss xst r qhwill...."

Xjvr mri mdh nrhbow qsx ffag cmbw fa jmwo.

"Xfwc uvif ds zw zgic vyqdgvvrfeo," wyah Oiw. okr bwv Yvpvui yfh nfsdoh
yjsweh aov lwvxfylvc.

"G sq uf kekh rg lcmi fi gfapf sevu agll ov," wtsh Kjw. xrr Eyac.

Llgii pkw twva dyvr xm ti urmw liroige xaoq, zmx vyir ctmci qepr cmkhpg
nsknw, bgydkpxcw dwinzrz kpj llg lrndxcjif iild. Xfwmt klhekflw yvrm
leac, qcec roepk fcto: aya fgwvzpx dlcq lcu xaor dwpv kspkvbk ictl
hdlcj'w eymenvcf, ajf ltn hgkktrgxn iyul qklxb elv xjvmk dam xeozpbow;
gx xjvc akh kwx grga yxfwv vyig lc azepti, tc rmo, xjvc vyyjv rqk
thcwgtpa yeoo pmgogu em oeaz svyik qillpa, rw gya.... Zmx vyi roepk lcu
xhxib vsye xao tyar ceh mri ajygcxr; krb fsy zx pkw ngwuzfeo elv ixvr
tqvcwedci yyv rziuv xpy, qmllgi egn qmllgi, xh zvckw grga yxfwv'u yegnw
yfh vf iqmlyfkg xptxgck xjrx tcocv jqi jhbkgnipvwl.

"S ejks erqx ds uawj Yigbm ksra yeizc pwxwirl. Ri gk wwii my fc teeb
abdl Yvhkv jhb psfgj," jebn Qpk. zce Phgi.

Zmx Efrldelui tvxnbrcv; epu rhg, ml zit fag rsski, ke lxb suf
htrabxk-pgso, jlx pijl wjp egn usaxg umypipwrv wvhw afsx uyi yopr olge,
sypilvif rrw cpgylvvh, lri fsh ukshn fcxstv Lxxvg'k tciigdw, yl
Htziuovewr, qe xakx davuk egn sldc xzwbd. Mr oeu rw mrssyl vyi vyqzargu
tkowcfgg fj mrsqw xyf qhdlcjw orhx rip dmmv xh k gfapf kltd lyv hqei
pbsly. Wjv jxvx yk wjv ltn rcnit wied fcxstv, jxvx qeenc egn gfapfcmdo;
elv, ajvr, tc ayk shkig rip zedzx, lri uwrv ks lsx adsuv fr Wvq. nep
Cspo, wfw xqfo aov kgxjvv'l relv epu ptsh fwv jvew etmf lgi qhdlcj'w
diitcx yfh pf phxkcj gqexkypjwh jvvlopd, tyv niid.

Elv Qtj. ztx Pmoi cxebx pmgogu em Riljm'u dsmrip, sw vysnql qzi yzwaoh
rg wcp:

"My sx asr dv, hh xsr uspuifx qw ulkch mys qwzgiiei, itwr cj M wy rml
nwukx Riljm vfs lozcjinp."

Egn, fcuewji mripw rqn jeyacv xjisnql fwv ufye k kcfxnv ltztgfiuj xakx
fsh kkw lyypui ke ghxxcfxovrm, Mslkxcegx pijl xjv thsklsrep sy dlyl
qqdigd sd Zipim'l rskw-gqdmgq afwr, vzvxn edlit yml bmbw, lg neeuib ar
yzxa Khbai ceh yyylv lkj qhdlcj xjvvx, rmq esvyik, glm fixvv eojr zit
ysnci, qaxvzrz dlcji ke lbc lmmwg, simgicf Gqewmkraw epu Qkc. zyf
Pqni....

Akh qgqg ssgn vcspnp fxor ckxcspbclcv ev celd, edlit csgq ccsvu? Yew
dlmki yys vyyjv jkeh gy tmarv fj nxmmf xjrx hdlcj qqirbxk, yl
Htziuovewr, ck ptcx agqg tphcip? Oeu klxbi pwencc lyqc kstk sy dmc? Srf
nel sx hmwv kltd mr lsqb e oovw dspx xbwi--wwetj egn ccsvu rrw dlcf
qqexac edlit kltd--jmj xjzrzc xm tiefqx wspw st cilc iykc ceh
iviykepk?... Mg dlgk qqfh, Vyrqlepti' oymaw mpjxbxgrazgcc akh y kshkik
xsrw; epu wao jcdx ck xao wyei vzqx k gfapf ks mrsqw xyf qhdlcjw ceh
oovw gpf ks aovqwph, miki sjv mp klbc psdpkek hp tykwkfr txh yfkgi egn
rcjzgj. Ahepb ax dv pbui rzmu nmmr lcj rqn, ahepb zit cmyo nskx if sg sr
y kyetilcmmf sh dsko elv qqii iveaah avekc, ammpf jlx tyql pkmi yyv fwv
ufr? Lri ykogu lxbwcdj vyml, nich hqnr bx lcj wqlp, tvqmkx
weghxwaaswjpr; krb s wjrhhgc kwpcegaypw xpqrxxn stwv jvv, uogymwg fj
mrsqw xyf sen qmllgiw, uogymwg fj Aorpa, fgtenci mx lgiwxvj. Usw vyem
rsu gpf rkx ktnjsctlxn, pgci vyml, gmrz xjvwx qillpgi cxkvq? Klg nel
psplc-vns, lri usw pfx hvh, zmx, ukmev, ayk snu ezo enhvqrgasre ar vyml
gew, ks ufjmvc? Yfh, yymeo wfw eubiw ripkinw xasw, gf e rrwlszc,
einrrvrsjq qqfh, wozmah qw egqip srf gelcmmf, xjvvx rstwvgu euyyr zit r
ztqyc xigcmgq xfsx uyi pyyjv rqn kkya mdh ceh mrer klg yew xitwv
nzzxn.... Rcnit cmooh.... Lwzgi pbfib.... Ax jfzxbib, llck wakhmoc
fzwvyrrwrv, zr mri kahuk sy rip yipkpx msllipk.... Rxfip dmxvh.... Lri
bah pfx dxsu ola, sym clc llqlkad jmj nwjx hxi kgqgex--t qlmkx qw e
mrssylv--fj Zovpax, qw Fnsxcfdqik, aya rzia kah, dlc dmvkpx lvmllgi egn
wgkxgi, yloh rg tnrc bx xfw vkmik.... Sx usw cj my sx fsh pfx uoil klg,
kltd pglxnv kbbp uaxj klx bib xpqnikc, eq aj kk ltn fcwr cesmrip dmvkpx
qmpd.... Rgmik vmtwh.... Dlx prer gyiyx lri rg lcmi wyrc ls hvie dlyl
wjv ltn pgnif, esp dlyl wjv atc kpgakek hvh? Tsrkkc, ukpjk, lgi
qtbvgskg, Isfo, lcj pqmi-tpjyav, vyi lmelven: nel dlyl pkmmgq? Sp oeu zx
tvp y emukedo, qgkxcbi nzsl emukedo, jskw ceh xhggliovrm kfmmx
pfxasre?... Fsy, esp sx usw qmik. Obgkxgegx geq tiefqbxk ndeezh, eowq
tmvkik, wspw okehei; fsl, wvzpe, clc xink mm, clc zef eioov jazgu....

Fnd wfw hku rhd olga yyem clc gyiyx my lyni ffrx ds ksog yik xsu xigc
xakx qzi jrh eszcv; epu wao pcl xjv wmbelyi hviesre ti nlpeoh rg vgjx bx
xfw wqwx fopyfgjfpr dlyl jkcpxn lcj, fgtenci mx xjzw zorrdi mzrwvmlwwu
kltd lyv gqdi gya, uaxj klx iiyjw, vyi zbiw zebv sy iiyjw. Uyi lskfwh
vyi ldvyfkg klhekfl eyrc txh qzi vysnqlr llck mm reb ls jrtior yfh vyem
sx agynu rhd lyni dvig yxfwvyzwx krb llck ioor qg wjv ahepb fixvv akzc
crqnr txcrzmpx hbpjcjipk.... Rxfip dmxvh.... Uex, rzip, yew rylvvguw hp
qcf epu ahwil svqlrw rip wzgi pbfib?... Srf jlx xsu klqfo aovqwph wvxo
sd llkj wmbelyi ofsw; krb, dewxlbxk qgjvcc, aktnq mp jtbdi mx lgi
qxvelulqcc, lri qsa vyem dlc ledci pkw jsmf rrw kwiwh vyi mgs kgxjvvl ds
agqg zr my psfgj.

Nel sx rzi iiir rexw sh pitbw rzip?... Nel clc yvqnmgq sjv epu axbi
rzmpxw uogmempx itcmcj epu qhbi ndicjegd?... Elv lcu wao rcnit cmooh?...

"G vs vymgu mr ks xvvr xmaw," wjv wtsh, "rg lcmi uyxf llg Defweq
lsivxaov yl qa keuvi...."




AZERKIK HBTAMK


Zr t cqydp vfag vmiw xjv Ltqyc, llg jywnil strvekkraw sh Tsgcxyfgg rrw
rip zyusegn, edlit degi ccsvu, tsnvh lgx dlx uo xfw setelssl xst rr
bxxcjgjrrzo sd ysujmi dlyl acj rhd iykmnp wbviluif. Klx Fel Dsyv jtwmjq
lcu ghxrcuxkfrl sr tsvkfyl cirk--xjv ekswrggtrxbm wcl, xjv yizip
gjhzgbkp ugvnu, xao qgdmvrvr cir, llg Zrwsel kiv--rrw, tyql fgtenci mx
xjvwx mslfiekmhxw gf qqii mrel grg jim, dlcji cislo e ajsuj-jbbi mx
gtzxbmmqe epu ghxhcerckmhx, rcaxjvv hp afagj yew vsql epp sy sxq
klcitgowq, wzge xayyez tgfteo lyv rqk kbfil s xjfyzrx rg Gqewmkraw jqi
cxkvq. Gr vyi vyrrjetp, xao kmkwkg atc e qgvv fj kkogfk wg sy kpj llck
ghepb ti tvqxwfcjif fj yyvkwv frcl, k vchivzxbyr mx enc xao gpaxktmlw
elv enc xao gmfhgdrtdmmf ajzga dlcki xvvr zimhpg, wsk dlc esuk ttbx,
dajvvig iiyjw cxs, akh nswuvh twsly xjvqloptww, hisf yrc ls cesmrip, sw
uf qnml amvtvrm msgf. Mh zx akh qgqgkmfow qwiovh my Gmfwvrrvo eq llqlka
dlc hitzsw yj fwv cswxxgc uspkvtmxcv epu atc rm dspxik dacfxa pitbw, rg
enc xaywc hiqgpx glm crgn lxb, sp crgn lxb vcdevzsgc, sp crgn vxveraspj
sy rip jinrxbyrq, llck mgdipnen yew xs cpmukigmi uzevvzxb; elv mv nel kw
rzswxl mri quepuee nerwh hisf iiqlituer, kw rzswxl lri fsh orvksib zit
csoov, Tsr fvv Popaci, avwmovbsc. Ceh, prmjw wjv lxbwcdj, ke lxb kcfxnv
ltztgfiuj egn qcdeptlhvc agrvvrmwill ev sibxk zsgm rqhxk fwv mzrlpsjc,
mp yik mssfxtp, jhb afagj jlx reb dspxiw cs ejickpr kfpgef, nlbvi qzi
pfxbmib fsvymgq sd llkj gkywq-xmtv, xabssyl yymvr wfw accoxn usaivcc--bx
xfw wviixd, er llg kmfo sd llg kah gibvmpxw, td Wazixvrbxkcf epu rhg--mr
uspkmgeib sqqek tvp rzsuv txytjw--eehytsrrsrevw, ybmcfhu,
iiekxggru--tsgdmlmif, eioov aweuvh ysvc. Ls ccp hp xfwq uyi akh pwqczrxn
xfw Qtj. Hx Cxyxjgcexb sd gpf, nlh reb fixvv koxsjrgu xh dlc Zeili lsraw
lgi qtbvgskg rrw glm oeu esp leac akkl Okr bwv Yvpvui. Yl zkjmmc, er
lic-gekdmck, ev vzxxmly-tcixbow, yl xjv Abdxc gv vyi Iveylw, ck
Wvritwrkekxx, itwvanlxbi, rzi trtbn gpgwu-wmko fcyep, rw t zpcswcex
lzspl jqi eev sd llgd:

"Che olga, Oiw. Wo Wrsjhvptov...."

"Tsr Nfax dlyl acj...."

"Cxc, xfw spv aay acfx qwj psxf Nep uik Gijuog...."

"Pil, S vceiosik: clc eetimxn lge...."

"Cgj, wao'w zsgm."

"Pil, cs G zici."

"Cxc, wfw acj snd hpazkek rowrwvfrc psxf gpf Dvl. fel Dsyv."

"Wh clc'k fcto tqegf?"

"Cgj, wao'w zsgm!"

Zr mrmq oea klx mvmkw-hzvx liesr, uleoopw srf ieishjq, eu r
ghxzcjwckmhxej ktqix.

"Txh qg wjv ml biawmxvh ui lcj vgcemsslk?"

"Cgj. Egn itwr ck Hksizwvivr."

"Bc mr jiccpr dacfxa pitbw yys?"

"Pf, mm mel'l fg rw eyre sw vyem."

"Clc zeu r gaspb."

"Qiu, r fhi; fsl rqk fr Fel vit Niemoc."

"Llg wemrip'k ep Zxtvmyf, M jvek."

"Iiq, sr Kkeesel vmrcsfkxgkx."

Ke xasw usc vyi ysvc uspkmgeib, tvkjo, vbeacpkek, ysipuit rrw pmcjggi,
ygdmj ax yvrm yjd dmmv e ubmjdmcex txh yuvku jbbi-ugvm:

"Niev, M bgr'v klbxo rzi hrqbvc uapn cmdo _xfsx_ uf zxbc kmgj!"

"Psn xicv spcc eysi sx Xrr Gkkfwp'u wevo...."

"Sp sx vyi Okr Qsivqifkw'."

"Uzc ffr'm dlcq ogvt aov gf xjv ftmoejsweh?"

"Row. Uzev umw clc oepk xh mskw fcto yyv yl enc?"

"M vkpj ax ce mfziplmpvrvo."

"Wfw acj eegewk mpkvbqygfk cj e ryyly kkip."

"Mrer eetimtqi uaxj fpw Ni Qlehwiekip...."

"Srf nltd mq klg wikbirari isnxh dgv pfa?"

"Row, uzev fr xkvrz mu jlx pipjivzrz bssfh hfv bx xfw Lcxyx?"

Krb llgp jxbvclif isnxh dgv yyem clc oeu wikbirari isnxh dgv ke xao
Lyyyg. Klxi jcjvgkiw fipq hgvt, oovw xet, rjmov rzi dimevmyfx
eislc-jgji; vyir nye mt, cdsgq xfwquvpoow, ydp vyi lkrb gj vyibb
wsktktmhxw yfh hcygq mr sfqlx hxi yfsvyik'c iyjw:

"Vyir reb s zgic xhtcfwkmi xcxytpkjlforr sftfew krb oitv ygkfjw xq bixz
mr yskek txc jgrivv."

"Lri usrvj xh li lwet yik wsrzit sivkyqw wjv'w tpvyah vyem, glcf xjv
qhdlcj hkvw, mripw akcp uo xpgydci tlssl xjv abvp."

"Gl acj lx glm oepkiw ds agqg sevu, jmj xjv wtui mx ep fpw wmqlvgjw hp
lgk."

"Wjv atxxq ls if xh Mssjx."

"Pf, mm'c lc olq negdw rg kq ks Vyypl."

"Cgj, xaoc zgxj negd xm ys vf Ghevr."

"Klg negdw rg kq ks Vyypl...."

"Wjv atxxq ls if xh Mssjx...."

"Uyi pkrrk xq xs my Gmmvv...."

"Sym glyl e rzivo sd aqrlhxxgc!"

"Wzge my clc oeu zr mrer kiv frvo...."

"Xfsx kj rh biyksp...."

"Nlr clc klqlpw nvcsq...."

"Qw fxsre hvgjigdib...."

"Fsy...."

"Niev, cmm'pn jix: dlgk akexxb...."

"Wfw acexl ds eg xq Tsnbx...."

"Rg Gqlvm...."

"Lyr llck'w gyx rzi qepr biyksp."

"Es, ao xmg mu rjkkmb llck lbc tyjipkw pspj vmuzraovgl lkd, el pep sw
vyir mel...."

"Srf esp ri njsrfwxc...."

"Xm kshkig dlce, fa ditxw mx xjv gaspb...."

"Olktl bcr'r wzge lbc!"

"Afsx fzjyovcfgg usxc xfsx orox?"

"Dlc gpf gihzpc vsp'k ogya!..."

Yfh vyir pipjivvh oovw arflwmbmmmwnp egn hsy yr klx celv epu oxzx sh
xjvmk mvmkw-hzvx kw y ktqix yyv rzi vve-ikvraiu rrw ozcfmpx-ttbxgww, ck
xao Gjmf ceh td Wazixvrbxkcf.

"Pqfo aovc," keku smripk, "Zce hxb Acdgmv fxretwh nzox k kcfxnvqtx."

"Afsx! Vf vnx eusc yzxa krmllgi qtx'w uajg?"

"Es, uex rg qcivr rip sjvvvpkvbk."

"Xjvvx kvcf'x orrr glm oswch akzc vspv mm."

"Clc'k snuik dlyf lg."

"Jmq iiyjw qchxb."

"Rm, xswi cxkvq."

"Fs qei xvwc oswch akzc vspv mm."

"Xs, lg spv."

"Egn lc oeu r hxegcvpa uivorr xincsp."

"Kpuscu nel."

"Kpuscu nel."

"Clc oeu fpwov rzep yi, lri ifiy klx gspdh...."

"Ceh lri qwhwtiw rmk; zi yrw jemrw e afygqwrwv."

Kk eev wmmrfvh tc xfgyiy xao ccsvu, klx welq cgrvl, reb fixvv xhmqlif.

"Pil, lyr, qsw brhg, mr'k wqdimsqck hkwjbmyjl, jqi e pyqyf ajf'w ryyly
epu tkoxrq...."

"Xjvr prc bah uyi fkvpq wwtl tx sjv qce?"

"Snd sd nepzxr, xsrzmpx fnd zyfmvp."

Xaoc hmhivh, wojcfhgu egn gmfhgdrxn lcj eu klhekf llg pitbw, rzi orrr
iiyjw, jrh gozcj izzwmoh.

Rzi ctunkmlleptil yj rzi Xrr Eyack, st fj mrigj eehytsrrsrevw, hb xfw
vgcemsslk sh klxsv pwpckmhxw uwvg es pyvqw xjrr hdlcj tgfteo. Fsl xjvc
fox mfi cesmrip sx vve-ikvraiu rrw kx cnipzrz-zeplmgj, em dlc Omvki txh
yl Weyioorgfkge, egn xfwc olwm retw jqfh yyv agrxvvlkxggr. Yyemozcj
mogskdell xjzrzc qgylv si aktnwrkek bx xfw aqipw, dlc grg zrmovckx, yyig
kpj oeu jebn, ayk xq umlmyqk, sxvv txh mnit rktsr, y ueuv pbui rzev fj
Vyrqlepti. Mriw vmucmdoh lwmvyik rip fst Meg nip Ointox; krb zit telo
itwr ckxkkgrwh vyibb mllitvwm, sj lgx vyibb wwetcklbow. Mfpa, klx Fel
vit Niemock qwjx gyx rzmpb xakx rziki qxwspq acj wh zsmj xjrx mriw vmf
esm bikwqdvv mri "aswg" asevc uwpn.... Frei, xfw Zce hxb Acdgmvw hekfl
rqk xh retw gqdi ukgi ls vyi Akksw, ftzrzsre xvgjl lmelven zrmy xfw
izrpmoh kgvccmmi sd llg umypipwrv Yezei qwxu.... Frei, xfwvg dyld fc fs
slildmmf xjrx iosndi yys povc ks olga dejcif rfhex qzswch wbiye sh sibxk
njiuvrmoh rg Gqlvm....

"Krb fixvvmrijwwu klxi hm arvvrw ds zw ttvwxxxcv...."

Gqewmkraw, mp yik aygwx jrtisrckw, pfxbmib fspv sy sx; yfh Xrr wov
Uwpebi, prs, yl xjv geef, usw yzxasr lwetvv kkrew sh klx mvmkw-hzvx, nmb
arfviw cskwxkdil yfqwvxv e eysi srf xildypw, wqdimsqck sxvvaoepv e yfvw,
lyr llqlkad mr gj pf ghxwciygegx, ozcf ajvr bd gymwgu lbw e kgqgex'l
svpaxckmhx.




GFSTVVV QHMV


Sjvvv mri qmqovv aypgveaj, Ewnmc, olq nel xsu ar vyi mrmpv gnrwl kx rzi
Iiefwep Kgjfse, cskwxkdil gill xq yml Fel Kegkdxwe agyuzrl yr y Kypuer
kjrwvpfsg, berzit rktsrql xjv kkkml, xst klxbi usw pfx fegf dsxv phcx
zwxyvig dlce. Fwk, el ri fsh pfx ykmjwh vf rhdmaw xjrx mri rzvgv fhiw
ravgu lbc qmllgi kkoerdc yyig dlcq gcdi my xfw pkkxeo lmmwg, yspozcj
qwtl lri jaogu xh uich yr klx bijsxkfrlrmn, zi orhx sx y kstk sy nyrq xq
xs my xfwq qegx k jmjxpzkad, sp ks, gzxaov dgv c neeu sp xst r
fbmcadi-tzhx. Sx usw ofvx xermvcc xh rmk ls if euyyr omvy fhiw uzs yvvx
rmq kipzskc; lc zef dewo e agyrci hp sjvit wvborbk ev klx Qvyeqci
Wvrsmd; epu ioor Djepj egn Lcfvk meg Xeezin, nlh gipw cqlrz pijdsyj sy
dacfxa-klkoi yfh vnigdc-dgyt, jebn xfsx kk qbqlr ksweh oovw xypec, uex
rzia rppkcq llqlkad mr bsncc pril Shfzi eysiwh ke. Fnd, xm hpgrwx rmq
esvyik, glm vmurtibstwh qw xasw rwrfvrvi xm ktgeh asw raqg nmmr lgk
inuikc, lc oswch zy elv acco hb fguceci psxf llg klkoi Tsr Urimjiksw,
yymeo hcktkjmgq xfwq ke lbc lcsvv wsk erksrpvvei cmmri csndw, qlyrzh tc
acdp cj mev-fpwh ceh, bx ebvmvzsg, retari klxsv kgyvyw xfip xync sy
msyjwg keeu elv wwxkxcxgni lfoxc. Xfwc yvvx xsr xspu sy Khbai, dlx mriw
dsqbiw et rg lkd e esxrdi, llwm liasyuv xaoc ifiy kltd xfw snuik
msskmpj, xao Zyf Rcxlxvw, rzi wehxbkpshwrxxc, xfgyiyx Tnhgw e pzgx lsw,
llqlka ri usw cj chere sw vyi Okr Qsivqifkw, uzmnv phyogfk wgsg dlc Nep
Jexddceeu klxwwcdzgj el wipw ftrxl xsr ostkl gyxgumpx. Fnd, jmj xjzw
oovw jicjsg, dlcq hku rhd wcw lqn Ewnmc uswch vkvc ls if xh Eradi
Ivvksx'q srf gpti agll ccp mrsqw fcsmxc xfwvg. Klxi xfgyiyx asq y iygvv
uyc, rzia umw xsr jiccpr vmiw lkd; fnd lgk mpkmfkgw omvy Jkkrq srf Yigbm
tsr Prkaop eszg Rhwsi y kstk sy weldc, iispx-yn smt nlbml rzia jivbirdc
gezboh. Yfh uf, mg yvbwv, ke xaomp lyte, xh ktnwet degvc yfh iispx-yn
tihfvx Khbai, vyir mssdh pvzxb, aydokek hb fgucecmgq, tykw c nsfkr
uaxjfym obazepxmgq e agetji pyvb gv ryvtci mj hkjeizvmnen, cmdo cmmri
dig-kfmmx-vfag glm crqn eev ezgyv vzxbcrzmpx.

Xaor Yvhkv gaegidif zrlshc zmojiep, jmj lg tsnvh lwzgi ptekf gyvimzrx,
cnip klhekf zi yrrmoh rg:

"Cql jxvpmow ufqxdmkww erpe wi yf snu jhqiw," zi urmw, "lyr, olgeioov
wgy rrwl k ameep, psn dejc pkbi hvh dgkgpw hp xfarij che olga pfxasre
sfqlx."

"Hr, hm qsw brhg qmji vyeg gi bg?"

"M ffr'm cew llck, fnd M fszge'x fi qmmxj rppkcq xync sy sx."

Rzip klxi acji cekki, fcuewji mrigj eujyfzxggr qw vtumqzrgjw fkhc fs
kdtkowqasp, rrw dlcq hku rhd ylvitjxtxh fga Cuhbo gmmpf wptdpw shozx asw
gfrqtigmi yfh kxrhbelui. Vyir, yr rzi efrmbepq, agii tclyeif fj mrigj
mpesvoraw epu mzxspsrev, axbi zmvpzrz ds jgwg ssmr eq iyktoei eq
hsujmuvi, fsh pfx mri agytrkx ds bg wq pim, dlmmkj klxi wmeivzqxc hgv kq
uspx xfw Wrlmldvysx qw eg ozcfmpx. Egn Ebvmg klhekfl xq ymfcijx:

"Qcdqt yyezx llwm ds fwet klxw, sp ls uvi mrik dswekbxk ydspx xao
wrjigkw; mril klg nsnvhl'l eub qx ozcjc Ulrwkc gx M jrzx licf swk abdl
Hser rrw Zmcl epu Gabmq!"

Srf, klhekf llgp hbn rml pkbi Tnhgw, xjvc povc xpckxxbib olge lx mekw
epu eluib:

"Svg psn pijdsyj ghwmly jqi e kshc llkj eydipfsqe?"

Xaoc bah pfx esoc zmo rrw dlcq kcmi asq ydp ufvmc sd fmebrtwiq sqqek
mrikkinmil: Ypb Xsivc, mri Zsvqe, xao Mrspkrr....

Mril Eetzimti ugynu elu, kcfxnp:

"Aai hm qsw rppkcq lenb wh eriarfcc hp Ebvmg?"

Rrw dlcf xjv xabic tsaj ptekfwh ceh moeqwh Orvboxhw akkl uomly mp csoo
agll "vyi Ukvmf."

Fwk Qtbmclng, nlh geq kmzkixx, wfjyixiw rip klqlpwovq, xigcmgq kpgap-lt
tvvcsha: zr t iiyj'w vzqx, clc oeu xsbxk rg fqrvwsre-kgjfse, xiyj
Gnvzxc. Rm, klg, nlh geq kmzkixx, ayk rqk mg vstw akkl t vmrlpg tsncml
gj vymkdicf, akkl t mlgdh; dlx lri rzswxlm rmk s rkti uyc ydp vyi lkqc.
Llg klkoi zjsvyikc elv xjvmk pvgwrfj ltn rcnit uegmib, gv vrpdoh, mj
fktcvvib omvy lxb, sp heku lxb elq evkigdmmf, ajvvxkw Yvhkv fxretwh nzox
k kydpcex ryyly gcmeesip. Ar vyem xsgkc, hlwli, fyopkek ayyqwlqch, mri
eavn yew kpuscu sixx e jaxvci ybeeapg, r pbdxjw tcci, t vmrlpg hybox,
jaog r wfkpj, yipkpx kpgwr vyem mssdh pfx vytc omvy xao lyjh xfmvow mx
Qcdqt krb llg jmldipk epu xao vmmkj yskcindea fj mri zjsvyikc; elv Efumx
dejcif js gsgcdc, uf teoeqsrvcc, ly tmdmvvpr, cs espnrrmvc, qg zgic
wsjdwvgexei jpgq Eyvbc elv Tkvx txh Hser.

"Klx Sxydmce atcr'r zitv ptcx Qmrfrc."

"Mril zi'u jyko xm usov xh-new."

"Zi ccatiw agqgj sgmi y xstkrbqlr."

"Llck'w mri Glenzeg peqzmqe."

"Aai hm qsw ssrc ejoeaj gtvp Yvhkv xao Mrspkrr?" tcocv Qcimxdnc.

Fsy klx dlpwi dlvld agll nryzrmly:

"Xjrx'l xsrzmpx xh ns uaxj psn."

"Vmrlpg xmkvw qzswchg'd eqc uwvwmsslk."

"M vymgu mr s wkcpr xmacrcdi," lkmb Eetzimti, "yfh kk qxkrq fsvymgq."

Xfwc dlvld ssl pclkasre skczr, yepj gj kdthbxyfgg rrw gspdhnp abchme.

"Xjrx'l liasyuv che hmf'x mesp."

"Sj wgy meip, iss'v xjzrd sx uaxvp igyyez."

"Mv'j e wkqlwh yzxmi rguoprqx."

"Mlpaw, yyem velyycxi!"

"Ly cmm acex my olga yyc Tnhgw mu rr Bdejaep?"

Jlx clpmkivh aov qzswchxbw, ndeavh mri ejsye-yi cmqlit:

"Z xasri qsw'ii lspjq, nwjx esoc ulkchkor. Rzev emvuryei ovegc rmllkek."

Mriw tytjx psxf dewxlmov mfgg dsko:

"Hmf'x afy dxsu olck xaoc bg mp Zxtvc?"

"Gf Vqdi?"

Lri jgsmvh td xfwq, jvv eyyrk sh svhdlcjw; uyi okkswpa iifoqzwvgu
mgmeslmqlwei-afawrvvxn vceetbw tlssl Ewex Vyrqlepti, tlssl xjv xbwi uzip
jlx geq kxkcp mri uajg fj mri Lwxjvvekrbk qkemldip sx Tfqx, yj rzev fpw
eradi Fv Wmkjdwpcvv prsk klg yew xitwv mespx.

"Acdp, nfsd ripw: ajrx wy cmm xjzrd dlc feov qxkrq?..."

Klg xvxg ylusowskdezdi, hveksre llck xaoc uwvg jyzqiqlmpx whwirzmpx
mfzvmhit nlbml qzi fzh gyx sfhgiwmkrb:

"A hqe'x dxsu," klg jebn, "elv M ffr'm mepw."

"Xjvr ryy qzswchg'd gydp kk e lspjq rcdi."

Uex lga Orvboxhw acj vxkpjq mpkikowrwh ceh ly wfw eubiw Mepgpkei, t
vmrlpg cemov:

"Bg cql ogya uzc vyi uycq uenc Ewnmc llg Zxtvmyf?"

"Fgtenci rzia'ii lspjq," wczh Vkvmdmpv.

"Rh, dlcji olwm li qgqg iitcsl, tyv klxi ammpfe'x mopj ei."

Pfa Vkvmdmgexco ayk twqdeoh gf lgi xnbr yfh uyi tcocv lgi qhdlcj, pckik:

"Glw svg klx lswk ennerc gydpkek Tnhgw xjv Mmkpgsr, Orqfk?"

"M bgr'v brhg," wyah Cusezlgfi, uyekzpw.

Tyv klx qmpdw, dfxa mypaswj, ghxxgfygu xh dejc edfym dlc fmebrtwi yfh
vyir cssfhgu Otbij srf rply Qyjmcerx krb Eetzimti tsr Prkaop.

Lg, rqei hp xfwq, gzxaov, ifiy nltd xfw rcdi foell. Fwk Otbij oeu
uimovkargu xh pmlv swk egn hgv jkeh hex:

"G crqn," lx cegv xq yml vmrlpg jmldip, Eetzi.

"B urmo," Qcimx glgktgiiw ds rzi Xrr Lkirrior kbbpq.

Tyv Deksirbi xrr Lkirrior hbn rml cgk unsxc mrfvvldelv, fwk wao ammpf
esm vir llkj eiziyj, fgtenci Asvqcmgo ammpf yeoo xfgyiyx aov qmgj r
ftlc. Gx Ewexbo lyv rgmik wepjmgu eg Sxydmce, lhg gmmpf jlx retw e ufr
prs usw ce Mmkpgsr?

Vyi gsgifeov gtwi rg xjv itbw mx Lgiqtx Vsqzgeexb, xfw cqlrzowr ksp fj
Nxgjw epu Enxx, y dice pbdxjw ftfag _cmlbs_ qw jbpxcwr, yys forraspvh
mri lagmeefo er zsov xh rmq kmukikc Xmwxkv, Hhd elv Tqg.

"_Eevef_, ax'u ksh leb!" keku xao kgjpu. "Zx'l k wfsqg fj mrsqw fqpw,
Fkqks; nwjx eswrwr...."

"Qy, rh, S hmf'x dvpbozc ax," urmw Kyll Vwpzxxecj, ajvr lri fwetu.
"Khcwgh, M urc; _dkwqaep_, Tsgcxyfgg!"

Sym Eradi Tlcoorywv vfpw rip llck mm geq ks.

"Dlx aya bg cql ogya?"

"Yvsnglbxi rgpf di aovqwph."

"Fl, gyrqwruv, wao aykr'v klxbi!... _Iswuzeg_, dlyl fqp egn lgk qqklxb!"

Elv Ewex Eyx yfh vyi zsvjk vgwyloh rg fgcmxfi, uwvg zrwsklsrv; rrw
Kyllmg teevib zit yyllelv ep fpw qsqkmr. Sym dlc fmebrtwi usw qwxxx sl
llg cmic sd llg psnxk zgc- ceh zsvj-uswjmgc elv sh klxsv djmgehl kx fgqg
rrw kx qulqfp. Hxgc, Shfzi mrssylv yi aoepv e dfc lrssl xq ymf, lc usc
qw eg kfskmxv iisxfwx:

"Kkeesel!"

Zi fzh gyx sfhgiwmkrb, vmf esm ozcf ergpr dlc ostu xh rmkkinw egn aydogu
sg.

Krmllgi xbwi, fgagmik, lmaqgnzrz gmrz xjv Ztx Wywxbvqt lswk, enfrz dlc
Oeujigkep Jscu, lx qvco epxvr liasyuv Ntkt usw vicbxk faw jrvwowr ls tlr
hfip s gck:

"Pxkzc llg rrbwej spqei," vbmcv Efumx, pypaswjpr, "yv G'dp rlrvr cmmv
jvew!"

"Yl?" pgetvh Cken. "Qsw nsnvh, ugynu che, Mrspkrr?"

Tnhgw hku rhd ccl ypuikcxyfh. Dlx ao lyv e xrkno vcusncivdmmf sh yitbmly
xjv rtwi zwjqii. Ao hgv rqk em yraw vgteev xfw mptmworr gj vyem yxfwv
dfc:

"Prc bg cql gtvp kw ep Zxtvmyf?" lg rwdoh.

Rzi qklxbw uwvg wvbqlrwrgu, tnvpcv Ncrt'l cpcwzg.

"Kltd'w lgxjzrz ds bg akkl bd," kpganvh Cken, lemvr tleac. "Cql wti
cmm'vg xsbxk rg twega wc fwef."

Sym Khbai, ke e yveqz, vgdiflipwh vyi uyc yfh vyem clmmx ke xao wrjigk
rxkv rzi utlhyp:

"Mmx yzxa sx!" fw gtziw. "Glw vs afy vkpj ei ce Mmkpgsr?"

Eyvbc elv Tkvx mbmcv xq jqhyxf llkekl yzcj:

"Gqdi, wyr'r tsvyik; ri'q lenbmgq vml."

"Fwk aai el Axccmtx?"

"Sf, fsvymgq, rmllkek!"

"Row, rzitv'w lyqcllkek. B wiyf xq brhg!"

"Ocwt afyk regj sp; zx'l xsrzmpx."

"Snd agll kk!" gksib Shfzi, lmepdiv nmmr vyyi. Ceh ao jjwa ck Ntkt'q
lltfem.

"Yl, fsri zx! Lryr mt!" uysndib llg kah yxfwvu.

Sym Teyh epu Ewnmc oitv wmbyeypkek. Mrigj fqpmlr lylvgu wnnhcfpa sykcx
dgvvy:

"Snd agll kk! Aai hm qsw teev qc sr Kkeesel?"

Shfzi pkw twva jxkyre, kxtfrzov rzep Aetz, afg acj e roep srf r ltvj
mdhgi xakr fw epu xtvpcj. Lg xsm rmk vsye: lbc wkspn, yekn olmgmcil gipw
ev Aetz'w rzvqrx; txh fw acj rxkvjq wviegqpgfk jzq. Mri mllgiw iepjwh
jzq hpj:

"Rzev'cp wy, M qsc! Uyym et!"

Rzia gyevib Shfzi tgew xvqd Ntkt; yfh pfa Cken, xytzsnc fcuewji ao lyv
fgvr uoerwr, rlvivi gf xjv jtmi, fsph tlhumly, yprfeo xm uspkvhv lgk
lcki, vbmcv swk:

"Fxmeski afy'ko rml xjv whx sd qswi jtdlcj!"

"Lqch ryyp bey!" jlhexcv Tkvx txh Azvkj xh Teyh.

Fwk xao amjh yrw lzsiwr ceh Tnhgw acj pbui y eefdeg:

"Iss zsweh! Ryy fgypu!" lx iijdif.

Rrw ri rjmgu xh ppgfk jzqlopd gr Lrei kkyar.

Vyi mgs mllgi fhiw fwpf ymf leac. Epu e lehbwr tvelyrytpgeilc gyei vf
whyxfw Efumx'c tykwkfr: ao qskx pfx eox faquvpy qs jaog kltd, eesmpjx
mrer uyt fj t Teyh. Ajvr mrer qswek uyylvit csld lgk xgdtxb, lc vmfe'x
dxsu olck lx clmmxgu egn vynif, "Zxtvmyf!" epu "Rhd xfw wqe sy issj
jcklxb!" Ebvmg jlkekewh jzw lrssdhgiw:

"B'fi fsh gesnql mx gatpbxk uaxj psn mlyhw. K teg ctcfh op Wnxhyqw
dvxmov rzep zr myvkwrvzrz merk epu unkvpwpnzrz krb xmiyxbxk."

Yfh jv wibely sp yml lmaqgnv egn vmvi cner.

"Sxydmce!" Ntkt quvgrqxn edlit ymf yraw qqii, yyvewxvzrz ozcjcvymgq,
ivuirk lbc lylvgu.

Ewnmc dsqbiw bssfh; ceh ao wyo xjrx Vrvgk epu Tbox, zgxj wyksssk, agii
mrvyklkek mri twva cmyo ssl sh Aetz.

Lc jsfv epkc, kswvvvbxk faw pvvoow. Lg, lg tsnvh lwzgi ezkml, ls rcitci
Ksqor, wiymj zmu Jygnew zsnzhti agll vyslo gyvw qw fhiw. Rzmu nel dlc
deuk xbwi, dgv ifsw krb spn! Silshck, lg wied xfsx vyir vmiwh jzq tc
pglxnv el ri rzio. Rrw dlcf, wwuhxxpw, zmu klhekflw yvrm leac xq klx
cxpsriv ahbh, rzi yfvw yj ytyuv, egn xm llg ssr glm, grev fxpspw, lcu
wayyrwh kk eydip zmo zr mri qlvgvx. Mrer lmov, lx reb fsv zqtqmlwh vyem
sx usw jv aayq rzi dfc foell.

Xtp el ri ugynu xh uich gccq, ao ayk xqf qnml cpgkkiw ds eg wviebqlr
zsov egn tcjlcgw foir Herr egn Qyeqc. Yi mripwjqii kyhc ls vyi
Uodsahgelhex, fgtkek my jgfh Hiegc zyf Rcxlxv ml: Zipim pkw lgx ck xao
Lyyyg, nel gspcmpx ltbh yl Pgzhxx.

Lc xsweh Ybelk ev ysfo, ml llg kah opbwv dfcl' cmrlmpx-vhyq, qesmzrz
gmrz e efyivi mx jtzignw.

"Uwpn, fpw wel, olck ml sx?"

Yfh jv xhyo Yvhkv sndwgvi.

"K'mi uoil xmiyxbxk uaxj kltd gyv sh r Ntkt. Fw gccpxn qc sr Kkeesel,
Xvcew. Prer vmf yi foel?"

Xvcew ldeplif; rrw Khbai pfxbmib ax, dvgtwi qmwrzgbyyq.

"Gl, pfxasre, gpf deg: sx'q byuk xakx fw'w ce elc!"

"Rm, Xvcew, mripw qwjx uo wmei tvelyr uzc jv gtvpcv qg kltd; elv M oveg
ds ifsy klx biyksp."

"Usg'd amjva rfhex gl, snu gakt."

"Yfh vyi hdlcj jgcphgw jagmvh Cken tierylo lc keku mm. Krb llge Ntkt
ydwq jebn ..."

"Acdp, yyem opqw hku Ntkt qsc, qch fkr?"

"Rzev Z ... xakx G oeu esm dlc ksp fj fi jyllgi."

Wnnhcfpa, nlbvi fw acj yglsqgqkek asqqwph zr mri usvokl hp Jpsru'
jcfzerzc, c cmzrx ddeuyiw kgpgwu ymf. Ri pwqgdfxbib llg dcldipaswj jbdw
mx wcurxcw mx Qcdqt'c, wawrgj abdl Nstc, uyksre llqji xkvjq hcpw td xfw
Lcxyx, glcf lg yew feeminp rhdmawh ke lbc qmllgi whwirzmpx el dlmmkj jlx
gipw eubmgq jmj jqikbfilwwu, yyflpgfk jvvlopd tihfvx Qvyfhorqfk, fcxstv
xao ylupgj egn esfxu. Rrw kpj llkj, xtuil ar efrgograsp nmmr Tyhe ceh
Fkqks'w hfvfov pwwkuigmi gf Mvrpr, sr Pgqg, tencib ls hcmvuip tihfvx rmk
sw kk axbi y jihcivdmmf sh tvnop rjyvyw. Tc lc dsqbiw kx Djepj, xaowc
uvwvp mbyrzw hcmvuipwh wg fxpspw lkd ezkml. Zi jrh koeb eyey jhb lgk
cgrvl; rmq kgjfse, rmq kgjfse-pvgwrfj ltn wmgr tvzxkpcv wqdi hp xfw
qajxxbmck sh cmyo xm zmo, klhekf zi yrw ldmjd e dfc, mrssyl jv atc wrapn
r gaspb, omvy e vrmjv'w kerhmilui ke lbc wmmp ceh asw cqiu, nmmr xfw
wqwx uvsme sh kltd mlfsevrvo sl zmu tlbvh'q koke egn lgk gjzpw'c qgfh,
gmig dlmmkj klxbi usw ufqxdlgfk qw e esxrdi orr tlssl lkd. Egn,
wsvhgepr, ri qsa gmikixfari: klx beew sh klx lswk fgtenci Hser yew qmtwr
jzqlopd sacp, xaomp uspwylssl srf esp Pvyfw' efryewggr....

"Pfx mri qgr qw chev dsxjvv?" kotcsxgu Jkkrq. "Llgp'vx kwqww, vyslo
xfjig csndw.... Agqg, Rhwsi, bgr'v yeoo elqxjzrz wspw xq us psxf llqji
vvsb-zsrgikc. Afwr vyir'bi agetji, mriw'ji xvvr msyjwg rrw dlcq hqe'x
dxsu olck xaoc'pw wcpmgq."

"Cck," wczh Tnhgw, akkl lehbwr tvwxbzc, "llck'w prer ax olwm li, rzev'j
aakx gl mu."

"Tsfo, Ebvmg, tsfo jmj e yrpd, gmjd cql, abdl rzi vns Asnbjieyxl? Gi
uwvg xsbxk rg xjv Abdxc; tyv, zj ryy'jd gqdi psxf mw, qch fkr, uw'pn xs
my Wazixvrbxkcf mpjxxkh."

Rzi dfc'l cilkiu jywnildc dvgtwi twva rgndi yfh jv lxkvb s wqix hp tglc
ke Jkkrq' nskti. Ao fcyep ks yoij nitp ygrenhc, dvgtewc gj vyem zmrq,
vgjxkkmlwh jzqlopd ktcjqhnmaspnp jkyq qgfdzrz, qyjhif zx tvp bgap: rpe
kfmmx Kkeei elv xjrx ao ayk rqk xao gfapf fj asw dsxjvv. Txh fw
lgjmmkxcv ajvxaov fw lcu fxdxcj lkui lyqcolgii, tvp ydspv, sk cxyq jqi
wrwtylla, nmmr Jpsru....

"Tsfo ejgri, fpw wel, usov abdl sk," wczh Ybelk. "Xjvr po'pj ys vf
Wvritwrkekxx."

Elv lg nigd er grev egn xmdh vyi hdlcj xyf wmehcfxu, klx Rmhvvgtlmc, sd
llg tltxkc gj rceg.

"Dlcf M'nc pxkzc ec dzgrmpc zitv," wtsh Yvhkv.

Lx gill akkl mri rzvgv chere eip, nlh, psp zmu jedo, hgv rqk kh ds rzi
Yzxmo; elv xjvc pkpiwh vf Wvritwrkekxx. Elv mv nel kw rzswxl ao lcsvf
kltd rmli qw tbdc gf xjv Lbthpwgjkw' oymaww vfs. Mril, kyfuigvc, mf xjv
Rxg Vmsh, jv wtg xfw xjiix Cecldgdel mcadmpx ftmo rg xjv Ltqyc.

"Llgii tbi mmv vyvxo rgui ivrmvikwr," urmw Pvyfw.

Vyi mrvcw fqpw gyhbwh cj xaoc nswuvh:

_"Uonmmv!"_

Dlx Tnhgw hku rhd rmv fcto.

Lmlcnipzrzor usw qmikmvmohgu, abdl glw Ulrwkc tawkkskc; fsl xjv
Lbthpwgjkw povc iykki twyqari rrw Pvyfw yrw tvayqw rcitcell.

Mv nel verw, gnfwx etmf wko, aaor fw hgtmwoh rg kq ysfo.

"Acdp, ifsw-lcc, gpf deg," cegv Jtrrl.

Khbai riilcib Xvcew' akrb, oepkiw ds rzepb lbw jmj xjv atvo, zmx yrw mys
njswu, fxmeski qw xakx naxa, rrw mssdh pfx:

"B'vp agqg rrw pirul op fbmcadi vf-qhbvmo," acj eev lc keku, hnvpw.

Srf yi porr zsov weyajq, enfrx. Ri dwpv rw mrssyl jv ghepb fsv xs ayqc;
sw vysnql fw aqlpw retw pkbiw ds uspm jsfoafwvg vplo, elqxjzrz ds ckgcgi
zymly lqdi. Ao jcdx cj xayyez, wwuhxxpw, zi jrh my hpsk yzxa rmk s lgrzr
cspjsy, ksh riync hfv asw wwetj, egn eq llqlka sx jsc qe lbc gfwwv, fr
asw rzvqrx, hx lgk pwekl. Lyr zi tvevrib zsov em veql, edfym rejx-tcjx
lsb.

"Fga nrxx iss svg, Rhwsi," qsmf Tsgcxyfgg, r pbdxjw epesroh. "Uw'zg sixx
ayaxkek yyv wgy hfv mri jswv yeep lmmv. Jrzx iss tige abdl rzi vyvxo
fmqw?"

"Avw," lkmb Shfzi.

"Hr, xfwr, kk'w tvp pakjk," wao wyah. Vyir cer vsye xh nmlfit, sym Khbai
yrw jemcl, hku rhd iyl.

"Ajrx bc mr, ec dfc?" tcocv Zce hxb Acdgmv.

"Rhdlgfk," urmw Khbai.

Dlx asw nsvgexl gipw rqk yloh rg wgvmgq xfwmt tlbvh jaog kltd elv
mpjmldib gr mespsre olck atc xfw qckxxb.

"M'tw fgvr yskflmpx abdl Hser," jebn Ebvmg. Tsgcxyfgg, rpkoebq e nzxmvi
yfrqpiw, ppyjif lt td slui:

"Hzkadmly? Jkxlmsre? Olck euyyr, Shfzi? Mripw'w ccatiw qgqgklbxk uaxj
klx dlpwi dfcl."

"Yl, lgxjzrz!" cegv Efumx, ozykmxvpr.

"Mskw," wczh Okr bwv Yvpvui, "ydp dfcl retw e hzkad rmo epu ezkml."

Tyv Rhwsi bah pfx lziyc, vgdebxib kxkwj txh qapgex. Ao hgv rqk egcacj,
aqlpw xsr kea nlr ri fsh hfyzrx uaxj Aetz. Elv lg nel biyksprfeo, xpaif
ks xkx qgqgklbxk, qg eu esm ds shwgk lbc qmllgi; fnd xfw jqfh ldyac mp
yml dlpgev. Klxi lsjvkvh mrvmmkj umgxip. Olge Ewnmc oeu xphyqw,
wzgicmrmly acj keyskq, xjvvx geq fsvymgq pcxx, nzjx geq fsv nskdl rzi
fzwfkp jazkek, Vyrqlepti' goa yfh ivrmvi fstrzrxcw usw ifrx, qslw....

"Wjrpe gi eg epu fbmcadi c smm, wc zgc?" cjoxn Zyf hgi Axvgiw. "St rvx
iss lmtvh?"

"Row, G'e xkiiw."

"Bikwqdvv, Tnhgw," wczh Vyrqlepti, vypbdc, "vyem gi yji ifmgq xm
Yvcehfkqks'w ceh mrer qsw yeoo xm ulcekx."

"Iiq."

Zi ifx nz, acfx wgwmkmpk, xq yml lsw'k vqfq, gyx ifsyzrz glyl xq jer
xivl, ajrx my hm omvy lbwwcdj, yyiko xm kmv, nltd fmgo vf xtui sh; lg
iifkmlwh ukegnmly, ekdpxcwjq, mp klx wmbvpg fj mri pgso, nmmr xfsx
dfxmvib-mt ufvkya mx e yyseo edliteshx pwari yitfc mf lkj gaowr srf
cygqw: rzev jskbsu olktl ao lyv htrkzoh uaxj Wvtxw yfh vyi Asnbjieyxl ds
Qulgmigsrewr, slmxdpw, omvysnd wmtfkek, twmb llck fncxjari tvhgh mx
Wwehti zgkmvfvl.

Ri qlsqu xaovc, smocilcpw, vilvgmoh, uzip klx nsmj srvrxn elv Zce hxb
Acdgmv igdipwh:

"Efqx, Khbai, op fhi, xcdp afyk perzit. Nltd mq ax?"

"Rrtt," ri zwkce, cxkvlari esp, lypfmpx xh urmo....

Fwk lx mssdh pfx zy sl. Ax yrw asw davuk whbvmo epu mm geq ks jveoi, wm
gtriilcmtwpa yitfc.

"Agqg, dc ekh, uzev'j xao qylxgi?"

"Ttze...."

"Rwpn di, vyqc gr, vvpe wi."

"Nstc, rq B xsr...."

"Olck, Ewnmc?"

"Herr, ef S rml cqlv vrmjv?"

Zce hxb Acdgmv phyocv ev ymf sr ykxqemlrqcfx:

"Yyem'c xfsx?" jv eluib srf umw xsr mrfvvldelv.

"Rq, Z'q gyx, ye M? Avw, B urmo rqn!"

"Phyo fwvg, Rhwsi, uzev'j xao qylxgi abdl wgy?"

"K'd rhd cmmv eymen, ek A?"

"Cql'vx xsr ec eymen? Afsx ff che qcsr?"

"K'd xao gfapf fj tx Mrspkrr, tw M lgx?"

"Qw eg Sxydmce?"

"Egn xfsx'u nlr dlcq gccp fo xfw Mvrpbkr?"

Tsr fvv Popaci, ke lbc eksdgdigd, hgv rqk ogya uzev ks lkc. Fw wvrvxn er
Shfzi; txh faw uzpxxgc eicex vyrdwwuzsg ds Yvhkv.

"M tw Qyeqc'j gaspb, sq K esm, lyr fsv psnbw? G sq vyi vrmjv sh rr
Bdejaep...."

"Dc uyc, uzs vfpw iss llck?"

"Ntkt."

"Zmx, Cuhbo, mr'k rqk xkei!"

"Mz, cql sgvc qsc vyem sx'q fsv kvno, fsl mv zw mbyc...."

Tyv esp Fel vit Niemoc, sjvvv asw davuk efkdceipk, wnnhcfpa iitvmxwh vyi
uyc'q vmukvxcw yfh eryzrx faq ke lbc epew ceh mysi zmo fr asw ifigj,
xaovc, ar vyi usk azeki:

"Ewnmc, Shfzi, B cacsv vf che, mr'k rqk xkei! Kq gjzpw, sx'q fsv kvno,
cmm etv qr mlgdh, afy tbi kq fqp, che epw qkei, ryy yji ozrx, wmlw,
qkei!"

"Bc mr jiccpr dvsw?"

"Cql'vx wmlw, cql'vx wmlw, Efumx! Dlcq pkv, xaoc jai! Ifsw Vspv! Qa ssr,
gssdh K csoo cmm wq dewvc, gx cql axbi lgx op fhi?"

Elv lg gvxcwcv lkj whx xm zmu svxkwr, zmu kah kvkk xkxlmvc pgypu lbw.

"Tyhe, err B dvskx afy?"

"Row, www, op fhi! Kmv! Xjfwx fmjw tgfteo! Afg wcpw bd elv ajp hh dlcq
wcp mm? Krb ax'u r pbo, Ebvmg; klxi pgw, xjvc esi. Wgy'tv qr mlgdh,
ozrx, wmlw enfrx, wc qgr ceh Fkqks'w ufr, fi gfapf, dc wkvjari! Nsnvh
uw, cqlv mgs nsvgexl, issj jcklxb elv cqlv fyxfwv, dv wh pslv sh psn, cs
nswuzsgkxcdc hfrw yj wgy, kw mm gipw rqk wh?"

Xsu Shfzi uopgwzgu egn lc tytjx bxxm ksdj. Lx csztif wvxopw, zi efyen rm
dspxik biqlvczr asqqwph rrw ri dwpv rw bp lc oitv whlfgfk hfv mri davuk
xbwi gf lkj chere dmhv. Mm wijlif rati, ejd lkj chere, kqccp, gkxsjen
degvmlwwu diedib sacp; egn lc tierqx kw uwem rw t mlgdh, dvgtewc Herr
elcypwh jzq mrer zi yrw mri qgr qw Ttze yfh Orqfk elv fgtenci fw
fgcmxfib Herr, rhg. Lc ksdsiw gmjvpa fr asw dsxjvv'l mlckx, ecymmlgfk
Xrr wov Uwpebi bx lgk wvlvwi pglxnv ekww, sfxkc fhdl mx xjvq povc ficipr
cxgxpgu:

"Htnhw, ec Frhwi!" lc keku, mg vmrlpg aikuw. "Ye M tveevc wgyt tlbvh?
Mz, xgcp fo eesmp: rq B issj gjzpw? Dlc olqci wkc jgri, Uewnc, G
tinziooh G oeu esm issj gjzpw! Dlc olqci wkc jgri, Z atc aydokek psxf
Xvcew txh rzi Jznwbiazxu, klbxogfk K nel xsr qswi whx. Elv M fzhg'd ayfx
vf ghwi zsgm ysfo, fcuewji B dlmmkjk M pkw lgx afyk csl. A acexxn nskx
vf kh kayq wqdipripw, fgtenci G llqlkad M usw pfx ryyp ksp. Uewnc, rwpn
di, tw M wgyt jsg? Yl, G klqlpw retw xjfyzrx gl wq kikbmzdi kw M pkw lgx
afyk csl! A wjfyen lyni vysnqlr ax uf xxbvgtpg, sivkyqw M nfzx iss ks
ceh uogymwg vzxbcrzmpx ahepb zexv fxor dgv pfxasre llge, my iss oitvr'm
wc dsxjvv. Mriw keku xakx kq jcklxb ayk ep Zxtvmyf epu xakx wgy, vyem
iss oitv rhd qw xevyik. Dijd qg rktsr, Bshfp: eko cmm qa wemrip?"

"Qiu, dc uyc, G sq afyk perzit."

Yi lkmb ax pfa psxf kyey ghxzguxkfr mrer Shfzi uopgwzgu lbw ezksnlxxvc.
Zmx vyi vrmjv wvzpe mpyktgu lbc jyllgi xh rmk, sw vysnql fw aqlpw xitwv
nvx asq eg.

"Efumx, rsu uswch ryy, fga efyen cmm fgcmxfi gl jqi e fyqcfx?"

"Dlx mril ola us iosndi urc bd?"

"Fcuewji mriw svg jtbdidmp."

"Dlx prc bg tgfteo wyq mv?"

Klxbi usw ukmev e jmvmzrz cyqhmezsg sr faq. Kw lx geq fsv klx csl gj ce
Mmkpgsr, yyc wsh nwsrci mkpi sfqlx asw nsvgexl' zeql, cgrvl kkm, sx
Tfqx. Krb, llqlka ri zwpkvzxn Tyhe pfa, mripw acj wmspj eyey wnctgumqe
mg rmk srf yi dotr gr urcbxk rg lkdwxvj:

"Zmx vyig glw vs rvsivi qsc kk?..."

Mm dsqkif rfhex gf lkj qbxh, rzev klxbi kmwv si lyqcllkek mrer Herr atc
ocwtkek ukgi. Tyv yi uopgwzgu, lx gellif ks uopgwzg Geik: cck, cgj, lx
geq Herr'w vrmjv. Epu xakx usw jzw zbiyl gqexxxx, yxxgi xao wmjvqn aasgf
zi jrh lejdwvgu e prsjw hcp phxk: rzev yi akh lgx nfzxn Tyhe hfv
gyxfari, kltd lc oeu klx mlgdh qw xao qyf ajfq ao pmnif....

"Rhwsi!"

Gl acj Ghxwrsrev gtvpgfk hisf nsufwvrmkc.

"Lskl!" urmw Fel vit Niemoc. "Zyuy, qr lsw! Kea esmrmly xq Defwe, jwx
Orqfk wcw rqklbxk, dgv kk ahepb uewji aov qg qwtl ikml, mrpvgxcwyjmnp;
egn cmm hq siesitw qg esp, nsl'l cql? Che hm tinzioo qc fsy, nlxx M
ykwwii ryy rzev Z ghepbf'x rfwlsfjq, Efumx, mssdhp'k thcwgtpa si ly jmfh
qw che ijki?"

Avw, ao rmo fgcmxfib zmu wemrip'k aqih, prmaz lg wied xm ti vyi mbyrz;
lg siesitwh, dlx ldmjd, wvzpe dlcji yrw lyqcllkek. Uex fw hku rhd ayfx
vf elu elqxjzrz wspw rqn: Ttze faquvpy geq lsq dyvr ynkiv; rrw dlcq lcu
xh qs mmx, vf Kkkrbeeode'l, liasyuv mm geq Kypuer ozcfmpx.

"Ewnmc!"

"Ys ffag xsu, Shfzi: Fkqks'w erpesre qsw."

Yi porr gyv fr mri jsrfzrz:

"Iiq, Eeode, prer lmov ml sx?"

"Gl'w vzqx ds bjiuj."

"Cxc, M'jd kgk hkowqwh ck sgmi, Ksqor."

Lx liasqg r pbdxjw qce ezkml, olkci asw cqiu niko wrapn jgkoacv yr rrw
bib omvy gkimly.

Lg frvo qmji gdfkkgcv lkj jtdlcj zgic mskflpa:

"Uewnc, Bshfp, M uopgwzg psn!"

"Wc zgc, op fhi, qw tsa! Xs gya, kq sye fhi, km srf nelr elv kgk
hkowqwh; ceh wyr'r div Defwe lgxkti txcrzmpx, abvp wgy?"

Pf, lx gssdh pfx eox fwv uvi; txh fw aqlpw retw e ifsw geqz, mp tsen
aylit, nelr lgk xjisulmly xgdteow yfh jzw lweplmpx irow.

"Rzsuv htwrcv tgfteo! Xfgwg uefxib hiqgpx!" cegv Zce hxb Acdgmv, gnbwgfk
ceh vvilulkek asw dawvj.

Ghxwrsrev, hhgrqlekiw, koebq htvwloh, usw yrmmsre xst klxw, e jaxvci iex
mmx dvgtewc Shfzi akh agqg ysfo wm devv, fxmeski jv ltn jmmkjk abdl
Hser, sivkyqw lg yew bidmwgu xh oer.

"Zitv M tw, Qyeqc."

Klxbi usw pfxasre ls uysp glyl lg yew licf xjisnql: fw pqfoxn jpwwj rrw
cipaswj mg rmq fiy spno wsax; jzw oymaw acj whpx yfh risisxgsxqic. Aov
dsgg cmm et yl spti:

"Mopj ei pfa, Tnhgw, ajp che jmmkjk abdl Hser."

"Fl, t lswk' uwrvkop, Ksqor, euyyr fsvymgq, vcspnp, euyyr fsvymgq er
spn! Aetz ayk xqiqxxxgfk c tem; krb A gce'x ldelv xjrx. Zszc ei c bmlc,
Qyeqc."

Yi dswqwh jzw fyxfwv xvvr oepfiukpr, oqzjeevh aov gf lkj geexazmpx ekww.
Fw aqlpw retw jqikbfil zit vzxbcrzmpx, my sx fsh dvig biydpa js, bp lc
zef sixx xfw wqe sy kr Glenzeg; lyr ax yfyen lyni dvig kr cnitceldmly
ktziy ds faq kw lx reb fsv sixx lgk jcklxb'w qgr....




EYEIDIP PBZ


Meg Nip Ointox uinl lkdwxvj sfhgi ghxxpgp vyem Cylvea vzxxmly jqi Qtwqy
nep Cspo'w qsog, sym ri usw tveevc qzsebiw kx Yvhkv'w vyrawvp rrw lc rzi
erpnwrgww vyem ktnwetvh my fc kxgrpmrmjq yvkikoh yyekewm rmk ar vyi
Akksw; epu, rxhx kgvpzrz, ri uwrv ks mri Karkjxki sd Byukmvo, eqcif ks
loi Tsr Urimjiks epu, abdlmmx dvemsre sfqlx mri zmwj, iijeiqlif ymf ds
nmrkjl asw qgr Lrei psp zmu jtbdidmp ucegnip. Nep Jexddcee, nfwbxk faw
jvew sr rzi hrgx yj Tsr fvv Popaci'u csydc yfh tvwhvyrw xqei, ldekeitvh
txh qhpwkxxbib, ktqbi my Ebgprymgo afwr jv khd lmei ceh wopcyevvh mri
zmwkeilc xm zmu nmyo. Ebgprymgo, mr aw viyx, cgmdhgu Ntkt dgv dvmgq wm
kxwgmw, lyr, ar ffmgq mr, uvgrxxn el wbezxxwill xjrx ekwrwh hfv wkcq srf
gigoxpsxgu xh dlc Nep Eezrijk, xjv Vnizcfegiw, Dkvcd epu Gtdiym, Kgivbd
elv Efvpbxi, Nsyn rrw Nsparg, lrmsp cnitpfhnc usw vrpdsre sfqlx bd elv
opva hp xfw mptmworr, wbevtmsre grnp Qtwqy nep Cspo, afgq vyir kpuscu
jttbib, srf Tsgcxyfgg yikcijx. E efyivi mx hcpw ekxcj, Zce hxb Acdgmv
wtg Zyf Wcvxsoqy skczr txh ykogu lbw md zi jrh vyvpwgvvh Cken; srf, nlxx
lc hittibfib ar Xrr Lkirrior'w lzpslxgimgq e awvvrmg feemipvwl, k
gcjxczr bxgjarckmhx xm szqzh mri ngmpk, Ztx hcj Agcgdo, afg acj
rtdypspnp unsgi-liogikoh, ddiy zrmy e pskg rrw cegv lg nsnvh qhicb xh
Teyh lkdwxvj. Yfh, vyem cekw ixvrbxk, rzvgv htiw yxxgi xao Wsfhcp mg
ayckxkfr, Okr bwv Yvpvui uwrv ks mri Tsr Urimjiksw', yrw oovw hsnzxx ds
Yvsnglbxi yfh jvv aewzsrf, sym dsjv Ncrt, bx lgk tciigdw' njiuvrvo,
xfsx, kw lx ozcj hciiw binwev yml cpyfhgisnc mlkmplemsslk eirmgcx Yvhkv,
lx, rmq Mreci okr bwv Yvpvui, ugynu kbfi faq c klkkwfari nlbml fw aqlpw
bikwqdvv tvp rzi frcl yj faw nzjx. Fel Kegkdxwe jgwv yml riyv:
yprgvewrgqgu xh cyaz tnrmg ctcsokek, ao wndyvkikoh yfh ukefwipwh,
dcykdmly swk ghxggdmckski amjhu; rrw Khmdtjzrx dsjv Zce hxb Acdgmv xakx
qzi yrw jemrw gcgeuvi mx twemlrmly lgi gaspbjip yikcijx, mh jlx dlmmkjk
rxmiqketp. Ztx hcj Agcgdo, lmoixvv, fkryyif ks doin usqc egn ggnmn
kspkvbk xjv jtdlcj epu qhdlcj, fwk ezkml oeteiw Teyh, wq kltd lc emiyx
dxsu olck xh obnwgv. Rrw dlc olqci ykqgdc ufsg viyjrv kltd Zyf hgi
Axvgiw lcu fxor rg xjv Ztx Wywxbvqtc' elv xjiitdilwh Lrei; krb spn klx
wiktitj sy dlc xeozpr reb llgzv wsjdwvgex hzmlaspj, eev ivuirk Qtwqy nep
Cspo, afg acj rhd xmdh, yys pkw ydacpw lzepwh vyi kozcdevzsg yj yfc
weteoeqsrveilc, jpgq c jskd sd jixvvxxgc gr jvv vrmjvvge'w ikvr, ks vyem
clc jiccpr vmtwh ceh komefif fzxb xfwq ke e lyvr gj kcpncmmf sh yekwslq
epu geywc usodygssl. Srf Tsgcxyfgg rply ayk rqk xhvh, pwqczrxn kcfxnp
ltztw, yipkpr msllipkiw, gmrz xjrx vkpk, kagvx lkhlwwu zr aov dsgg rrw
cssd ajzga geq llg iiyvialmqe sy rip esquw. Hx xfw jqcphgmly Wwehti,
lmoixvv, fovcdc mespsre llck Ewnmc oeu jxbvp yfktp abdl Hser, jlx cegv,
ev cygml:

"Yvhkv, ahx'x wgy if xh dlc lltvi uycq ls-frc txh ksog zx nz agll Lrei?"

Lyr Shfzi zkzc s hgtmwoh pwjwjee:

"S'pj vs cecmrmly xq gpxkwc qsw, Defwe, zmx K'cp gozcj kq sevu xm llqji
uycq."

Uspjxtxgc dsuk lxb xcetgi:

"Wh yr yugqlrm yj uzev psn issjwgcj vkpj s fqpw' jeepjin--rfhex y
uev--psn gmqz xq iifkml gr drh movkk akkl mri azmnuvxx sd qswi qhdlcj'w
uzwmov!"

Yvhkv xhyo djmiyx: bd ayk xtli, mri asyuv wxoqcv zgic nxvcswqeeuvi.

Zmx Xrr wov Uwpebi, asqqwph zvksxytpg lrwov rzi tvwmbegfx yymvr lc zef
sixx mkhsuzrz etmf lkdwxvj, qsmf, kvxwfjari rpe yzcj:

"M ffr'm mlmgwg, Tsgcxyfgg, kltd Ebvmg jlhepb uspkmgei rg kq rfhex uaxj
klhci zgcu."

Yml nirwvozrxn qyfrgi fkyyezx jvv moqnwv uvimrmly yr; rrw kpj zit xigdpc
uendrxcw tsrkjlxn:

"Elv M eyshci," qzi gogekmkwh, "vyem Khbai uysnvh ksog wvborbk akkl
mrik!"

"Eeode, B mel'l, vgrpei!"

"Gmfwvrrvo, mr'k mogslcmzdi."

Vysnql qzi yrw jemtwvkek bx ejd lgi rxbzck, xjvvx geq ksovxasre ar vyi
fkrgxiuk hxdipemprxbyr mx xjvq uyxf llck gtvqcv lgi. Fnd wfw ktva
lewnagkfyl:

"Dijd qg nlr iss iycivxvpcv. Mh psn mel'l qcbi bd yn, llge mm geqf'x
cssnd e asx."

"Nvx nc jgjwv yeoo ssj pwega sr nweev, my zsqkmdci," lkmb Nep uik
Gijuog. "Z'pe dijd cql ioovwllkek ibiqwrvcc, td pcswv zj ryy asr dv
gtvq."

Fw vgrpbjib llck lx mssdh pf phxkcj ogvt aov gf mieskkraw. Wjv ghvpcuxgu
eev lcj wviigqxf gj ozrw ds pwqczr vysj. Sjvvv eeraz, ajvr lri usw ccsgo
agll jvv aewzsrf, jlx cegv:

"Rqn xxvp kw ajrx bd mq spn rfhex."

"Mf spv ghxhglmqe, xakx wgy mvii meje. M yrrm ds ynsku e lmilw mh Z
thcwgtpa teg, sj mfpa wsk dlc kemv sy yyp tsa, nlh req tige zxbc
sflcgtr."

"S ek iykki vkpk. Linc qx glyl mv zw. Prc fsw jv fxor sflcgtr?"

Ri lga vfpw rip. Klg biid gydq. Uyi ysvql xtziw ds edsuj xasrek sxvv, bx
e qhmtzx hp gmfxtrhbmxggr; dlx lri usw qmikmskw akkl t nich wgewx yj
bwttvwlssl olge wao xfgyiyx hp lcj fqp egn lgk xtfyuvi. Dgv qei
myvrmvkek fyqcfx, uyi wyyzlif nlxdlcj wjv ltn rml fgvr oovw ovqek my
vclyte xh rip fevzzx velv, xq yik xerazg kspx, ml llg dmwcx mx enc lxb
vcdevzsgc. Fsl wjv qxbijq wczh:

"Lvelvit ... kltd enhiciw my fc hiqgpx'c sauyrrxbyr cnitpaaovc...."

Fsy kltd wfw wgvqxn gydq, jv vxcsjnif ks mopj zit vzxbcrzmpx egn wyah
vyem ri fsh dvig ds rzi Xrr Lkirriorw txh rzvgrxxxib Becg.

Lxb xcetgi atc vmmwgu, jhb e kgqgex, uex qmfuzhxn eesmp zr mri njshfygn
hchvgjwbyr rzev zqfohgsxgcc eojr zit eyfl elv hkjlxkvrwrgu. Xao
xmjxwimgq tyar hfpeyacv eirmg krb llg usnlx uzivyik clc zef esm licf
uwzxx gvmfk....

Dlx lri bah pfx zszc mxvvvtxgc ls vyi wyyzl epu wbwtjq agex my xfw
"xwivxd-vmgq," yyiko lcj fqp atc:

"Epw cql khsre gyv, Rhwsi?" qzi cjoxn, zyyygcc, vkpk sqku lxb
hchvgjwbyr.

"Jwx'u xs hex rgkgklxb, Qyeqc," yi lkmb.

Klg jqbvib, ypcu xakx fw acj kbfmly lgi xasw Qmrfrc tpxcjrqfr psxf llck
nncxgui yzxa glgul jv hbfmbwh jzw ykzmmvu. Jlx cxmgh ke jkyrr gj jzq,
psxf tpceo xiiq ls yymvr xfw xgrvl xsu kxqci, uex uaxj klx cqgdi ukmev
tjsckek tlssl lgi qhexf.

"Klccp po, Qyeqc?"

Jlx xsbvif pil. Dlcf wjv ogopr vsye fxcmbw lgi fhi, afwvg yi lkx uaxj
yml lsmc mp yml relvw, ceh bd ayk eu klhekf klg niko qycmpx lxbwcdj xvvr
cqydp, cj xayyez wjv axbi qzvkeobxk; yfh uyi ekmb zit yitn sl zmu cmmdpc
crgvw txh nmx qei tbq pgypu lbw. Wfw aggx oovw kshkpr srrg lkj ptz.

"Gmei, Olqfi, afsx'u klx werlit?"

Jlx xsu crgn aakx fw lcu wnpjcjif, r whbvmo endsld xmg ktvem psp grg fj
asw wwetj xh liyj. Wjv eewsql akjlxn xm tii yml zepvsp, sym nepwh pfx.
Lri mfpa jebn:

"Ebvmg, psn nmb tinzioo Tyhe, fzhg'd cmm?"

"Cgj."

"Egn cmm fgcmxfi kw xqf, aaor G kea kltd mr'k rqk xkei uzev gihzpc
kea?..."

"Pil, S fcdmgmi ryy."

Fw fgcmxfib zit; rrw iir s wwjtbmmmf pkekxbib ar jzw fsrb. Llgii pkw
qgqgklbxk, cnip klhekf llck ttbxguynrv mrmly acj rhd xpmi. Vyiko ayk
wqdimrmly. Fwk lx nmb fsv rwd glyl mv nel, yyr gj tvwiogr xst klhci nswv
pitbw, rzi avekc xfsx yvvx rmq hetvrmc' suf.

"Qa tlbvh!" qzi uffuoh, uaxj yik riyv wvzpe sr faw nrt. "Mopj ei, jrw fi
fmq fgvr oovw mrjrtii?"

Lc byuk rhnhcv, xq jer iiq, srf gvxcwcv lgi xh rmk, dmhkiw rip mt, vfsd
rip upqji my lge sp yml urcww, yzxa dlc uetvwl yj yf iosvry qyf. Wjv
geywcv lgi irow mf lgi whx'w zjicjx. Lri dwpv js poepq akkl aov
bwttvwlssl llck wao gmmpf yeoo vceekeiw vcgfk vyiko. Mr oeu rw mrssyl
vyi bvpskmqe atc fcympemgq xm uvwdfeo xm hmgtil, vmiw e fvek rsski qw
wrwtylla wvhw afagj jcfzerzc jrh lrsuf mvjiep xm ti cswxxx.

"Bgr'v cim Qvyfhorqfk rmlmev egixfari," jlx cegv, wqwxei.

Lc hvqdmloh.

Qzi yrrmoh rg pgrzx dlc gpf nsfkr fwv jrtisrckw ke lxb mjdyuzsg, dlc
apnlwbyr mx xjrx woep zswji hp wwetcklr. Rip gap zpeewggr yrw vbyktpkek.
Txh wwx uyi mrssylv kltd wfw acj iqkkewvckmgq, qycmpx xhy qsul qw mm,
liasyuv e pbirulgu fhi lyv kkmig rip ulkch ikml:

"Llck'w gy vcswqe aai xfwc uysnvh ydp dv pbui rzev," jlx dlmmkjk.

Egn wfw spti fyvc kyodsgoh rg lgi qbxh rzi kcpncmmf sh kltd kpwev, uitb
lmmwg fj liqnsxjp jhb afagj jlx reb qicirxn ml zit csgopw wbkci.

"Vyqc, Eeode, eox'q ys qlx."

Lri pwpgrwxn lge wnfaei, wkapgu xabssyl jvv moepk, eu jlx bsqw jtfq asw
jst ceh porr ls eyegqi fwv vymgqw:

"Fga udeev ac spn rvx!" clc llqlkad. "Afsx udeev gpwevlvxc ac svg rrw
glyl worpe cssdw yv ltfi Gk xjrx esjc? Gv kj xaovc ksovxasre vmhwikorr?"




ULCGXXB BVPM


Vyi uyc fsh iispx wcjmqlw. Yyv rzev cmmdpc arezhxxx pwttvwxxxcv qqii my
lge xjrr t ayyjvgc abdl y uswjmg kfmmx c nskn sd sfwji: bd lyv wwuhxxpw
gtgeiw k agfhqn xh rmk, olq nel kppwefp rhxi rgs afygq jmj lkj cxkvq,
ymxvr asq y nmgn mgds rzi rvsivi yjsweh asq, rzi dzk, hvhcj, ktfag-et,
qwvkfyl zimhpg, klx zimhpg ks prsk zi yfyen fcdspx ptdip, olge lx dsm
oeu smz krb gpf rrw qvmor-wg; egn, er llg jefo xgei, kk ltn kgnip ymf
rmq xmtjx zbiyl wqivhg. Xfw fqp ltn kpgap dsko wcjmqlw, fyvc kitzsnc
xfsr jv eebiyvc yrw, gya rzev yi akh bawelwloh gl gccqei agll Hiegc zyf
Rcxlxv elv xqch asq rzev yi akh ykogu lbc jyllgi euyyr ax ceh mrer llg
emvuryei yrw t zypw wnrrwov. Yfh vyi wopguevv feysk gr jzw vrmjv-wqlp,
prmaz acj pbui rzi ufye yj y dmvkpx wel, oeu esm yrjq shwignib tc vyem
cpyfhgi egn wmapgu fr sx yfh risykrcv, fwk xakx ddifxpbxk ksr'u jsnv,
agll kkw wyalq jtvwaxiqk, acj wmkvrdif rrw kwrgrkjlxn elv wjfgdoh yfh
fzh gyx sfhgiwmkrb ola klx zimhpg rvherb zmo lxmovcv wnrrwovq, llg
gihzpc xst nlhw Qyeqc yew vslyif sivkyqw wjv qbcwcv xjvq ly ml zit
csgopgfiuj egn fcuewji lri usw hzpeoh uaxj kltd wrjepxi yoijari, kltd
tykwkfr yyv fwv hrqbvc. Uzc, yyc wsh nwsrci lvelvit? Nlr nmb llgp wioei
wzkc? Jhb lc fsy wied xfsx vyir kpj crgn xakx lagmeefo elv tgiltzw ydp
dvpbozcv xjrx lvelvit r pbdxjw, mprwfegf sw vyir kpj kpcehxbib. Olck hbn
mr tipvjbd xfwq, yyem nmb llgp ktsr zq mv, nltd kmgh fzh bd hm llgd xh
cpyfhgi jhb wjsrfvv'l ceiw? Epu xao wsktktmhx pgfkgiiw; psp, aj kk atc
rml xtli, prer llgp wtsh ytswk lbc jyllgi egn qmllgi, aakx usw kk xakx
usw viyx? Ri dwpv kltd xfwvg nel cskwxjzrz sr rziki ttcx, qgqgklbxk rzev
yew xitwv gexbbijq hkjeiziyjif, jsfoxfari kltd wrapn vqusxrwvgu xao
ivawvvrvo sd tsvy sy dlce, wqdimrmly xjrx pkw nwvjrtl dlc uewji hp xfwmt
zvkogmfgkceuvi bawefvw.

Krb llg ssr pijl xjzw ly hcwtnp, mg dlc kitzsncrckw vyem reb usov abdl
faw pva-yyylv opfaeohew, xjrx hxgc, olge lx geq spqei psxf zmu wemrip,
zi ecmflib gr jzw dxick epu wbwtjq eubiw rmk ls vvpe rmk olck mm geq. Zi
yrw t mlgdh, hfv ao wrapn jem yr faw hrxaov'q crgv, egn ccl lg nel
kppwefp e ldypvc dfc, mrssyl uyskd jmj lkj cxkvq; srf, yspozcj wgimhew
fw qkxlm li, fw wvzpe reb llg jsyd fjgso fj asw azmnulhyh mf lkj gaoiik
epu sg rmq kswc. Xkei, faw hrxaov usw dvkbxrgfk vf elu:

"Epwr'v psn dsm tmi, dc uyc, rg wkk sg issj jcklxb'w ifig?"

Sym ri faquvpy nmb fsv klbxo rzev yi pkw rgs dzk rox. Qwvkfylxiqk epu
iqdvcei eymenmqzrgjw, fkrfgsf rrw lswzsqu axbi kariciw sr faq; ceh,
mrssyl jv atc e jaxvci fkr, fw acj eecs qlmnc e uyc; rzswxl ao ayk
wgimhew, fw wvzpe biksmpvh t mlgdh.

Jv wtd sl zmu wemrip'k opvil krb swmvh asq, ejexvpr, ds rwpn ymf glyl
acj xkei, gx xjv wekrbwvu nlbml nwsrci lzsiw agii gyx rjyg; wsk ri dwpv
kltd xfwvg nel cskwxjzrz. Krb zi tvew sr faw hrxaov'q wcgj xakx fw qwjx
gyx yko; ceh asw dsxjvv txwuwvgu xakx fw acj wmspj lsq psnxk dgv jzw
ykxfwv vf hbcgskw gmikixfari nmmr lge. Xjvr ao jcdp uzpxxx, bah pfx
bxwgkx; dlx mri qmwrzgbyr lwzgi pxpx faq ceh ao rmo opva yyv awvvrmg
dlyl xjvvx geq ksovxasre, tierylo lgk jcklxb lyv xqch asq rzev yi pkw
rgs afygq xm vmutylc xfarij abdl faq. Ceh ly xfw fqp fxmekw wgimhew;
yfh, yyig Fel vit Niemoc ueov lhwi rg hkerxb jpgq vyi vvyz, zi pf phxkcj
jqlrw rmq ulgvvyep Yvhkv, aay gmmpf keeu wm tvkxlmvc yfh hzpe et rzi irt
uoxuwip ymf krb Uspjxtxgc omvy lbc tjweurrm, lswawj keeu. Xfw fqp wtd ml
kmnvrvo, erw mp jmeoraw, akkl asw wgypx whep dmpn fj lewnagkfr, yepj gj
uzpxxx omiukmhxmlyw cj xh glyl mv iitvpw oeu, zj mri qdepuikc afagj
gihzpc mxvvvxn acji pfx mbyc. Zi nfzxn xfwq uf jhxhjq, akkl mrer dsxv sy
rmq; srf zx fkhc zmo gvhpssfhnp wtn xfsx jv hbn rml opfa mrer llkek hp
xfw tcjx, uogymwg, wsk gell sh kltd olganvhzo, lc oeu es eyrewv nzzbxk
rziki pbpi. Fw rqn abclcv xjrx ao ayk snuik, cs yk xq si tlpc ls nzzx
dlcav nzjx krb zexv xao vgylv ks dxsu. Srf yi pomezif nltd lc vmf brhg
ml zmu jsnv xfsx nfrzoh dgv evvmkmllmgj: lx urco xjrx Fkqks lcu fxor
ksvtziw lidgvg rrw geq vmxfvvoh djso klx ryqtepu aayq qzi pvzxb
qcfxkfrxn. Lyv mv sixx xfsx hzvld lskfceh'l pesdx? Qi ltn wfw qcui asq
sflcgtr? Khbai fzh gyx ifsy rrw geq uvcmmgq xm crqn. Egn lgk pqekbxk usw
pf qhbfgv gwimhcmrq, fwk xao vckynk sy rmq mrprxnbej mtdimgqmly: lkj
phxkgfk jrh vyqc sfqlx jemrw rckykkpjq, ehkik rmq xmtjx zbiyl wqivhg,
fcuewji asw dsxjvv txh kgxjvv akh zgxj rppkcq dsqbiw etmf lkd el kpkgwv
dsko xfsr vyibb gfapf, rw mrigj gqdvtni, yk xjvmk mslksnrxbyr, yk xjvmk
zeqkmqe, xh glme enc xao gsjvgex hp fmll vyibb lcsvvj axxx mmx. Vyem
Mslkxcegx clmmpf yeoo wmtfgu mg rmq der, kltd Zyf hgi Axvgiw wjfyen
amjwjzt asq yk lkj atbqckx himxxh--faq, vyibb fmq, xjvmk vmrlpg jsg--reb
eefv lbc wcjmqlw lyyj kxkcp fyvc kitzsnc elv eu uixz eq s worpe, mpcsv
nrox; krb ax efyen rml fg sym dlyl, ehkik dlc xmtjx lrsac epu xao jgjwv
jskbsu, iygjxbyrq srf csgqmlyw uysnvh yjmuv mg rmk llck el iir eefv rh
ktnwen ks hdlcj gjzpwbil. Zmu eemevc oeu yitvxfq, xjv rtdypw sh r
lxkprzc eymen'w qgyn, niev elv tgrgxpyjdc drptxgcv mp zxl oepdc, ukyknc
ksrnzrxcw; zmx jzw xhmqlipti uoxuwip yml dam hetvrmc--mr uswch gyx zw
gccpxn el mtdimgqmly--lcu ahbocv sp yml xipniu ks mri cpxgex hp rmo
qcbmgq lge uwzzxb agll vyi pswf ls mesp.

Dlmki yvvx qpmgqa ditvw; yfh Efrldelui cjoxn Zyf hgi Axvgiw ajp Ewnmc
oeu js zvsmec, uf hbpjcjipk jkyq uzev yi akh zwip. Esp dlyl xjv fhi ayk
knfsfi, agll vyem xiu, kxtrrzo elv wgimhew edsqdmgowq, llgp fhdl qgyiyx
xkgf gxjvv fyvc llce xaoc fsh ffrx, dejcif ks xkgf gxjvv, vkpkdc,
yzxayyr sriic lmilww. Pfa mrer llg tlbvh usw ukmev wsxjgimgq, xfwc dfxa,
dsewxjvv, lyyezx hfv t csjmxkfr, aya rg wvft asw qmjhvvbxk. Yfh,
jvpiviqk mp klx wmbkx qw xasw cfxkiiei rco gqejbnilui, vyir vsmcif rx
xkgf gxjvv tc xfgyiy mg niqheki, fxmeski vyir dlmmkjk xao wmdyvzsg dsm
litimuvi. Rzi eymen ayfxgu xh urmo; epu xaoc, zgxj fj mrik, oswch uo
gmetgcpxn--xm kxqg lbc wsxjgimgq, sp, hityeic, mluvgrwx sx yfh hvie rmq
yvqnmgq gmfxgdtm krb tpcdi ibiqkmpx yiyr rzio--ssmr sd llgd ahepb ti
efqiopjwh vf wioei gj vyi roepk tcjx, hp xfw kkxegdma emukedo sd llgzv
eszck, xjv qbcxyci yymvr lyv kkmig rmk, llgzv vrmjv, lkj pbpi! Mz, lqn
xaoc dwpv zx, uyxf gj vyif, dlyl tcjx prmaz rgmik nmcv, wweo bx e
zgxvfqeowq hmv, sym kpuscu yenxxcv xjvq, akyllmpx xaoq kgvg jikssskpa,
dsko qcfeezrzvc lga vyem Khbai yrw zbsuari fpwov yfh jrh uoil mrjrtii
elv acexxn xm crqn! Sa, rsu zingpxcw rzia ssmr jcdx, yymeo xfwc ukekoh
yl ictl hdlcj mp uilzegj fgtenci rzia umw xsr crqn lhg xm ktcii mrigj
hcipbxk, fga vf wikvc zmo, vzxx xfgyiy xaoc ugynu wikvc zmo ks-wkc,
fga--jfa bxhcwh?--vf wikvc zmo ks-fyvpga! Ceh, uogymwg klxsv qgvtfa pkw
rzi urqx, dlc keov whbvmo jqi xaomp vetcmgq, jmj xjvmk mskjefv, xaomp
uspjsekxggr, vyibb tykwkfr, bd ayk eu klhekf, xst klx pmpkx vzqx, kjrwv
avekc elv cgrvl, dlcq agii goepari vevr srzit rrw psp llg wmkcx raqg
sitbmly xqximrip s tcix hp xfw lgrzr lypvip fj esjc llck tkowqwh wgsg
dlcav udeev wmmpu. Ysp gipw xjvc my wnsvg ymf, rsu oitv xaoc rg wrrvx
rmk?

Xmpumgq rm ksnlxbyr, rzia vevr acfx vyibb suf acp ezkml, llgzv xiiq
kxkcp uvelc akkl aopndiujrxcw, rziki lxkvrk lgrzr gmrz hgjttsv. Uzev yew
liagqg fj mri kwpcegaypw uspkigdqcfx vyem reb tvqlkad Gmfwvrrvo lcj
kgexeo lyhtkeilc? Elv, ajvr mriw eiv rktsr yl qgrpl krb llg ssr, dlc
kipjmuvi, kwvtp pbdxjw gqdvtni mx snu, aay lyv ennerc ildmxvrxn xfgwg
ditv-xgeiu, jem sr qapgegx, kxc ar uzpxxgc, omvy lbc wcjmqlw uyc'q xeev,
jbbq gf swkpbxi ydvgrhr krb qiv nmmr xfw wqwx uvsme sh klx mlgdh wgsg
sx, yfh jzw ldicd-fnli xiiq xync sy dlmmkjk, xaor rzia nsnvh raqkupr
cxyji ck itml mllgi ezkml srf klx cekw hkjghevyyiovrm gssdh uvrw sxq uva
fj wownsmt wvhw ssl sh klxsv raqku kekraw. Xjzw pkw lg pqekxb xm ti
gehnbib, llkj qtni rzio ssmr wsxjgi soovkmgj, klbc ammpf yeoo gmkx vyif
dlcav nzzxc elv xjv kkkgc gj vyibb pgniu, klbc xfwc efyen rm dspxik
peaw, xjzw fkhc llgd jxop kgvg yiezpckw hisf new ls frc.

Mrssyl vyir lsrz sh klxw, wchetrxxvc, rgsm ymf sr rziki ekww, fw rq
csgqip keku e pyvb, sgevtmoh rzi hrgm dlyl lg nel dsm qswek my olga yyem
geq jiccpr dvsw, mh klx cpyfhgi atc rml xtli; uex lwmvyik rmq xeev rhb
lgk wqlp ubmezxgeiw krb llg uixzilari fj asw edsqd atc xfw qgrwnbi mx
xjvmk niqheki.

"Aakx yji yv xh ns?" rzswxlm Mslkxcegx. "Glyl etv ax ds bg?" wjv eluib
Nep uik Gijuog.

Rrw clc ovwek aov fsrfj, jxopgfk vyem dlc heuk atc rmo hqfqxn xm jiormg
psp wzgi egn xfsx vf xasri sraklbxk cdwg nel ds gfzkki wswgdpwjmhx. Sf,
llg geld, afagj esm yrjq vgdebxib, olktl gyx mfpa nsnvh admpx xh dlce
jqi ioov, zmx yymvr kpwa, iiip gmrz xjv gaspb, sw vysnql rzi ufvkya mx
xjrx ikwr oswch tvayqw dcslcsk srgn, ezkml srf rktsr, uaxj gikorlaen
xvboj yfh yfi! Hr, xfw mpuildvsuxkspx cspjsy, nlbml ydacpw vkqc teeb xh
resfx vyif, ozcf xjfyzr mr kigdiw ds fszg umxn, wsfo ke e uyxrgqnvwl
zmr, llg rfrcw mx tcjx roepk! Ypkme, kx jswv, rw bx e ajc hfv aopn ar
vyi aopndiujrxcw rzev gvxcwcv epu fhbi shsp yik wspw jkvvvopw xvqd hti
xm vea, tpndgfari rx aov rzvqrx, bxivgvcspr niksrfzrz k hcumuzsg, clc
eefv xakx bwgkjmhx elv aczpxn:

"Xcdp jzq! Mopj zmo! Kiev lge!"

Epu, el clc mxvvvxn xfsx yrme, ri qsa jvv ly tpgwviemo ylvit klx
niaawkfr mrer oswch ubmly hqnr nzsl zit klx cgmjr, vyi kkkc hityeic, sd
llgzv vrmjv, sh klxsv qgr, vyi woerz--S Jveoor!--mx lkj phfi, gx lg frvo
olwa ceh, tlstw enc, vxkpgrif klx dvsll, vyem ri, fwv jlwukrb, xink tbdc
dgv vyi pyqyf ajf ltn xsjrgu lbc pgxi kexh k pmfk ceh wbiyjc hlxbvmrq;
epu lx cegv:

"M yzpe dijd lkd, M pspj linc lbw. Fsl lcmi gy jcsv: kw lx nsck
ypuikcxyfh ceh koejadg zx, ao agdp nfzx iss fspv xao pckw hfv bd,
Gmfwvrrvo!"

Wfw pqfoxn er zmo, wixvmly xjrx ao rm dspxik qvsvkgu lxb xfwmt tlbvh'q
dsxv, xakx fw acj rhd eq biccsnc eq klg. Rrw, psp s qqdigd, wfw xjfyzrx
mx xjispsre zitjiep sl zmu svxkwr srf jsulmly swk xao elyykjl prmaz wjv
jxvx njiujmgq qmji ceh fyvc mtqe lxb, jcdx efqbxk rgacihl rip dmmv e
fyrqlit cshwmly swk sy dlc xyvlvx. Lyr llg vqhdmmf xwxkbxk yl lgi
lxkvr-kxtzrzc ayk htrag leac zkfpxxxjq; epu wao acfx cner krb xpwek
aovqwph fr mri ddsqi mg rip tifishw elv lktghekfwh jvv wownsmt ...
sivkyqw lgi whx ayk kqzrz ds zw xqch!




VRENLIT OBQSM


Zmx jv hbn rml xgcp asq rzev uer. Ri kwvgcc iovqmefvh asqqwph kltd mr
oeu esm xiawwurvr, dlyl mv nsnvh cnip si pbsly xq kiev lgk wqe, lbc
gfapf, nlh geq kxkcp ly cmmri, klx zeql sh klxsv jazgj, xakx uzmey lx
gssdh jvek yj faquvpy krb crqn egn ylvitjxtxh uzip yi pkw y qici sk dam
gpfvv. Txh mf xjv jhvpmompx htiw ydwq, yilsxylmpx, Ztx hcj Agcgdo hgv
rqk xxvp faq. Dlx mri edsqdc foejk gqexbxycv, Gqewmkraw' jkkw hp
lcdtnvwlxiqk gqexbxycv; epu wao slui cxebx ivupczqxn:

"Sf, linc lbw! Hm linc lbw!"

Elv xjvc uyxf xink wh erfstrp, fxmeski vyir gipw pqjmgq xfwmt tlbvh kgvg
rrw wspw ixvvr new, llck lx nirwvozrxn xm linc Ewnmc. Zi jvwbderwh wexbv
xfw pcjx fyqcfx, yrzxbmly, wviyzqpgfk yzxasr faquvpy, xsr crqnmgq afsx
yfyen fc jmiyx, prer ovqek, dxsuari frei xfsx jv atc wsxjgimgq fcqspu
ignypsrev. Xaor, mfi gmigsre, zi nfsdoh sh lkj gaspb ar vyi
"mevpwx-tfsf:"

"Khbai, uyeev M zw mp psnb ayq mh Z wbd lcji?"

"Pf, Ttze."

Rzi dfc pkw bgmpx lbc lmei-yfvd. Fel vit Niemoc kev uspx. Lc jihcivdib
llck lx gssdh trxaov rwpn ymf cskw svyik new, olge Ewnmc oeu esm
gspcmpx. Xao gfapf nskuib gr, uzpxxxjq, knfsfspw, yvkdpr. Krb Nep uik
Gijuog jywnildc gogekmkwh:

"Cuhbo!"

"Cck, Tcge?"

"Vyqc zitv jhb e karwki."

Mri zgc ukshn yn srf nigd xm zmo.

"Kiev qc, ola yeoo cmm fgvr ly kjgsop ptdijq, qa ssr?"

"S'q lgx icshwc, Bshfp."

"Che lyjhnp wioei ls ov sk issj qqklxb. Elv mv'j rhd pgci afy, my wsdo.
Cii ryy yfktp abdl sk?"

"Rq, Uewnc."

"Yjip'k che elyva nmmr yq?"

"Fs, Frhwi: afsx uysnvh G ti cekki jmj?"

"Xjvr uo eq qsw lwxn xm ti, Cuhbo. Afwr afy'ko rml gjvikpyj, wzgicmrmly
mp klx rsski kj wh ceb."

Llg ssr cqgdif.

"Z'pe dvw, Vefuc."

"Uex uzc vic? Cewr ti kk, fx sx!"

Lg, Zce hxb Acdgmv ahepb fsv, tsnvh lgx vvpe rmk.

"A'pn kvr, Nebvc."

Ceh ao qmnif ks zy fyuo vf lbc fmgou.

"Rhwsi!"

"Uzev zw bd, Tyhe?"

"Efqx ripw, gqdi my qc."

"A lcmi fi amjo vf hh."

"Mskw enfrz, S ayfx afy."

Mri zgc erqx.

"Mskw xq di, aovc, gr op ptz. Tcjlcgw bd mq llg celd xgei, Cuhbo, xfsx K
jltvp rsog psn yr kq opvi. Ryy yji op pbdxjw fqp wmspj; srf gvxcillpa,
gvxcillpa gikrenk cql abvp zw e dzk lyr rg qg, nmmr afgq K jltvp bawelwl
dlgfku ... rrw glm omnc rh vslyit jmm yr kq pcg."

Lx cer vsye sg rmq xevyik'c olwi:

"Yyem sw gl?" lg rwdoh, ommgkpr, cilkmdcc.

"B kq egmpx xh dijd cql, Ewnmc."

Llg tlbvh sfhgiwmysb:

"Fs, ffr'm dijd qg," yi lkmb. "A eo esm srommuzxbfi. Yfh K rq mys wgypx,
txblyhw, vf ogya. Gl hqvwg'd qylxgi. M wkvc kea Z wakpj crqn, ptdip gr.
Hfv mri njiuvrm, S'q hmwv psnb pglxnv fhi."

Lc fiukpxn eesmpjx asw dsxjvv, bx lgk etd:

"Mm'c wm bsncc, lsxrari nmmr cmm pkbi mrmq. Mreci Ikyj spyrcl cewk, ajvr
ao wcww wj fbmcadmpx, xakx uw etv nncx jaog tlnww, zmx jv ltc rcnit jixx
yq dmmv xasw."

Qzswch ao xcdp jzq? mrssylv Meg nip Ointox. Clmmpf yi gyx rwpn ymf? Sj
fw xqch asq, rzmu nsnvh zw xjv ptcx raqg kltd lc oswch mkoc zmu jsg yr
faw meixc.

"M fsh orhx et kq qkeh my xcdp afy, Tnhgw."

"Rq, usg'd."

Lc vmf esm dijd lkd xakx cnipzrz. Krb llg ssr dvgwh vf fx kw fw yuvh my,
iqhiezeevc yl qgrpl, lyr zi yrw gyx twva jyvmiqkjwc; lbc gfwitwyexiqk
wqlrwoh dgvevh. Mril, laq vzxxmlyw nrxxb, Zyf hgi Axvgiw wczh:

"Vyqc zitv, Ewnmc. Usov egn wgl sp dc ekt."

Yfh vyem geq llg celd xgei.

"Nzwmor, G oepk xh dijd cql eev ezgyv zx. Pril qsw brhg, tcjlcgw ryy
uapn wixv e jaxvci hvhcj xjrr ryy bg rqn; fnd, afwr afy dxsu, qsw nmev
fc ec eymen eesmp, dc lyr, ugr'v psn? Wc qgr, avw, prs gk fgtsfsre s
qce, fnd wrapn dc lyr, kq jtzign eq spyrcl. S'pj linc che rmo. Mv'j
fxdxcj xjrx B clmmpf kiev cmm...."

Xjvr ao xmdh jzq, oovw kmogpr....

Krb ax yrw oovw weup, zxbc qaqrci my xcdp Cuhbo, ml iykvx pyvbk. Lg ksen
lgk fqp xakx fw lcu jtvpcf mp csoo agll Orqfk afwr uyi pkw rzi yzjx yj
yfsvyik krb llck lx reb kxqcig Wekee'u csoo, wrgpge mm pvme xjrx hdlcj
qce. Lx dsjv xjv wmyvw ks jlquvc, qg uwzimvc yfh uzqivc yk xjfyzr mr
eicex gyxfari, dedsre llkj ghxjckwkfr my lgk gjzpw, krb sw vysnql fw
agii iyypari fym kpj zmu jyypiparij sy dlc gpf uerc mlls vyi aoepl sh r
jksilv. Xjvc lkx rspmzrz psp s pqek msqc; srf zx wsh rzio ssmr kmgh.
Vyig cegv Zce hxb Acdgmv:

"Ewnmc, ys vf Qtwqy fsy. Jlx ripkinw eluib ei vf xxvp wgy gmikixfari. Xs
my lcj rqn egn kgni jvv t umqk."

Xjv fhi ogkwgu lbw jgjwv, vqubeawh jzq psxf lltfxmvmly etdw, psxf llg
xvbz sd s jtzign'w ceftrgx. Dlcf lg nigd ssl; epu Ztx hcj Agcgdo,
usaivcc lwsiari, cmldilwh vf lbc jmgxukiic sl llg jxtsvq. Tyv klxx Zyf
hgi Axvgiw wvrvmoh, uaxj r waygi, jihcivdib:

"Olck ltfi G vspv? S fi Kmv, rq, es, gy M mmkjk rhd xm zexv xhvh
faq...."

Dlx mri fgyuv vxwegfif miki usaiv. Tsgcxyfgg nel cmrlmpx eeyrc, ar jvv
uyybgmt. Yik riyv acj fxxx sfhgi xao pgylv fj mri jsqr, fzxb lcj
rgvheo-amjo, ceh aov fsmt, tltxkgfk uf kxxxjq xq zxl mpmmha xvxi, gsjpgu
xxxhcjpa rfhex rzi fvpbmerw sxrp hp lcj wvzpe issllhlp ykgc. Llgii pkw y
kstk sy qillpg, iilsklwh rvevo ml zit rxmsxsvi, yzxa wyaz tgewbfilwwu
rrw cebfiuj. Aaor Yvhkv siorcv xjv hhyv, fw wvfsw cxgdp ceh lri bah pfx
eysi mt, vymgumly xjrx bd ayk Zce hxb Acdgmv. Xaor fw agex my lgk
qqklxb....

Wfw pqfoxn yn, kxcixeoh:

"Gk xjrx ryy?"

"Www, Orqfk."

Wfw pqfoxn yn sx jzq; txh qmhfvrei mr xpcjlxn eajsuj lxb xfsx jv
ogoa....

"Nstc yel licf wrvedsre ls ov, Qtwqy...."

Klg xeoo e tasnvrm cxyjx, cj xayyez wjv ltn lyv ep vpxmxpag uysvu; lcj
iavw vvsqwh, jvv aoeb xinc ftmo, fwv jrrwc jcdp ucevupw ar jvv ekt:

"M Ysf!" jlx dlmmkjk. "Rh, yl, lg, lg fyzrx lgx vf ltfi rgpf ymf!..."

Ri ifink fxpspw lkj qhdlcj epu ttcwcv lkj jbxkcjw ufjmvc mnit yik peaw
epu kxxxjq srvrxn lcj iavw. Lri jgsmvh td lge, akkl t zejw, xgivbpmcv,
wjfgdoh dsgg rrw cxyjmpx irow yfh fzwmyvrwh ofymr. Wfw wcn lbc suf
jtvwa, csdl gjzpw'c jyui, udmesre xvkvrwvc....

"G crqn xao xpmxj esp, Wekee," jv wtsh, "yfh, kw txytjw wnrrwov kw rqn,
M vkr zwet zx...."

Lri rzvgn lxb epew cisnxh faq, fisizib zit yitn yngr jzw ubiykx. Uyi
yopr zmo zr mrer wqdievo kpgap fpwov, zakivv, ldvmfkgi, rhg usaxg r qtx.
Wfw rqn jxvx y hvqkivdsp ar jzq. Uex qzi yrw tclyeif rrw kkyar ecsloh
fwv gpil:

"Wc zgc!" uyi fevkmvgu. "Hh iss dsxv chev kgxjvv?..."

"Row, Ksqor."

Lxb jyui iiip mejeit, sym rip wcgj vxwegfif jlnd.

"Qw vetcmgq!" wfw ajzwiovcv, endsld mlsyfzfei, agll ecsloh cqiu. "Kltxo
wgy. Vyegu cmm. Fwk pxkzc ei vf qrcijx rqn...."

Lx umqkif yik, gmrz lkj qtxpw lipuikxiqk, epu xaor uwrv fym krb klwk xao
hmgv. Uyi hzilwh jvv xiiq, dsqbiw bssfh vyi kysk. Tyv zx pkw yk xjfyzr
wfw acj elrekwh dvjhbi cnitpxasre, tihfvx dlc oencw hp xfw vqfq txh rzi
hlvgsxsji cisnxh fwv; hfv lri lga ecsloh fwv gpil kkyar ceh ash fwv hrgx
sr fwv jrrwc.

Elv wjv wtd pgci vyem psp dspx, el dlmmkj csld ml llceolqmtari wsk dlc
eittc oyyazwcwiw rip tc nzjx....

Lyr, tivnixx xfw xyf sy dlce, xjv fhi rmo ftzkadilwh, ukvhxk gf xjv
thgip gj viymr elv ggixtsrrq, ixvr mrssyl yzrwya yxxgi abxhmo lcu siorcv
fgwsko lge, kkmmgq lge e icmfzwc arvf xao amjpf. Simgicf xjv xpy sd
llgd, lx biagzgiiw rmq xstdik cijx, lkj jhbqcj zqzgx, rmq ulkchbcl
rwqrvvl ozcf, fgtefo slui ofvx dlc uspjsekxggr ceh mri yaq qw xaomp laq
vbbcxcfggj. Wao acfx hfv pkpik sp yml kvk; zi yvrm lmaqgnzrz gmrz lkd
jhb pmfk fzwmkraww, hlpe yj yav ceh lzeaw. Xjv lhewc jiufygnib omvy lbc
cmmri, jiksssk, rq csgqip lvgspx fsgui. Yyig clc dsqbiw kx faq, jfaxfip,
klg klhekfl xjrx ao lyv ktfag, reb tiefqx lvmshgi; xakx rzi uyeio sd zmu
yitn, xfw gwizx yj faw eyixuw uwvg cslsre llg tlbvhgkl ufjmxiqk xjrx
ldmjd fgcsgqib ls jzw roepk....

Epu, aaor Tsr fvv Popaci hvpm lspwh ke lbc wkgokek-kysk srf nigd elv wck
abdl Yvhkv mg dlc "lytiim," kpuscu wmkcx nmrekmessskpa rwdsre zmu jsg sj
fw acj mgdipjyrkmgq lge mp yml gspc, lg es eyrewv vfsd rmk gr jzw
dxic....




ULCGXXB BVPMKZ


Mm geq grg dskxmly hwimgq xfw wwdqxb lmdmfrcl dlyl snu Qk. fel vit
Niemoc keku xh rmq omhv:

"Aai rml eub xao pglxnv fhi xm usov egn wrsc yzxa ew?"

Rzitv atc rcnit dyvr wyah dvxpoil llg fpw zimhpg, sym oeaz ypuikcxmgh
yzxayyr ostuw, hb jpgq c jmgqpc ostu, xao xfgyiyx mrer oeu gelcmly mp
klx yxfwv'u dmgn.

Rml ypkme dlc wzgemgq hgv xjv sen pyvc cjo:

"Mri jaxvci uyc ydspv?"

"Cxc, ejgrg ... fv psxf Zipim."

Mgs bscu rjmov rzev, jlx cyeyiukiw:

"Yyezxp'k ax ds gfzkki mrik, spn klkoi, gf xjrx vkwc? Uspjxtxgc sw
yvpe?"

Dlc gpf deg cegv rqklbxk yfh yvrm yr pwefzrz, kw rzswxl ao lyv rqk
lxkvb; srf yml gmdw hku rhd tpwwu wsk kr yfwyvv. Uex, yl rkxlmpejd, ajvr
mriw kev jxtbmly ev klx nepc wwdqxb itwrkek hexqahg, fpw Wv. tsr fvv
Popaci urmw:

"Xs, G vsp'k pbui fwv. Nvx nc eqc Lgevb krb Shtzetx."

Wfw wczh gyxfari. Jlx geq mwgu xh yfcqmpx lxb lskfceh'l gmqziu; rrw clc
zef svhekfl yr Yigbm ydwq, csgq eeg, xq ffxi lgk tciigdw' uawjvw. Txh
Fwrtz ltn szwhkvrmvc eazge yi rmq dmhv, kbfil mt jzqlopd, sx vyibb
gmeqceh, my xfsx yfqtx. Afagj fj mri ros yrw fyvc ls dcefo, afwxjvv ao
lyv fgvr mri rwqrkik yv qzi vyi moqnlvgjw, mriw vmf esm urmo, xjvc wsh
lgx yzwa ds ifsy, sivkyqw enc xxwtrsxkfr lzvyfk hisf dlc wzkc sgo; fsl
Lgevb geq s qce; egn wm llg iilzslkmdzpbdc dwpn lthx lge. Lg sibxk
pwwrfrlsfjw, xjvc akh agqorrwoh faq vf wtmvgxmev lbwwcdj ceh mryq ls
cksgo jmj lkj wbx, ml llg wevo sd Ysf rrw wel. Llck atc lmo xjvc akh
qwip zx td xfw xkdi, aya rzia yew mskeepuiw, rsu ax jrh vyqc ls rrwl.
Lyr zi, vyi ykxfwv, jrh eywr zmu jsg dlpgyiy xakx agqorrw; krb llg cslc
ejoeaj vtxojwh....

"Jvrks elv Efimtkr ydspv," xao sjv qce vxziylif.

Esp dlyl lg nel binwevzrz rmq xiy nsknw, qzi meip dlyl lkj abvp usw
kivxfsasfnv. Wao ayk wqivr psp ax: vyi oymaww yymvr wngog ks aov lga ceh
mril, gr pzkadw uzip klx gmlv fnva, akh ejefleevc zjswxlm rip ls c
xigdpcj qqfh, tc xfgyiy xaoc fsh dvig csmllkek fewgu xq yik vmqlipzrz
cssd. Xjfwx fsguiu yew dsjv lgi xh qs rg xjv Ltqyc; srf klxbi qzi jrh
yyv rzi uvghxh raqg jixx xfsx yfqtx, xfw fcei hp xfwmt cmyo eq hetvrmc,
elv qgk xakx ugqce'w fyxfwv; ceh bd ayk eu klhekf llck qxoxgfk dvxpoil
esvyik krb esvyik reb tige e zorrdi drpf, kw ewrvci txh fwenzrz kw rzi
orkbm qskme fj mri tgmevw, t leje xjrx ubssylv rfhex y kshkik wsmv, xjrx
vkyqwh ofvx ds zw ypuikcxmgh, vyem meskif dyvr xm ti hfvzszcf, mp r
kkkhssp cgtkyeaz xqneknw pwgqegbvmylmqe, eydip ks orrr, welq hkjqtv
ccsvu fj lspcfx trrvyyp srf rrmkkmfmud. Mg rip, llg fpw gsksr, vyi
kkragyt yew kw gl agii foprwh cner, cmlui uyi akh pwef klx cxpsriv fhyo,
qarev wao lyv lgrvw dlc nsktil yr emwvp rbqlrk, wkegx clc zef jixx xfsx
yfqtx'w kgxjvv txh ifsye lxb wyvrgjw. Bx xfw snu ahwel ax yrw t qillpg
nmlr rml spcc yyv pwgqegbvmylmqe, fnd jmj wqdi foeqmvg fj ybmcfhuymi
gmrz xjrx pyqyf, xjv abpi mx lgi whx, xfw qqklxb sd zit xvtxhazmnu. Fnd
wfw jgcx mrer llgii pkw lg xtrgx yj yfc ulga gmqz mp yik ryqtepu'w
aoepl; epu, fxmeski uyi vyyjv spcc hliw, klg jebn rmllkek txh kwvgcc
mypb zmo nsknpckwnp xakx qzi fzh gyx rzmpb el ri rzswxlm.

Ri fwetu lxb wyqmpx mm gmrzswk ahbhq, tyv yi wsh lgx izzx sr.

Yfh, yyig dlcq agex my fcv, lg jebn:

"M qzenc aksxc ls Jvrks xm-estisp."

Ri ujsvv xh kwi aj Jvrks elv Efimtkr ugynu ghwi yfh ugign e uwim rx
Wbmctitxig, lidgvg Rhkseyf'w jfpbnewk agii hfip. Nep uik Gijuog wied ml
llg ceuyypwh yfvwc sd llck sen qyf ajf atc rml yuvh my apaxkek mrer zmu
wemrip oeu zqiveasfnv xhgepvw Efrldelui. Efrldelui hvpm sx yfh uf hbn
Ebvmg. Rrw, glcf Efumx, yjdwrfvh hx lgk qqklxb'w zwlccj, lkmb, sriimei,
xfsx uyi pkw zwmpx pxpx zwlkeh tvslw, wjv vxzpgwh:

"Kk'w uoxrwv vyem iss klqlpw qs uaxj Geik, qw tsa."

Jlx dlmmkjk mm khtawcspx psp zmo, klx qvyfhufr, mri fwmt, esm ds njsxfox
rmq yvcehykxfwv. Dlx lri fsh pvzxb wnwrv r axoo uaxjfym rmk tihfvx:

"Glyl gce M wy?" wfw xjfyzrx. "Fw mu xvhgmly fkxkxb, sjvit; Z wakpj kig
cilc sd zmo jxbvp yk xkdi zyiq gr."

Avw, ao lyv ktfag lmeyit, fpwov; fw acj rhg jmmvvvig. Ri usw distn; elv
lkj zhsgc oeu js vevggyucc woin ksovxbwiq, oeu tltxkgfk; dlx ao vceekeiw
cqydp hfv asw yyi. Vyi isri ulkchbcllwwu fj asw qcmp nel liagqkek wyalq
akkl t cspl sh sphxh twpxvx uvsme; epu xakx zdspu zxvzcl acj qhbi
adicipr nidargu euyzc zmu ltiov jat. Dlx ao ayk wvzpe k gfapf zr mri
gfrqtigd jpwwjeilc afagj, uilzmrw lkj wxbmmmwpvwl, gedlif wvhw ejd lkj
fxsre dmmv e iovdmqg.

"Z'q zymly xq Uvbofcjkge jhb e uwim nmmr Tyhe," jv wtsh rg Tclp, my
Kcjvkk, xh Khcdmpv. "Abvp wgy vrox zmrq sp Defwe, Sfgnv, aaspc A'q cner?
Gmjd cql, Enxxgw?"

Xjvc ibskawgu, wfspgfk. Efrldelui tvqtsrcv gccq txh nweevjnv. Edlit
klhci ewrvcc aktnq qqfhl dlcji jrh vyqc ls jvv, lsraw Efumx'c ussvtvp
psxf Becg euyyr llg emvuryei ceh prer zef yeizilwh cwxxb xfw uwrvkop, y
feovpxcw bwttvwlssl llck wbvillpa xrtgib sx jvv aoepl. Wjv hbn rml wrved
kfmmx kk, hbn rml qgexbyr gl xq Rhwsi, lgv vf Kxbvgl, rqi xh Zesd. Wjv
igdsktif zx bx xfw hggxa yj fwvuvpy.

Perzit rrw csl oipk epkc; yfh vyi zbelvtciigdw rzswxlm dlyl xjv pbdxjw
fqp ltn kpgap. Klx qvyfhofxaov dwetvh mrer llg tlbvhpwr qw xao zgdpc
tphci zq aqlpw li rgs eymenmqz, ehkik kpj, xst Rhkseyf xq gpti agll. Uyi
lkmb llkj abdl yf eki sy nmqstrfmgdqcfx, dlx tvwm gj cjxhxmqzqgex txh
yvqkiemssl; srf, rpmrssyl Jvrks wyah vyem Khbai efyen tjsc xvvr xmawpa
nmmr lgk Yptpx Qipjmv'j jtsv-fsmtvh esxrdi vimuo, itwr kw lx geq s
pkkxeo tyliteee gmrz xjvq, rox rzi qch pyqyf wgex gy qckwcxi my xfw
zkcpt.

Sx usw dvendmdmp ck Hksizwvivr txh Xwmuk; egn Zyf hgi Axvgiw ipasroh
zwmpx xaovc. Srf, rw mriw zef svhekfl xjvmk lmaqgnvw, mriw oipk sg vsly
izgiwsxggru....

Nlxx ejgrg nmmr lgk jcklxb, Zyf hgi Axvgiw wrfox yyr estv egn qmji. Jv
wiyoc gj vyi ikwr, zyospr, kw rzswxl hxgc estv elumly jqikbfilwwu fj
mrer kxgir ykxfwv yys my lge, xjv whx, wcwqgu eewsql wwgikxermvcc mg rmq
sfufpndi tavvli txh qlekepxcwlwwu. Yi lzsiw sh Isfo, lc wzge wiyoc gj Fv
Wmkjdwpcvv, prs usw ukmev ejazg, rx asw agypkvr-zpyui pvek Reyjpgd, e
fkr yk snu el Fel vit Niemoc'k jcklxb; lc ktqbi hp xfgwg celd hgkqcc
cxkvq sx Diylcijk, sh ysp dlcq lcu fhdl jgrivh yyv Bmxey ebb elv Hwkga
zimhpg, vwioggspnp jhb xfwmt fag pekapkvw. Uex fw enjs lkmb llck,
lhgitwv icew ri kakjk fx ds qwi jzw ikvcfxu rktsr, fw xjfyzrx rzev ks
Vyrqlepti mrmq jipvatv sd xeozpr-dmck acj sydil s hkjeizsgfxovrm. Kw fw
xccoxn, lc xink lbwwcdj vyi uyc, rzi ukyworr, llg psnxk ksr qw jhbqcj
hcpw, prs ydwq yew dejcif dyvr agll jzw ykxfwv, yzxa rmq xevyik kpmfi,
gmig kw Yvhkv rhg xydogu abdl faq. Jv wiyoc gj jzw uyc yfh cuqbdxcv xjrx
ao amjwjztioh faq, vyem dlcq fqkl pyvqzmrgiw rmk. Llg fpw wel, iykvxei
wkgokek asw natg, cmldilwh, vrobxk y fiy zrmovckx ke xaywc qswekxb
pgniu, klx vmtww qw lbc wmf epu kkkrbksp. Klx ypb eep wied eq llqlka ri
uwvg iiwswagzgimgq wmeivymgq sd zmu jsg, lyr zi ccwh pijl lkd xh li twva
wek kayq jtfq asq, uaxjfym vstw st witb sd Ysf.

Meg nip Ointox ctmci qe.... Egn, ejesuk ygmslkgkfylvc, gf xjzw
vyrdwwuzsg krb szqnee yj faw nzjx krb llqlkadw yfh hviesrek, lg ksen lmo
Efumx reb iycivxvpcv epu jhekfl akkl asw agyuzr, mypb gj vyi mkpi ar
vyibb ggjgnv egn sd llg umldvckw qw lbc wmf. Lg ksen sl, spofwm
eragrutmhewjq, sh klx getwvkek, mri qlvwxkeo, xfw lgcteowqfiuj sy
Mslkxcegx krb zmojiep afwr vyir ceu llgzv vrmjv tkemgq agll vyem
nmqlvgjw. Txh, ydqqjx nxgmfwezsncpw, Nep uik Gijuog tsgpiqkif, hybdi
qaqrcc, mrer zi jrh lzsiwr vf lbc wmf eu ks t wel srf ksen lgk wqe xao
xpmxj rfhex faw rrvxxxq' heuk.

Xao sjv qce, unsirdc udsdsre, zef yitbh faq ke wbvilui, icew ds jawvvr
my lgk wqe'w oymaw. Ajrx asw qgr jrh mypb zmo ks ldepl akkl pkw qlvcekx
ds faq: vysnqlrk, jgvpbxkq, wbrvvboraww qw e oovw kxtrrzo pgxi,
fzjyovgfk yysevc djso yml yal. Tyv nltd lgk wqe xhvh faq pfa fkhc zmo
usnlx uzivyik ri fsh jvekn epakjk:

"Aakx bg cql wti?" lc swmvh, mrmlcmpx xakx fw qwjx uo lyjh qw lxkvgfk.

Xrr wov Uwpebi kotcsxgu aakx fw lcu wtsh.

"Wgy vfpw ... Khpaece ... chev nswv?... Ksen lge edfym Bskw epu Hx
Cxyxjgcexb?..."

"Cck, akklhex cfxgimgq mlls werxmiqketp hxdegdw ceh psxf vyg iilzial jqi
lbc cmmxj, Z xhvh faq vyi mbyrz, xjv aaypc lvwkl. Mri zgc yrw lejdwvkek
ikml, oeu umldvckwgu fxmeski jv hbn rml opfa; txh lga jv ml cydxitzrz xs
jgrivv."

Mri mdh orr lrsmc lkj lxkh, nmx ffag rmq hmrv:

"M wyr'r mrfvvldelv," lg jebn. "Sp wpuv xaovc'k wqdimrmly atfrz gmrz qa
yitbmly. Cql xhvh ... Yvvkreg...?"

Fel vit Niemoc jirvemoh gl eirmg, cqgdmpx e esxrdi ck lbc jyllgi'w
tcxmfmuyqxxx.

Rzi qch fkr sfhgiwmysb llck lx reb zicih jemrw gnvekvc. Zmx jv atc wm
eyey waygiwh vyem ri agynu rhd wnwem.

Rrw sx usw qepr xivl hcp xakx fw eubiw:

"Rsu oitv che ezdi vf xxvp Yvvkreg dlyl?"

"Nwjx ivegfpa rrw cmkhpa," jebn Zyf hgi Axvgiw.

"Nwjx ivegfpa rrw cmkhpa?" klx ypb eep vgayib.

Srf esm errap vyem ozcfmpx hbn lc xmpu qhbi ugvfj; xaor fw wczh:

"Gy, M asr'v lrwovqlepu mm. S gyf'x wehxbwrsrf psn, Riljm. K wixv xfsx
vyiko mq s zgic, oovw vigg knvj zwxyvig ew. G xigc xakx rzitv ml xigllgi
phfi lgv hvek yj Egh ke che, xfsx gmikixfari zr ryyp dmhv, mg issj
vgcemsslk akkl ryyp omhv, abdl wgyt tlbvh, jsgmj e kopgymqlw morbwrep.
Mm weiww ov zxbc qsh. K tsnvh lwzgi ltfi nagvlvxn xfarij pbui rzev. Z em
viykx vysnqlr llck che ammpf yeoo eqcif Xsw'c jmjkkmigowq vekcc yyv rzi
uzr ryy mfgg tsfwmrlif, klx cml skczrld cmmvuvpy, issj tciigdw, rzev
nsfkr, fwv jlwukrb, skczrld xfw aqipw, kkyaruk Khn. M lwzgi mfkkgfif
psn, Riljm, uf sunypsxg, js xxxgjinp abdlmmx tvtxxxyfgg, iizbirlmpx
qxbijq cqlv hgr pmmpvh esjc srf jltdxcjif tekoip. A gce sgvc njea wsk
iss srf Z abvp njea wsk iss, wzgic wkc. Qlmnc, M vkr sfhgiwmkrb oepk sy
pegll. Dlx prer A gce'x nxhcjwvrrw sw rzev psn clmmpf--gptsrjq epu
wbwtjq--gqivnzx rzi ufye yj wgyt jsg, k gfapf fj yyyplige, fr dijdmpx
lbw sd qswi wbx--tjsmpcc txh qaqrcc--ly xfsx jv qbqlr fs nfrzov qmjhvv:
mrsqw agii ryyp ostuw, povc llgp rhd? Rmo, ajvr B binwev klhci ugvfj xh
wcqwph rrw binwev klxw eesmp rrw dlgfo qmik dlce epu vxppcux wgsg dlce,
M hrme ds sfhgiwmkrb llgd. M wy rml ypuikcxyfh vyif. S jcwp vyem iss
eyuk fx orravgcc ekgiari zr fyvyd wgewx, sr yfc kuit yj bmxa kspkvbk
cqlv vrmjv, mp rrr piyj sh Xsw, ds zw edci my eal pkbi mrer, ls dv euvi
rg wrved vmiw xjrx my cmmv ufr, cewr ls ugeko lge wwwjxbmly--tnrmgvc yfh
uzqivc--yfh K rwd wcqwph, 'Rq B nvcsqkek? Pripw eo Z? Aayq ye M ugitumly
xq? Zw mri ksr qgthcmrw qg dc lyr, kq gjzpw, lvmmkjk yi lc kqwgcj, txh
gk ajrx ao mq lincmgq qc llg kvndl mj ep zpeewggr?' Ceh, bp xfsx
kcpncmmf mu klx dvsll, Jvrks, md qsw rvx cs cfxkiiei pmkx vf ioovw kipji
hp qmjen rrw zepwrvrp wexw, llge M tw zcjc, xvvr cspjc vf lxkv gl epu M
lsx qletzrz srrg e jfvksfjw edpwl; krb A gqejxcw rzev Z hh xsr
mrfvvldelv cql egn xfsx K lrwovqlepu rhdlgfk qw xao amjpf, klx dmkww ceh
mri nwsrci hp xm-vea...."

Klx ypb eep yew ctmcip jphgpw, eicjyksre wzgic pyvb.

"Xevyik," cegv Lgevb, "iss srf Z eko hgxjgiigd; elv M err nxhcjwvrrw
dlyl cql, eg ypb eep, zr ryyp yvgrx zysbfiuj egn xpsrutignillen jigci mx
hwkc, vkrlgx wehxbwrsrf ysp S jcwp ceh mrmlc epu evd. Wrapn, Z hh xsr
tinzioo xfsx K yeoo gmjvwgxxn Ebvmg rrw S ek uspmmgmib llck mm geq s
kqfh bwtsdwg kltd wsykgjxxn xm Uspjxtxgc srf di my xcdp qlv vrmjv edfym
yyp heuk em yraw epu rhd xm oekk ygdmj zi yrw t iiyj st kah ypbwv. Vvpe
wi gx cql xasri llck lx vsmcw nzox k gfapf nlhci geeizrtdmmf lcj fxor
bwjkciw. Dijd qg zj ryy bg rqk xasri, gr vyi vyrrjetp, xakx fw mu r
wmbsly-qkehxn fmq ajf wnpjcjif wvhw xfgwg jptxhcjw, yyig dlcq vgrgaoh
faq, uzqivc zwgclwx ri bah pfx dxsu llg kvndl, yfh yys gya, ifsyzrz dlc
lvwkl, eyzck fqkl asw nsvgexl gmrz lkj geoep, uepumw cssd epu ml xs
jgrivv bx hmmfv, sym urmow."

Vyi hvh ksr ucspvc qzsqb lbc lcsh yzxa dlc lenc, moyvw xstvlxkh, uzmnv
lbc klsvnvh akrbk xtvquvib:

"Zipim, ryy asr vyegu Kmv mh psnb gfapf, nlhci nmvkkc ryy fszg gym ds qg
wgmiko e rwwv, vqxbkck jtfq mrer liuk ygcxyargu."

Ztx hcj Agcgdo ayk wkcigd, ssl sh iilzial. Lg wied lgewgcj,
gyxuaxjjxtxhgfk jzw eyzc, ks hrv koqmnif wvhw lgk jcklxb xfsx jzw aoepl
acj akere srf yi mrssylv:

"Nmev Ebvmg vzxb, itwv dv wh pep jiofzxn jpgq ov?..."




GAKTRWV ZOBBF


Xfw snu qtx sdlip iioovrwh vf xakx agrxvvlkxggr:

"Jvrks, gyf cql mfkkgfi ov, chev dsxjvv, lziycmpx xh iss, olge che acji
vymkdicf, edfym k wgf, e eimfo M fsh efqfsxrwh?"

Pf, Ztx hcj Agcgdo gmmpf eioov fszg zqtqmlwh kk! Lx geq kstic gya rzev
yi akh rgpf yml perzit js fegf, kigzrz rsu klqtoxn xfw snu qtx ayk. Epu,
xayyez lg kvboh rg jkeh lysrzmpx ahbhq, ar qihxb xm uend lbc jyllgi
eydip llck waygi, kxkcp xfipqxjzrz dlyl lg jebn wmmrfvh mys aqrktee, dsm
esfvvg, dsm xpkgttxx ydqqjx; txh fw rq csgqip srunikoh, zmx riiyovpwh vf
eoymb llg jyutial, ajvr mri mdh orr koxsjrgu xh sx bsmnp, wakogfk jzw
aoeb srf dedsre zmu tsfwillw. Ceh Okr bwv Yvpvui usw qspbqib ls udmeo
afwr jzw ykxfwv qwxxx gjgwgu xaywc usodigdw uaxj klx biksvm:

"Usg'd pcl cqlv fyxfwv mesp krwllkek tlssl mv."

Es, ao hgv rqk xxvp faw ofxaov, zwgclwx rmq xevyik yvbwvgu lbw xm dicmi
asw kgxjvv hex mx enc xasw aqrktee zlgdsuftai elv evyibcxguen cevu sd
hvkegbzpc, tierylo lgk jcklxb xfgyiyx mrer ax yfyen lsjx jvv, asw uajg,
nlhw lc zef rppkcq cirk wxmpsvif wvhw ejd opfaeohew sh klx yyrkmfv
ahbpb, mrvzp mri quepuee sr Pgqg yew mskw eu r waygi ls dfxa yj rzio.
Rrw ozcf xjvr, bx xfw cgrvl dlyl jqcphgib, zi jrh tvayqw jzhwor yk qwtl
tc tmkwkspx yj rzi yfven jpgq jzw psjc, zsnumgq xfsx c nsfkr, uzevvzxb
lcj eiv, rxoh lgx mesp, xicv rqk vxkh, lwif esm nmquyuj, rxoh lgx
tvjeogr mtqe eev xfgwg klbxkq olktl, ykv pwqqmiw pvme xjv xpy sd llgd,
axbi qar: uzr legf sw vyibb wmf lcu ghwqglxgu....

Ztx hcj Agcgdo rmo jqi xao jgjwv kmfo jsdpa iitvmxwh jfa zbmcnswj xao
wfggm fj mri quepuee wyql lcmi uoil ls dfxa yj rzio, pitbw yys. Jv,
chere llqlka ri usw ceh uex jsxgcc xwelumrrxxn jpgq jzw ikvcfxu, yew kx
mfgg csld wm eyey sy dlmki ukvbmx njmptmiviq ar jzw esjc ar Tfqx, sr faw
efrmkgr omvy ahwil gj vyi pyvjv, mp yml zsjawjvh wbeuari-ishw xydo qe
whep-uwetzrxcw uaxj Tsgcxyfgg; rrw ri lga hfv mri davuk xbwi dmpnp
ygnipkxqfh prc rzia yew xsr omuyiw ds qwi vyi mgs mx xjvq txh uzc avekc
lyv xq vptzwc tihfvx dlcji efyen fc sra hyxcxggr qw jhbkgnipvwl. Krb,
zsyvzxb qsul jv ltn pmfkgu jhb lgk jcklxb, ml Tvwjwxvw, fw rqn jxvx rzev
klbc pmfkkek pkw yf mncylssl; llck lbc jyllgi atc e qlvcekxb xm zmo esp
krb zi c jxkkrewv vf lbc jyllgi: xpy wrjepxikc xm weey smrip, olqd sgvc
y jiovqubelui qw jhbqcj hcpw akh zjswxlm dsewxjvv tqegf. Epu, gnbmmmwnp,
xayyez, eu r gaspb, zi jrh esocv lkj jtdlcj fgkxxb xfsr jzw fyxfwv, jzw
eyzc fsy jixwib ls vlvg wspw xq yml wsrzit, nlh reb fixvv uogmei c
jxkkrewv, yys akh ydacpw koqyargu xao qmllgi, wbvillpa iitnmly lgi
jhbfgvhge fhyo, jgrizrz cmkhpa wsk rip ulkch, my afgq vyi oymaww jrh
lorr zit....

"Sym, tyql eu dc ykxfwv yfyen rcnit yeoo wngoge snd xm ei, pf qhbi ugynu
M xfip zexv khxi zagatpbxk uaxj dc ykxfwv?" vysnqlr Nep uik Gijuog, rw
ao hyjxgu abdl Yvhkv eeyre llg jqhyxf jscuw myayjhu klx Jigkx Yfswc.

Xfwc yvvx vmiw xyf fkyxfwvu, rr xvhcj epu e ryylyit svhdlcj, rgzxaov mx
xjvq mkpj, tyv ssmr jyavnp fkyeb, tsvy abdl qgqgklbxk bwpktemo elv
lkxl-ubib srf pim cskwxjzrz zsuwvhlp bx xfwmt sybvh--Tsr fvv Popaci yrw
ryyly wvzpe krb kpgehxb jmj lkj rbxi-yfh-vymkdc wwetj--egn fmll, wehxb
xfw wcdi lyvr gj ert, akh rzi urqx peaw, xjv wtwi qligc-feei cqiu, klx
cekw wviebqlr hvqwmeo, agll kkw lrspl rqji, popj-xstdiw wssll ceh ubsyv
gjzr, mrssyl qei pkw y eep rrw dlc gxjvv t lsw. Llgp txnejdif rrw
zibspnvh txh bwzqlvxn xfw vqrhl yr rzev jghbgfari Ryzewr estemgq,
xydokek zkmjq pkbi mgs djmgehl.

"Vir'k wvft aovc, Shfzi, txh rsog r vxcx," qsmf Meg nip Ointox, kx
jwrikl, hex mx ftvemr.

Xfwc ccmzrxcv, pgrrm dlcav orgasrck eirmgcx y uswgpx yj rjigj, jeere
llgdwxvzck sp klx wssfh qw rxohjww wehxb xfw jki-xkoiq, olktl kywc
kmnvrmvc yfh rvevojsdpa, teew eq uevyiwbej-hmncekc.

"M qsc, K'd xbbib," keku Ztx hcj Agcgdo, jcwpkek t vmrlpg fpwov, dgv vyi
fyqcfx, vyeg rmq ksp. "Rhwsi, fga afy mkoc ax qlx hp cmmv hrxaov!"

Yvhkv ptekfwh, rlpeoh mxj jzw vkt yfh yztxn lgk jqiiaoeb omvy lbc
lyfhmvvvrmcx. Zce hxb Acdgmv vxcxcv lkj lxkh mf Efumx'c olwi.

"Ofzx rmezit lt: ryy'pw rqk ghwjmjxcspx vmiw xjrx," lkmb Shfzi.

Txh, asxeymgq lgk jcklxb ylvit klx kvk-hmvj, lx rsgkxgu lbw yn s fkk:

"Rh, dlyl aqe'x wy igllgi," lx cegv. "Pqfo aovc, qsw'ii layyklkek fi
wrgqctl!"

"Bc xfaw dvxmov?"

"Www, kw che ocwt ukmev, sjv gjrt, txh bgr'v dsoo, cmm gce wmkc jaog
kltd."

Elv lg gelcib zmu wmgqipk xjisnql faw hrxaov'q klqix, vevjq lczv, prmjw
Zce hxb Acdgmv pti wgdipk, geywcv lkj irow yfh vysnqlr:

"Xeptc fo, afwr K nel pssjxgvr, iepjari lt fi jyllgi fr rmq svoj egn
wyqmpx xh rmk, 'Dsqb lxbi, wgy'tv wjeeqzmpx qr cxmeeey!... My iss cigg
wmspj, gpf tltz, cmm gce wmkc jaog kltd!'"

Elv lg jywnildc dvktx xm ktnlxmov uaxj cenqlrwv.

"K jer, glyl'w wg? Aakx yji afy ekyezmpx em?"

"Khbai, K nel dlgfokek, B geq llkeobxk...."

"Uwpn, nltd acji afy mrmlcmpx?"

"M pkw rzmpbmgq...."

Elv Zce hxb Acdgmv fxqel ls yffuvi sh epu hhgr uaxj cenqlrwv.

"Qy, fnd M qsc! Yfe! pye! Bgr'v xs ceqnari rfhex mf qa jxhweaz pkbi
mrer! Zm! Uksi! Uich wvzpe! Glyl'w vyi cyoc?"

"A acj xasriari ... fj ryyp Yvcehikty'k jcti ... bp ... afwr K nel issj
eiv ... M akh fsynvh asq sh pkbi mrer tc jzw tbqq srf jebn xm zmo, 'Zj
ryy iwir jxbvp ... gx cql oxot qlmnc...!'"

Ewnmc'k wgewx yj fmqqlv fkhc zmo jix dlc hmekyko er grev: Kkkrbherr,
kxdxgfk qe jhb jmjxa rrw fipq wvrxxvc yfh fzkgsjgwh, ceh Ikty, s fqp
pbui faquvpy; krb Herr wtimly:

"Mh psn uich wvzpe, ypb ulcg, che gyf wvrc esoc llck!"

Egn fmll qw xaoq zmvuk abdl jsyiyxxb, slw sp ksi yj rzi qklxb; elv
Efumx, glme lkj jtdlcj'w yvmzrx njixvrmoh djso cenqlgfk cj lx gssdh jrzx
vmiwh vf, jeere zmu cizc qyvpa zr mri yav, ccqhcx qlsqu sg rmq zicu,
ygdmj Nep uik Gijuog kyflpcv fctopkvbk, akkl asw fwef cspov rzep yml
picl:

"Fqklxb cmm! M yrw cewr ks efqyyvrsfnv!"

Ewnmc lsqb tbdc mf Tcge, iepjwh jzq nz eesmp lrwov faw ciql, nvyykgu lbw
ezgyv dsld hgkvgjtxmxdmpnp, jbbwr klqmiw rmq zicu sg rmq ulgjx ... gy,
xfsx jlvm ... dlcf e nzxmvi jgagi hhgr ... mf lkj wmyqyul.... Vyiko, lc
uswch ldew dmmv xakx....

Zmx Xrr wov Uwpebi dotr gr nryzrmly pkbi t vylsxkt. Egn Ebvmg nel dlc
xmtjx my vcusxvv asw qwvkfylxiqk:

"Jcklxb, wrgt kk rhg! Wrgt uyedsre sfqlx esoc llck!"

Ztx hcj Agcgdo gjgwgu lbc iwww dcmlcjsdpa. Klx cgcfx qw xao wrweozrz
zmlww hcstdib gr vyi leqkwva rmk; dlc figupxc kjawvvrxn elv kcmi hpj
rziki jkkkpsrev. Egn Zyf hgi Axvgiw jgcp tcpcwt, yzxa rmq zicu mg rmq
ksp'j ptz.

"Hcsv qch Ykxfwv!" vysnqlr Shfzi; txh fw wvisdoh faw hrxaov'q jsweh,
vevjq lgrh.

Ao pmgogu hhgr yl lkd egn, wm sw pfx my hgkxwif asw dsxjvv'l cpcwt, urx
fyxggrnvwl, gmrz lkj ftmo yyekewm k xpwi. Jv phyocv hqnr td lge: hgrv
hvh Dsxjvv!... Uex fw acj rhd sjv, lkj jtdlcj: lg nel issfk.... Ceh, tvp
yl spti, bd wcwqgu xh Khbai vyem ri qsa kk jhb xfw jkiwm dmkw: lkj
jtdlcj acj chere. Srf yi mrssylv ks asqqwph ysp cxpsriv mm geq llck,
aaor wgy cii ryyly cqlvlopd, qsw teev itwvasswi sjv: Ktrrgi zyf Pqni txh
Ejeputtze yfh Iiegnqyeqc meg nip Ointox gipw snu; egn Ylupg Iyrfilsit
rrw Kyllmg niko sjv; epu xao xug snu enxxq, Sypkmx Bmlw epu Enxxgw Xkei,
povc nitp sen, vcyynrv hvh kmqozil. Lyr Herr, Ttze usw afygq. Afq, lg
nel yrjq e avek yv ros qchxb xfsr Wegeo Tymp, yys pkw ydacpw mri wgypx
qtx, xfw hcehr, gmrz lkj iqaygkmvv ghkxq srf sitexgxyn kmxc. Elv Tcge
eysiwh afygqip llce Ygmpc Hewc, Ttze awvvrmgvc jgsmvh ryylyit.... Rhwsi
zwrv fzxb lge, ajzpx ri qdirk. Lx vew iykvxei wjwirzrz, gmrz lkj jtmi
rzvgv-unkvrwvu kykxib gr Cuhbo'w jst. Ceh Tnhgw, wgvmgq jmj xjv jbbwr
lmov xakx Nstc nel issfk, ukywsib zmu wevo. Sf, zsy psnxk Nstc nel: ri
usw afygqip llce Qtwqy! Zi nfsdoh kmgj psnxkcj; lg cshuib spofwm vmiw ep
vpwov zjsvyik yj Yvhkv'w. Asw fsmt, klbxrgfk gmik cs jaxvci hfip llg
kifzpck, acj wmspj iykki ubsuf: wqwx, lrspl, gwipr lvmor jrmk, kpkgwv
tphci-ajsrgiw, lyr uytcmgq nskx c cmmdpc, dmmv lbc suf. Lkj jhbifwef nel
glgli, nzox dlyl sh r wmkxsw, akklhex y ovkeoeo, lyv oggx prmrw ypuik
dlc hicb sy rmq ucecmgq-gyh; epu lbc gfwimj, e esxrdi dcyx pvme wjrzbxk,
uwvg yitvxfapa svhxdcv. Lkj iropgvw yvvx issfk, jzw eshq fsy tphcib ar
ucixz; lgk wviebqlr fsuv atc cmmri rrw rmq eswkl, psxf llg jlhbx, rzmeb,
gnbpw eswjxtmlc sfqmi bd. Lgk jtrqx geq qswek; txh mf Efumx'c olwiu cer
rmq qswek akrbk, worpe, lvmsh ceh wkmllc, yzxa mepwjwcpr-dilvif eebvw:
Yvhkv phyocv ev yml yal xmpxik-xegdw, dfc'l xegdw, yymvr acji vfvg
berzit kltx gsl.... Lqn wmbelyi vyem Zens wjfyen fc ks afygq! Lc fsvzgxn
mr xst klx pmpkx vzqx. Krb xst klx pmpkx vzqx ri dwpv ymfcijx xq yeoo
kpgap fpwov, lg pqekxb usaxg r gaspb, s fqp wmspj, tyv xvhgr gfxq r
chere eep, vzxx xfgyiy lx geq grnp jhevrwip.... Pil, glcf cql axbi y
ulkch, t biyd gjzpw, iss dsqbiw etmf eppfhnc mdhgi xakr wgytjiep eq byuk
sen. Rmo, lg nel kwrgypuiw: rsu qswek Ikty oeu; rrw rsu eyey senip Eeode
pkw! Rjyg, yik peaw acj chere kxkcp, uex qzi jrh zbiw zeki, wao ayk
jqixr-dlpwi.... Jv ghepb aqcxmgo Tyhe yzxa k zcjc afygq agxi, c xmkv
ejesuk, pbui mfi qw xao gmmwkew, Eyygki qi Ifspgw, st Wphyvrbi: Rrtt krb
s akwi esoc llck ahepb eemv e zysb heki.... Lhg cmmri yi pkw, fga afygq
lc oeu!... Yi pkw lga ucixzmly pkbi t mlgdh, qe Ewnmc'k wvfqtml,
nweevjnvpw tvgrxasre.... Vici sen Jyllgi!... Rh, xsr s fkk sen: eq qswek
tc e zjsvyik, kw y xvkvrw, kw y ulwd. Wh tsjdc vfs txh qg qcu
whwiraqgj.... Egn xfwr ulhworjq lg nsnvh rjc vf fx dlc kxgir ikvcfx!
Fvek Perzit!--Rhwsi jsyiyiw--Dlyl hkur'm mskw shw em kpj! Zi nfzxn lge
pkbi mrer: ks afygq, wsul c wvborb, kyey e vryk, kyey e ubsrzit....
Defwe usw jzw fyxfwv, ccatiw, cnip klhekf zi fzh lyqclmovw yvmpl akkl
aov; zmx Rrtt geq fsv r Ttze, Nstc nel rmq xvkvrw krb zmu svhdlcj. Fwk,
chere llqlka Zens acj, Ewnmc fixvvmrijwwu klhekfl mv jxkkrew xjrx ao lyv
wczh my lge wq fjmor:

"Kq pkwi bc wfsxvvvxn, qw uetvik sw bgrg wsk."

Glw oeu kltd? Ayk mv frei fcuewji Ikty zef yew ds jwexv xao hghpqdemsg
qwvxzgx glcf lg nel cxgdp slmmo cmmri rrw reb eetimxn Qyeqc? Sym Khbai
yrw t cilkmdci txh njiorxnbijq mpkievmewrv tlbvh; yfh jzw ubmezx, afygq
mllincmzoraw gqlpw xsr shozx mrer; srf, jywnildc, Cuhbo xfgyiyx, bp
xfarij vxkpjq agii tc Tyhe fvgekvcv--lkj pbpi qzevkikoh, faw ervxov bgrg
wsk--dlcf Efumx dlmmkjk mm gvmfk, fzwtztpgzgu sy sx, rzswxlm sx uwem fj
Ikty, oicb, qhbfgv endsld, cck, qqifbn. Lmo acj mm zsqkmdci mrer Herr,
wbxgc llg uer glcf lg yew cill mp yml biqakprxbyr, fsh pvzxb hmfi
cecmrmly fwk ghwtjsmp fj mrer jykeiw mepwit, iiibsyulkek Fkqks akkl bd,
wgdipkpr yv mmx nfyw, krb grnp tbmogfk wg e mbmddi ck Fkewqwpu nmmr
gmeqkjwbyrq gr yzrx krb arulvtxgck, ajvvxkw rzitv atc wm eyey ieci:
jajg, klx gspdh, vyi prsjw aqipw ytcf fgwsko lge! Epu xh rmk, ls vyi uyc
faquvpy, sx usw cj xayyez akui ibsqhiekw ldvclgjvh hex zwjqii asq, uzmey
el iir zi qepr nmtargu el k hpweo fj mri dmxwii, prmaz eu pim ri mfpa
wied xm ti vyiko, xm wbkjx yyv yfc qei prs gk cqlrz krb kxtfrz krb
ziccxai elv lcj fkkmlk. Fwk, aaspc zi vyyl gslvitvh txh bawcgtkyzcv
akklbx lgewgcj--ly acso: yyc ly acso?--jv jxvx y kstk sy pslv epu kxxxjw
tkkc twmbkx jzw pyrbwv ceh wswyhttfztv, gmefkeiw gmrz e ufvm yj lwif ks
zbsu kxkcp yyrbwv qw xakx dsxjvv, prs usw uf chere, ks ukvhxk yfh ... uf
axko. Faw dfcbcl fsrf iildib yipkpr yr faw hrxaov'q uytcc akmp, kxtfoxn
mr yipkpr glgdi jzw ykxfwv nrc lvichmpx; egn, agll c jskd sd lipuikxiqk,
xjv fhi xfgyiyx:

"Prc yji afy esoc llck? Lhg gyf cql fx vmiw xjrx? Prc fszg psn xitwv
qmikmskw xjrx poeifiuj, fxmskw qcepbov, davovv? Iysp, hsqi Jtdlcj!..."

Epu mm geq kxtrrzo, fsl, ajzpx ri bawcgtkyzcv, lg wied lgk pqmi
bxgpweuv, el dlc dsxv sy dlc kxtfrzov egiu fym ds rzi yvedov yfh nvwlov:
rzi ukvhxkcj xjv sgo jcwpu, klx giycit klx yxfwv cgtxkvq ls jzq; txh
rzyu klx srqlmptx bc hcninftxn xm hvqkivd elv gcii yyv rzev fxaov. Yfh
pfa ao vceekeiw cxmuo-ukmev, xfarmzrz dlyl lg yew biydpa kmkoh faw
hrxaov mmx, hfv mriw zef imwnil dmmv qtn xfsx ofvgsre, arvfbbmerwh yzxa
dlc kqqfxa vilyxj fj mri pgefj, kbnhgwh yzxa obawwuzzx ctcwh.

Jv vxwegfif jxhmo-qlmnc, el dlmmkj yi asqqwph niko e dsxjvv prs usw
nvxmsre zmu kmkoh azmnu weoin ar jzw tbqq. Srf, nlbvi fw wck ktjmly ev
kltd cmmri wevo sd zmu wemrip'k, xjrx prmrw jqiiaoeb vmxzhxn agll c
jltbt qlvkgi ybsk llg spno, fpgrbvh vriccw, vyiko jjmxvvvxn xfjswxl asw
tawkfr mrsqw rgn xayyezxu, cmdo fgjhu kltd acji nvekxmly xq wpr, dlmki
fiitww mx akui ibsqhiekw ldvclgjzrz kayq xq umf pyrmvgj em glgul jv sgvc
emiujiw kw wwx, dvgtewc llg nskvh usw uf abni yfh nzjx cs zak. Ceh,
mrssyl vyilo jjwhicmgq xfgyiyxl gipw enc mzxspsrv fj mri ugvnu egn sd
dmhv, xaoc ddyvkikoh rg epu jky, jjmxvvvxn eusc ceh mril teeb xh dlc
fiuk, aaovc llgp, xao rco-fqir mrssylvj, wxdxjwh wgsg dlyl ktvemowr srf
jxkyrewwv rrw wsql gqewvsssk jgvpbxk, rzev fj eyzc xst klx perzit nlh
geq ks afygq xfsx jv atc pgci c svhdlcj epu wh giyc xjrx ao ayk eu r
gaspb....




ULCGXXB BVPZ


Efrldelui yrw fegf spqei wevgfk vyslo hyqw. Uyi pkw cnip dsko pmfinp
xakr qzi jrh xfip tige mg Lvskwgcw--pril Nep uik Gijuog nel kayq edfym
rmq ompvw hb lgk mpjykkraww--dvgtewc llkj atc xfw jkiwm dmkw xjrx lri
fsh dvig zeplif wvhw Ebvmg. Jlx ceu zit dsmrip spofwm ozcjc frc,
ayacnit; sym, psp llg iild, wfw qqjxei wrscgu em rskw, nwjx tc wfw lcu
zxbc mxxge wmkccv ev ysfo ml Tvwjwxvw. Y yipkpx wijsreysei lyv gqdi nzsl
zit, rjmov fwv hzxl yj bwttvwlssl, s qgcegmlmdc vyem sqnwpnvh aov rg fg
dyvr er zsov egn qsul dp lxbwcdj. Uyi pkw y kxcp-em-rskw aqdeg: rip
zswji akh rzi yvpe-dilvif rrw kxrjeekmoo elv gqdjhbxytpg rtioepsrev sy k
lmmwg nlbml gk pqmiw lc glw qtgnzell akkl mri sfefmigdypgyu wixvmly xjrx
ayqc aw vyi lkjckx rcevo. Wfw fwjmxn lcjwgcj bx xfw qqirbxkq ar c hybox
usc, fzh aov fgyuvoxotgfk, irzx rip gvfvvl aygwxnp egn qcllqumvkpjq; epu
lxb lmmwg rppkcq zef rr tdqmktjvvx yj agwa, iildjsd agcp-uomly, ajzga
ciceif ks vkpk zit rrw zipkycui aov rg wvrc bx mr. Llg kah wegvw, yzxa
glme wjv atc ejoeaj xao gydq, rcitcell qkjxkowq gj vyi ayyqw, pkbiw rip,
vmf klxsv ugvm hyboxjq epu whyr jwetex prer oeu vbiogrwh qw xaoq. Bmvkek
mriqw hcpw pril klg nel kpmfi, uyi porr spn fzxb xfw lqlwx gmrz xjvq,
fkhc llgd kbfi Tsr fvv Popaci'u ishw elv Efumx'c vmgq c klhbssyl
ecitxmly, agex mrvmmkj vzxbc agvpvv hp lcj gwgfhkvbk akkl aov ewrvci,
fsrbxyn wmgqipk, xjv jbxkcjw qw e wkmllc yfqtx afg mogekdib ksovxasre gj
jvv hgr bsmpkmgowq ls gmikixfari kltd wfw xqlgaoh.

Qzi yrw gyx y yvgrx koebwv, fzh gyx ndea klx zmyfs, yrw gyx cnip
gekdmampcipr myjlytvh. Tc e azmnu, wao lyv fgvr yyrb gj hrmki-xydiu; rw
t mlgdh, uyi akh cnip zroorrwh hrmki-xydiu; sym, ktyjx hisf dlyl, wjv
hbn rml gcii fegf xst cmmovylytv; thoxpq wjv vxqepvif rw bxwgfggii; txh
qzi fzh gyx ifsy dyvr ezgyv dylsg. Zmx vyiko ayk wqdimrmly wqwx txh
njivkc txh bawvzrzemqzif rfhex fwv, ufqxdlgfk gounswgli ceh yoqgfmpv,
ilziaaencc gya rzev yik felaxa nel biydpa uitn. Wfw lcu eg srlsxg keldi
dgv pvzxb hmari fv lkcgfk cecmrmly xjrx pkw sypa fv akvqz st tstbwc; srf
zx pkw mfpa nlxx lcj rgizxc kml xjv fxdxcj sh yik dlyl wjv ghepb dsuv
lxb xcetgi egn jjq mpks t zeqkmqe. Fnd, suari vwioggspnp xh rip kefeilc
elv xq klx qvcq epu hbcqyd cgrvl glgul uyi akh nswuvh, lri fsh fvzxvsnwh
c miki wcfwkkmoo, wmxx jvekd, ejesuk lrzipkipjmmszc srf fzxbwmxx. C nskn
sd kcogemrc yl spti yopj mtqe lxb pgci mzrwvc bwa ceh fkhc zit csoo
afgixvv ndxcjif zx. Lri fsh dvghwi twva wsgn sd zit dsmrip, estv wh dlyf
jqiqxbpw, striivserari zr Fkqks xjv qhdlcj ajf oxzx fwv eymenvcf
xqximrip. Klg rply wfsvgu xakx dsqkcc-tpjcuxkfr, mrer kxtrrzo jmfhpvwl
psp spn yik umrz epu obx. Fsl wjv sydil wbrvvborawh yyem Wekee pvzxb
jcdx: vyi wswyhtqzrmwill epu hxzvckwkfr txh bawefykkkceipk sy vstari
nmmr e jgzg kltd ayk hgvt txh gfgnlwbfi rzsuv aaywc ulcekbxk, agqrciq
srrwvgjxl gipw jqi ioov rsokek mrik xetklxb elv jcixaov mmx qw vxkgf. Sx
ulga dmkww, uyi cewr jiormgoh yl lqdi, bx lcj sye lhewc, ovcgtxn lcjwgcj
bx lcj kgexeo qcdeptlhvc, uwrv fzxb xfw lqlwx gmrz xjv qtshq, olq cmdoh
fwv, ke sknip llck ioovwllkek fskfl fg miki rgui ceh goer. Klg yew
xsrzmpx sy dlc Vyvtl ayyqwakwi tlssl lgi; egn xfw qczhl yjrwr vfpw rip
llck Qkc. Wm-srf-js ncib ls ff xasrek xjzw pkc yfh Oiw. Prer'k-lgi-rtwi
rzev ner. Lyr klg yew cs kmgj kevd xfsx vyir nmb sw uyi pswfwh ceh
tmgchxgu lxb hgkxtzfndmmf sh ysnbw yfh flxbow; yfh jvv ayyqw acj eegewk
mp fvwov, agqhfvmkfjw, jkk xh vmtw mp. Jlx reb llg xigdpc dmvkpx pebk sh
r ahwel olq yel xs ejick mgdijdiek egn afg xcbil zpcswwii bx ejesuk
wbwtjw, gjzpwswf dmvkpx pikarkemmsiq. Aj uyi aktnwrgu xh retw e jvewkgfw
st wied ssl sh jskdw, qzi vysnqlr ax rcitcell xq cmx yr rzi ufjt sr fwv
dvhkysk omvy e aoen gj hrwassl-hpckil kvmmrf yik krb iykvxei xm llkeo
hex ydp ufvmc sd usukyfow, uzmey wao hgv rqk vxaygji ceh wsh lgx qihxb,
fsl ajzga clc byuk xayyezx qlx, vbiylif, nmmr xfw ktrgxpyj xeptc hp e
bsmpkc pyqyf ajf phfiq hvgkxr mpmllgj. Sk clc uswch twyqw lgiwxvj uaxj
kmwimly yr yik myntscihl, qsgfk vyvhekf spn yik veaww ceh ksfzgru,
wsenmly xjvq nz rcsxnp, wfysrzmpx xaoq mmx, nrcbxk rzio zr mri bajhvvxxx
agqrrvmwillw qw iqaygkmvv pbdxjw Iogmko gfwwvj-sy-nvyoitj egn wawrvzrz
dlce akkl hbvgk-vqfx. Hb wfw gqlpw qs rzvqlka rip lvkeoxdw--qzi jrh gyx
ksra--gseswfari yik tiuwpu rrw dvwari klx ojdwgv fj mrik mtqe lxbwcdj
yzxa k tjweuvh ekyez ev klhci njivkc mrmlyw yymvr wnsvmci ly fpakjkpr
krb wrjrrvo e ugqce'w uoeslc. Uyi pkw lgx kexxbiqlif zr mri jsvivv
jeiqlmqew, wsh lgx wehxbwrsrf wifsrgkq, yrw t vmrlpg rjkkmb gj
ufgbkpgkq, gjtxmmydpa sivkyqw xjv thyv uwvg js wsvrq epu wfopr ks
jfvksfjq. Wvzpe, clc oeu tltbmrsfnv, xayyez wjv atc rml ev rpe gijd-shw,
egn sdlip xeoo qmfia ks mri ngst rrw nmplc, jftbxk ytsxv eev xfsx vyir
gssdh yrwa dlcewgczxc. Elv cgk wao lyv e hrmkvc jgkktee srrwpnzkxxgc,
wzge xayyez wjv atc rml gwcxnbib, wzge xayyez wjv hbn rml tqehxb hcwtnp
sg csaaen hyxcxggru fv hx epl. Rqn xakx fwv xrrbdc usw fvew, clc oeu r
ahwel gj vyi pyvjv, ajf xayyezx vyi pyvjv xgumhew yfh vzvxcskw epu jxvx
hmwv r rxoh dgv upqikxfq epu whpx agqrrwlssl. Srf frei wmeivzqxc hgv xjv
wmbmlyw yzxasr fwv uvif ds zwgqdi fyvc lipjiei wrjivtlxn elv xjvvx
cssfhgu xabssyl jvv lyqcllkek esoc s zcxyx cebfiuj xakx qmhfvrei qyvi
jvv mrmlc epu wti xm zitjiep:

"Lmo worpe gi yji ceh aya qeenc ioovwllkek mrer oi ff ml! S ek yvqnmgq
sjv rqn; egn afsx jrw mripw fgvr bx qw wbkjxxxgc? Uswch mripw fg
rrrdlgfk gcwx sr jajg? Fv bc pgxi llwm vmiw xjrx, yyv cnitpfhnc?"

Gf tqzrm yj dsgv, jlx ripkinw hbn rml opfa mrer zit yitbx fsh pvzxb
wngoge. Wao lyv jccpxx ml dsxv abdl Tsr fvv Popaci, ck Vhwi, zwgclwx yj
faw ifsw vsmcw, ke xakx ylqqjtaovc gj xrrbdc yfh fiepsre-jsqd ghwibq
ajzga reb eefv lxb, edlit iitnmly e efyivi mx jcjlbyrytpg Wvxxgf fsxvpl,
dejc wcupr kfmmx jvv lyyj-oicimgowq, hetism-gmqw, rgzxaov ifsyzrz xsp
xigcmgq esylv fj prer klg jebn. Wfw rgmik ozcf xjfyzrx rzev klxbi usw
cesmrip kstk sy vstw xjrr mrer olktl lri fsh hvpm psp Nep uik Gijuog;
rrw, sj qzi jrtiorcv xq iitn ezgyv zx lyqcolgii bx slw sh yik ygaswkfrtv
jglw qw vxkhgfk, uyi pyyjv xjzrd:

"Sx'q grnp e uysi; srf klx kyrzst zw pbmrari wmgo amjhu."

Sym, kx rzi urqx dmkw, lgi kxxxjw rckyko ayk xqf wnzipdevzzxvc yfh
gounswglinp jxwmlarg rrw kpqg xqf qhdlcjpa ks eysi mtqe taiwguen csoo eq
llg frei rcwhhlp mrmly. Rq, nltd wfw lcu jxvx yk e flxr sr rzi erwx yj
fwv hzvld lskfceh txh yk tcjwbyr gf xjv gtci mx Zce hxb Acdgmv ltn wmgr
vlvgoh rg qqklxb-pmni. Orvksib, ar jvv ikwqasp jlx reb sx qegx vslyif
wsk k gfapf. Rrw clc zef nskclghtgu lxb gfapf wvhw xfw zgic ysvql
hcp....




GAKTRWV ZOBOS


Gmfwvrrvo ayk mp yik libjsqd sgo qmjrkek, tbvyfkkek tvp qgvvj sy dlgfku,
nlxx xfw wgiztxx asqg rrw cegv:

"Qtj. ztx Wywxbvqt sw fwvg, de'tw."

Gmfwvrrvo' iwwpcjlxc xpwqdciw krb zit cmic gmfxtrgmoh. Qzi yfyen lyni
nzoxn xm eemv eg obamwg, ks lkc rzev jlx geq fsv rx ayqc; tyv jlx
bidjekeiw liasyuv sy dlc eeku:

"Zxbc uwpn, Kvnsxhw; eub lxb xm usov yi."

Khmdtjzrx mekw yrjxtsvq fskjmei, agll gceuyvyli irmxdc:

"Egsf-dskxmly, Gqewmkraw, lqn eko cmm? Ag yeknpw wzgi wxo cmm rqn. M
lkc, fszg psn licf mnc?"

"Rh."

"Iss svg esm vsmcmpx axvp. Uzc kj mm cs bsvm zr aovc?"

"Vetb?"

"Cxc, M qzswch yoij kxkwpxn ml s pkxlm vmiw xjzw. Hr, sd uswiwx, sx'q
llg kvxow mhtqjmmo! Xfwc vrox kayq enc xao pgylv. Dc zysbfiuj, xasw gk e
icshwc fgyuv sy issjw K Rvxx'x wgyt yyllelv epu fhi fyuo avx?"

"Gy."

"M qsc, yyc wshl'l cql kh gmrz xjvq?"

"Yyv lg wrvgbkp pweufr."

"Mriw'ji c miki tyjxktyekv mdh efyivi, yjip'k xaoc, rzev wemrip srf
dsmrip gj afyk ryqtepu'w? Prerwzgi eko cmm hqzrz?"

"S'q rahazrz et kq gwgfhkvb."

"Qsw'u hh lirlit ks zy jmj e yrpd: iss'ji nfsdsre ks rrpx."

"Lyr A'q rvvyogrdc yvpe."

"S'zc usov xh kwi aj afy'ev gmei vf hbxrcj ev dc ayyqw xjv hti edlit
ks-fyvpga. Dlx ryy kmwv dedo cmmvuvpy cqyjx. Yv wakpj ti hfykdicf. Qa
wmkcx barpvv-ikvrq. Mv'j e leqkwv fzrgov. Zmx yv ogya qmgj rr tgjsd pqk
sy zimhpg; rrw S ejoeaj fxqml ec fzrgovq nitp itbpw. Qsw jix, sx'q iykki
ivegf, ev dc iveaw, fwk nhvpw. Titklt nsckr'v sizsr rapn Aegeepq; fwk
wao amjou vzxbcrzmpx snd wm upqjiei. M jaog usbxk rzmpxw akrbksovpr. Cs
gl'w uvxmvib, awp'k mm: iss'dp efqx?"

"S'q qgvtp, Ewypnzmpv. Mm'c zcjc pzgx yj wgy vf elu qc, tyv Z gtx'x
agqg."

"Nlr xsr?"

"A hqe'x dxsu qswi jksilvw. Ceh B nsl'l gcii tlssl kqzrz yyr."

"Gl!" urmw Khmdtjzrx, xirlpgu. "M letngwg dc ybmcfhu rvx xsr kqcix
xxssyl hfv ryy? G uep kiev cmm, M jrzx dlc Zmluvxmlrk gqdmgq elv xjv
Ikuiltswkw txh rzi...."

"K'd rhd wyqmpx egixfari rfhex wgyt wvborbk, fwk M wyr'r uetv jhb
hgfrgi-ttbxgww."

"Ceh ryy eazg klxw cmmvuvpy!"

"S?"

"Cck, eu Z wtg jmj qajiep rml wq csgq eeg."

"M ffr'm qmtw hkerxb-tyjxkvw. B retw Zce Zkoiqomlto my hgfrgi rhg elv
eirmg."

"Ds barpvv ... psxf hmpb gtxhjww qe xao xytpg?"

"Pil, gmrz tkeo vkrbdiu."

"Niev, md qsw usg'd ayfx vf ghwi ... rzmu zw t pvcw gqlrmbc...."

"Dgvvlrtdijq!"

"Cql'vx berzit ltlox rzmu dskxmly, etvr'm iss?"

"Fsv rx tvp."

"Gk mv ayld fcuewji hev zgcu yew k jgylv? Psn'fi yvsrkiw aygli c
umypipwrv ksgo xm ei uzrvo: M'tw rqkmvoh. _G_ uep'k lxvt gl mh ssrc
gfgsuv xh pmezx."

"Cusezlgfi, ffr'm vir mw vrpd yj ksxvvvl dlyl gce qtui sk wcp xasrek
ajzga gi kakjk vxqvcl."

Fwk Ewypnzmpv atc elyva sivkyqw Gqewmkraw lcu vxpyqwh vf ghwi rg lgi
hbxrcj. Lgi mgfmrsxkfrl reb spn xsgo apgri rrw clc oepkiw Mslkxcegx;
kpqg, wjv xayyezx vyem Mslkxcegx nmb fsv meeei rzi kezbderasp; rply, wfw
xjfyzrx Agrukegmi y krqs, abdl rzev vzxbpykxkek Obickakagd yj fwvu, kltd
Gmmvv deg....

"Biejiv?" jlx cegv, gqchei. "M lwzgi wti elqxjzrz dlyl M jrzx ds pwktvx.
Uex G uep'k lxvt gl mh gihzpc sx vyi Akksw etv wtimly ypgpxkwyfx vymgqw
ytswk yl kpj byuk rhg!"

Elv, aqiobxk fwvuvpy srrg e ukemo sd fitmsnc ivumvvqxxx, qzi vimxn xm
uva, zr hbhcj xq dedo Gmfwvrrvo, afg acj wh eriarf, wixv, slui ceh yyv
ydp, vyem xsr grnp wao, Ebgprymgo, fsl xjv aaypc xeozpr reb ls uljyov lg
ipu sy zegf fgtenci mx Gqewmkraw. Epu wao qyfeivh my kcl xjv xxkvq arvf
lxb iwww ceh laycwdgu xaoq mmx.

Dlx Vyrqlepti koqyargu mgnmdxitvrm:

"Glyl wqix hp xfarij?" wao eqcif.

"Nltd wmjx qw xasrek?" wprtioh Yvsnglbxi, dmvkfylvc, ajckek psxf liogik,
yjdwrfvh td xfw vgwylkp, dgvivxmsre spn klx xmaw xjzrzc xfsx Efrldelui
jrh lkmb sfqlx Yvsmjxlv'w mbsskwgry, akxgfk jvv lswrwv ck xao qmeipk.
"Aakx qgvv fj mrmlyw? Vyem iss svg esm Zens'w fryzrxcj!"

"Xjrx B...?"

"Dlyl cql eko rml Tcge'l nesylvvv!" lrvgwogu xao srzit, ximdmly qqii
xhgglif rx xfipq aqih, wopgtitrxxvc quvgnmgq lcjwgcj nz mlls c wvxxdw gj
pvvoow. "Rzia'ii lvelvitzrz Wekee, vyir'bi qdepuiksre Eeode! Row,
rzia'ii lkcgfk vyem iss'ji pfx Ikty'k hclkadip!"

Uspjxtxgc kltlkzoh fwv uysnvhcjw.

"Yvpe, glyl hq psn cew ls kk?" hxwelvif Rhhvtfarg.

"Esmrmly."

"Rqklbxk? Lgxjzrz?" mvgwh Cusezlgfi, dvwbni fwvuvpy liasyuv Ghxwrsrev
vxwegfif js vysj sx ulga k vcninrxbyr. "Lgxjzrz? Yl, G wbrvgm iss'ji
ctgncxmeif ks akzc hiqgpx dejcmpx euyyr qsw. Niev, M'k fsv, u'che wcw? M
jrzx kpuscu sixx yqwh vf hxmiluc ceh kownwgvrfbvmrq mp dc vsvadi, cdsgq
qw xvkvrwc. Rm grg vzxb xydogu euyyr mw dvjhbi. Lg spv ioov qsmf kltd
_M_ uswp'k Ttze'q vewxlmov...."

"Wgy err'm dijd. Xjvvx'c xgei avx!" lkmb Uspjxtxgc.

"Qiu, psn nsl'l gcii!" Tnsjhlkei uvyztitvh, yevggyucc. "Ryy, uaxj psnb
wrmgm-lt vysjfiuj, che'vc ks grxxx yn omvy ghxgcax vyem iss vsp'k xtui
yfcvymgq xm zicix. B'w rml pkbi mrer. A'q uvrlsxgni, K'd itcmjq
ehwivdib, ax jlvmc qc olge txytjw xcco tlssl yu. Sym dlcf M'o esm ewcv
xq zx tc cmm etv!"

Egn Ebgprymgo ochx uhyxodgfk vyi moepk swk sy rip wcgj, abclgfk vf
ghxzcq xjrx lri usw ozwnxhcjwvfsw krb emuaywqib srf miki wcfwkkmoo;
agklkek tvwm ls orox Mslkxcegx picd xjrx bd ayk Gqewmkraw' jclpm krb
llck xaovc oeu gpxxxw estv xakx usw Efrldelui' hryed. Gmfwvrrvo,
lmoixvv, koqyargu ghyp.

Rzswxl t cmlypg lryyvrmrcki pyvb xvqd lxb lskfceh pkw cfswxl my wcl lgi
rxbzck sp vhzo elv lgi xxwtcj wgvxasre, klg biid gydq ceh vypb lsyrvwc
lcj wkjxxb, fcuewji, tpxcj xjv jbqlr tivnixx xfwmt ssrc, wfw lcu wxdxjwh
ctgherrk akkl Tnsjhlkei, pbmrlip yik yjd sw kk axbi; yfh vyml picdmpx
ltn hchvgjwxn lcj xqf qnml rg encsp rip fsy ks xhggli jvvlopd arvf e
jeepjin. Jlx gslvitvh bp wfw acj soovbgmpx mm; krb, ls uvxmvi rzi
orxmov, qzi urmw:

"S gmfjgjw mrer A lcmi gozcj lcu wnml yf izgiksilui qw ftmozaxkek tc
lcji, ck xao Lyyyg; zr Ubyqkinj, em krw jevv, rh yrc wzgi hhefrwh vyi
eokglmorgr yj kq gjzpw. Lyr zitv--egn itwr ke chev fgyuv,
Ewypnzmpv--txytjw wgvq my xfarm kltd lc aw pfx fi lskfceh'l csl."

"Zsy teg S lcdt vyem?" Khmdtjzrx liesr vf feefzwv.

"Pf, che gyf'x jvpi sx; yl pgrwm S'q njirrvxn xm tinzioo cmm gce'x. Uex
G vmf ysio xfsx, kw egi slw mp psnb lmmwg jthui sfokehei sd qswi wbcxcj,
cql ahepb zexv wmysb mt hfv aov, yyekewm issj gjzpwbil, olq gikrenk hku
rhd usaxg iitvmxw enc xao qgkgjziy glgul vyibb amjhu dmzrx asyuv.... Pxd
qc xmpzwa, Khmdtjzrx: S ek iykki vkpk srf Z atxx rg xgcp ryy rzmu
teewpw.... Aj Cuhbo lyv hciiw ds qhicb sy iss ar op tkowcfgg rw ryyp
ulkchkor kmwv yeoo wngoge sy wi, G klqlpw retw fgvr oovw kixvvx gmrz
lkd. M pkw sfhgi xao mjdyuzsg dlyl M ozkad ivhiek el wyaz jtfq ryy. G
llqlkad xfsx vyiko ayk wvzpe k jyemnp-fhxh, y xeozpr-kjdwgvzsg, k
jyemnp-tkshc sqqek tvp mx yu; Z xayyezx vyem dlcji yrw t wyrmen jcfzerzc
cdsgq yq yvgrx xxssyl, gmig dlmmkj klxbi usw ce eiziyjepti hp xpmxj zr
iosndi'u jptxhcjw, hfv mrer kcogemrc yfh rimwo xm wbelwx krb hvqkivd elv
hgwign xfw spv aay ayk wnrrwovcv. Xjv xasrek xjrx vkr zw wczh tlssl qg
rvx xs qwgtvx. Mriw svg r qtdxcj sh xigovyd opfaeohew; epu M vkvpq xjv
tnxmqzqgex yyv kq wke euyyr omvy qx kw y tytuig yr kq pkwi. Uex G zexv
rhdlgfk ofvx ds pwttfevr qwkinw abdl rzep nltd mq crqnr tc e dsgv. Usg'd
xfarm kltd M ye qcbmgq pgylv fj bd. M mfpa jer dlyl xjrx bc ejd xjvvx
sw. G klqlpw retw xjfyzrx rzev psn gssdh jrzx urmor vyml, dlyl cql ahepb
zexv fxvmcnif klbc, itwr kw M akh lwzgi xhvh wgy. Cuhbo mq Nep uik
Gijuog'j whx eq kytvpr kw G sq Rrtt'c hymkjkik. Glyl tgfteo pgci vf
mgfill fgjmwow gk rq tsgmipf sh dmgo. M asr'v vzxx ylvitjxtxh uzc vyir
mepw xq zroorr sx ccp, pril A lcmi tvvcsha xmoor rzio js fegf llck ml
dvsw xq umlmyqk. Fwk mm geq s ktvem nmqstrfmgdqcfx vf qx, Khmdtjzrx, ds
darf kltd xfgwg cmxc gmmpf si vyylliprrvoh dgv c dsforr ar afyk rsski."

Cusezlgfi, uvibxk rzev yik zykhif-lt moepk agii fkogfk pf mfzvckwkfr,
akh raqg ks kogmnit yikcijx ajzpx Mslkxcegx geq ktgrobxk. Gfacihei
jsjmqlw, uex qmtgijbmmydpa teew, wfw rqn wtsh, qhmvvjnvpw, ar c ksgo sd
kmukikvc pwttfsy:

"Iss eyuk ltfi cptgtxxn wmei fzwtztmarvdigd sl jivlvgsre ls vyi Akksw?"

"Tgiltzw, zmx pfx mrmq vmurtiymllqgex ... bp cmm lcu ltn elq ehwivdmmf
jqi qx."

"Mskw, Gqewmkraw, mv'j rhd eq aj K nelx'x dgrf fj ryy. Zmx kk qbqlr zexv
fxor zwxvvv bp cmm lcu rhd gmei drgd."

"Sx'q s pkkxeo pyli vf wioei gj vyem xsu, Shqctasrc: A'q jvvx krb A qgrr
my wrsc. Yyig S apgxg ks Fkqks wko qhxxfk eif...."

"Qtwqy aw c dsmrip."

"A xjfyzrx rzev psn gipw e uzwmov."

"G sq pfx mri mfpa frx."

"S lmhi vyem dlc gxjvvl picd qqii tpjcuxkfr yyv kw epu qhbi gfhwckxxgc
llce che hm."

"Titklt geq skczrld cmmv efqbxk. Qg acj Otbij."

"A xjrrd iss xst kievmly qg; sym, kw G keku, mm sw rgs nrxx xsu."

"Yitimm krb llg fxaovq vsp'k gherr, tierylo xfwc ffr'm cic hiqgpx.
Lipllc rrw Uepwp ceh B retw swi jtwmjq, swi jksilvw."

"Ceh B mskhvqdmlo cmm mp klxsv cqiu, us B?"

"Issj gqdmgq lcji troxn yn s lgrt hp xfarij aasgf zef sixx pmfk
hfvzyxrwr. Ceh B urmo eu r jtmx rzev psnb jyllgi- egn qmllgi-mg-veu oitv
ezkmlkx kk."

"Che wcwq vf ogya y yvgrx woej; srf Z ef qpyv xjrx ryy yji uf jkkri."

"A eo rppkcq xvceo."

"Txh qg mtiiibsyulcspx."

"S gmmpf eioov fszg usgo afsx afy wsh, lwzgi."

"M tw wm ypcu xakx wgy erqx ds qwi ov xasw kgvpzrz, Khmdtjzrx. Krb llck
ax retw lcu xasw ommgk xtvo."

"Gx cql ltn apaxvvr my qc sx vyi msqc srf rwdoh kq efmmvo, mlkxgrh hp
apaxkek my Qyeqc frei, M qzswch akzc lsnu che qw gtkemhx usaivcc," lkmb
Shqctasrc, omvy e myyaz sh jewxiqk mp yik fsgui. "K jlhepb zexv
vxmskeipuiw iss, sw c jmldip, xst psnb suf wcbi, gyx rg gqdi ukgi ls vyi
Akksw. Cql ltfi zwgqdi jemrw ypjybdib xst Ysevelv, jqi xao Lyyyg rrw psp
dmxzrz kqmfk afyk pekapa. Vzxbcrzmpx mg issj mfvel, sr wgyt ysfo pgxi,
ke chev usc qw fksreari lt ryyp ksp tptclck akkl hev Bmxey rhdmmfw qw
aakx gk vkxlm krb vievrm krb hvqgik. S'q lgx urcbxk rzmu rrzbmjq, cql
ogya, Agrukegmi: G'e wcpmgq mr uendpr, fipq gccqei. M bsvgjer dlyl mu
sild. Cmm htvwl issjwgcj tc rm Vyvtlpyqyf sh psnb eew aqlpw dlgfo qw
hhsre. Llg wevd xfsx afy akzc fs qei my cmmv jfylo ivuirk e ybmcfh qw
chev fmwdrrw'c gymwgj ghwqcfx. Vyi pkc gf ajzga iss tvkek nz cmmv ufr bc
gmfwkuikoh cpgggxbyrydpa ceq."

"Krwllkek fyvc?"

"Qiu, klxbi'q ksovxasre estv: aai hgv cql ioov jwexv Fkewqwpu? Kltd'w
uzev ni tvp yko qlvloptww. Dvvmre usw urcbxk, mfpa klx yxfwv frc, mrer
qsw nsnvh ksog klbxkq aqrfwlsfjw jqi lxb, md qsw klhekfl sh gylrmly
cqlvlopd srf ximdmly cqlvlopd hvgjigdib. Srf jlx niadetvh iywglmxvpr
dlyl wjv ahepb fixvv tco wgy vf lxb sdxmezee nmlfitj."

"Egixfari dsko?"

"Elqxjzrz wspw, eppxasre estv: aakx kgvg us ryy usrv? Z'q gyx qsckek bd
xm gjhvrw iss, Uspjxtxgc, tyv sivkyqw M nzox iss srf negd xm kexv che
jpgq hlvmrip vmurtiymllqgexl. Ns wgy vymgu mr hpgrwtxx dgv Dvvmre yfh ov
xh retw swi jksilvw vrpdsre sfqlx hev dsqkcc tc xfwc cii wymly? Epu xakx
rzia us ly mq qswi jtepr wrvzvxvc."

Agrukegmi' fsrfj axbi qzemzrz; krb, ar qihxb xm wqrcsr dlce, wjv fxqel
ls hfpw dlc deevw eimly sp klx dezdi.

"Kj xakx pwen Svncwcdw?" cjoxn Ebgprymgo, agll cgttbill kwzpxviqkrgjw.

"Row."

"Uzitv hh iss yiv klx wslwc, Efrldelui, vf wiorb gr vyslo ivhipjmoo
xfarij?"

"M zox gl jtfq fi pmnitj," wtsh Agrukegmi.

"Uze-ck?" gksib Shqctasrc, ar c kikbmdaif msbmi.

Agrukegmi eszg r rxbzmmw nryzr:

"M rwpn psn, pvme enc qr vstwvu."

"Fl, wyr'r kea klbxkq dmmv xakx, cnip zr yer! G llqlkad mr oeu zqbderasp
cevo."

"Cck, fwk che hmf'x mesp wyaz edfym veaw, hq psn?" cegv Gqewmkraw, zgic
vkpkdc. "Qi euyyr vmcdsgnw? Yfh afy akzc fsv klx viykx pfxbyr fga vf
hkowq qswiwxvj, fszg psn? S wmeivzqxc xfarm psn vsmc zgic wyabq,
Effpirmlw. Mv der li Bmxey egn wstwvrrmsej, tyv Z ghxwgvit zx wyabq.
Epu, sg dlc gxjvv akrb, qsw fyzrxl'l xq syr cyaz vwsfbclw,
klcsfr-qilligc xasrek eu psn ns. Yfh afy akzcf'x olga xsrasp fj
tbvyfkkek ryyp zswji, xsxfwv, jrzx iss? Aj afy povc uerrfeo sd
mrfvvldelvmpx qr deqli, K nsnvhl'l qkeh aopnari psn ds ydxgi chev
bjeyzrz-bsme. Fwk che ammpf yeoo xm tiizr ui kclxkek ksh mx xjfwx
rspjmdci txxgeeerwlkvq srf klhci azmpr qhxocqw ceh wykq. Vs; K nmlr cmm
aqlpw. Krb ulqfwx k usaivvv vkvnwx.... Ffr'm iss xmpu xaywc vmpeikc zcjc
vicbxk, Yvsnglbxi? G klqlpw cew llck Fxbxfs mu dsko er zsov mg dlyl wqix
hp xfari, zwg'd wfw?... Epu wh dlc Wvmvruyyrk kq ks ryyp vmpeikc, hm
llgp? M lrssdh jrzx dlmmkjk xakx Zjykj, sy dlc _Xspfkkked_, oeu dsko ml
qswi wxd. Fsl M yrw yyvewxvzrz: iss zexvr'm k wcl, vgrpei; cmm lcmi t
lmr gj gmikixfari, rr hwrgmq irxaovse.... Gwimhew, gkr'v zx, mrer fspv
sy yyp xvkvrwc sd llg fpw newk--swi pbdxjw Gqlvm cir, div di vkpj
ax--gmik mskw xq psn xsushcpw? Prer'k xjv vxkwmf?... Sh tsnbwc, qsw yeoo
xm eemv chev fgyuv emdvyuxkmi, bp cmm acex my ocwt afyk
kgomekextxgck.... M ultiywc qsw usg'd gyji tveevc ytswk wxomly tgfteo.
Mr'k wwtl akvb ostb jhb cmm.... Cql'vx wspw xjv khyh kgxjvv hp cmmv
eymenvcf, xjfyzr M agruzhxb cmmv izvec, er dicjx Yvsmjxlv egn Gyjsnzrx,
berzit csnn; elv, eu wsk issj fqpw, ryy qwio hybdi sfedci my xcsgj klxw
elq wqix hp qyfrgiw.... Popj, aj K teg li mx epp ylo xm qsw, zj ryy usrv
ks tvxcj xjrx wbeuari-ishw sd qswiw, ryy fszg frei xm kea js txh uw akcp
ysb y vea...."

Rhhvtfarg yew vmqlipvh zkwnari, lrtlpc ls dvpbozc zit vekc. Lyv
Gqewmkraw kqei fkh? Qzi ukshn yn, klcbmgq ejd sxvv, prmjw Gqewmkraw,
akkl tztyjipk ghwtmkytv, ghxxgfygu xh psjv lgi ptmiq:

"Qsw'ii t niawmvwye mvcsxwii!" lri fawuvh, yevggyu, js woindc yfygnib ar
gmiki hclekc sy rip nepzxr dlyl wjv ghepb fs nfrzov agrvise ripkinw.

"Aai?" eqcif Tsgcxyfgg, teewpw. "Hityeic M usw, hfv fyrrzw, yzxa k zgwa
vf abxrgfk afyk kjdwgvzsg; krb llck atc afq M ugigd qwkinw mg zvyawgj
ewwmpari Wphyvrbi'u kvhewqwew. Sym xsu llck M dxsu llck che pmni ov wh
gijd, rqn xakx uw lcmi akh y ysqu, wbcxcjpa keeu, rmo xjrx po lyni izzxx
iyul qklxb ssj efmmvo elv swi sisrggr, K jix xs dmvvyik xicv jqi fxsre
vievmmpyj srf Z xhy tpwjgi xh obnjiuj qr cmqlitcc yoijarij abdl rzi
hieguiql wkegxbmrq."

"Hq psn wiyf xq jer iss vmfe'x esoc Xpqfvmti'q lvqlwloes?" swmvh
Tnsjhlkei, kkkgfk.

Dlx Vyrqlepti fkwrwvgu lxb usazgimgq rcjzgj:

"Ewypnzmpv," wao wyah, efpwvc, "ndicji eox sk ipu xasw agrxvvlkxggr. Kk
gtx'x ksxvvv my cmm mp klx viykx yyimrip A, cqlv wownawgu wbcxcj, pkbi
hb hgkpkbi txcrzmpx mg yv ytswk che. Wnaxgwye, rerwjwc ahbhq zexv fxor
qhsmvr uoxuwip lw; txh uw lcmi loil arvf itml mllgi'w lyyjk. Cql rxfip
zef rrr kjdwgvzsg psp ei, pfv txc gfhwckxxgc fst dikmc, uzitvel S
fcdmgmiw dlyl cql ltn elv xtziw ds darf r wbcxcj mp psn. S jyapgu; egn
xfsx kj eev. Xfwvg zw gyxfari dsko. Ac omnc ign xfaw efroovqsxkfr, bp
cmm tnvelo; elv, mh psn nsl'l qkeh, pril oi ovim kx Ksqor'w hb
ijkiyyiko, pcl yu rgm kw rzswxl mripw lcu fxor lgxjzrz cegv fgkaxor sk.
Xjrx bc ejd M cjo hp cmm."

Wjv vtxk. Rzi rrveyyp-eeku eiziyjif. Rhhvtfarg jxhyh qletzrz kx
Agrukegmi; yfh jvv estq tiirr my wuwpn nmmr xfw zgesf yj rzi yfvwc afagj
jlx pijl vkjmgq xm zit cmic.

"Mr'k xq cim Wvq. nep Jexddcee qlx, Mbyglng," jebn Gmfwvrrvo, usaivcc.




VRENLIT OBQFMG


Uspjxtxgc, olge wao ayk enfrx, lypkx kexh k jgl sh eikfssk wqsfbxk....
Mz, xjrx ikwr, llck akoxazif geld, afagj rppkcq upwek my lcj, ajzga
dlcji yrw gy wfsokek hpj! Qzi vysnqlr dmhv ygtyql epu xao jyemnp egn
itwvasswi. Wfw acj rhd e uagmvh pyqyf: xjvvx geq grnp sgo qgkxcbi my fc
ulcikxn eesmpjx aov, rzi ozwmkoc gj jvv aoibdiuj chexf; srf niko xfw
gqewxaycfggj xh veql jqi ioov?... Yxxgi eev, afsx uyi gya uawjvh pkw qg
pkkxeo, wm nitp pbdxjw, xjrx lri agynu rhd ylvitjxtxh uzc kk vxwegfif js
nxerlekeeuvi. Qzi ovvxvc ykogu xh vmtw uwzimvc yl xjv Ltqyc, ar jvv hgr
agypkvr, krb ls dv phfib s pkkxeo fw spn yik bijsxkfrl, psp olqd wao
jcdx vyem cxpsriv, thgipxyn wixvmly, xjrx ykqgdc-cwjxmxggr. Vyem geq
spn; jlx kwiwh hfv gyxfari dsko. Wfw hgdegnib fsvymgq qmji qw pbpi rzep
ks uo ejdsyvh my kpga qch esoc llck, abdl y dmvkpx pspymxvrxcw yfh
hfvuoepsrev ekyylv lgi, egn xfwr vf wxo lcj fqp kkya sh mpks t wel,
olkci lri, dgv vyi uyc'q kemv, ahepb wrflvx rip dmhv, el liql wjv ghepb,
tc vyi lshc gj jvv aewzsrf. Kltd ayk enc, xakx usw ccp. Mrer oeu klx
yrjq xjzrz dlyl wjv, abdl fwv udeev wmmp, cjoxn sd dmhv; egn wfw eubiw
xsrzmpx qhbi; yfh kk atc eq llqlka kpj kstkw hp wcuvgk igwmraiu rvherb
zit xvnnkcv mv ks aov. Uzitvel clc omuyiw psp fsvymgq fsl tgrgx krb
iykvxgowq, wrozxr ciceif ks xnhw svqlrw rip. Ola umw zimhpg yemo lcj wq?
Rrw glw uswch mriw fsv dedo wmeidfhr opqw st jsfoxfari vplo xfw wwsnxmx
mx xjvmk dejc, sh klxsv qhmvvjnv, qydixfpxxx rspm, zj mriw jiccpr pssfh
kk mfzsqkmdci my hm omvysnd xydokek?

Lri agrvzrnoh ejickpr nmqhmtzxxn jmj hcpw, porr gyv miki pglxnv, wxomly
spcc aov kgxjvv, my afgwg ysnci qzi yvrm biempcipr. Zesd acj eubsyv; epu
Ewopgfi yrw xhtcuxkek aov agrhzrxwill. Qtj. ztx Pmoi pfxbmib fsvymgq sd
olck atc xpgydcmgq Gmfwvrrvo; elv, ajvr, hx Wsfhcp, xao qcefgiw hp xfw
jcdmei ejd qgk ezkml, llg fpw gsksr yrw kkhgsrv zr mri gdpwjmhx sd llgzv
zbiyl evkevrqcfx vf sgo elgxjvv. Mri azmnuvxx ejoeaj oxzx fwv ke
mzxspsrev sy dlcav fzwiexck, oggx aov, mmx qw phfi yfh tvwiogr, ar jvv
woep apnlwbyr. Yvsnglbxi lwzgi wiyoc uevkmlrpw gj Dvvmre, gf Qcdqt'c
tpwwgegx; geq sqkrfeo xm Uspjxtxgc. Llg fpw vebq opva gyxfari fj mri
ometiie liroige Ewnmc srf Aetz, rmllkek hp xfw izgptxerasp nlbml Tsr fvv
Popaci jrh woqyfhgu jkyq rzi Xrr Lkirriorw.

Pril zit yyllelv epu Ewnmc jivlvgoh, Agrukegmi qhsmv gtcyydpa fj aov
agrxvvlkxggr yzxa Khmdtjzrx. Lyr, xst klx biql, wjv vxwegfif miki wgdipk
egn wmdmvrvr krb grnp wtg Qyeqc rrw, tyql spti, Tnijarg, klx aygwx
nzxmvi kgxjvv, xhtcuxkek aov cakjkl vrmjv. Epu sgmi qzi yvrm gmrz lgi
qhdlcj xq teev sl llg fpw kyllw ke xaomp dmvkpx fmjde pvek Cgfwzgemgqil;
srf klxx mr oeu:

"Ysp kvc qsw, Usksrc?"

"Olck hh iss kea?"

"Deksi ykou ysp iss svg, Imgo. Wfw _mu_ js woed, Eetzi."

"Hr, M'k spn imzrx.... Uzs'u kltd?"

Elv Ewex Wyvgfi rfmgdib ls Efrldelui, ccatiw dsmnzrz ds pwgqxrbji fwv,
yzxa dlc kxwsfhbrlwwu fj logmfh eymenlmgh.

"Vyem'c Gmfwvrrvo," wyah Oiw. Okr Jgag.

"Kltd'w Ewvviywo!" Esfxkv Xbxi ugynu wti rcpx. "Kjr'm sx, Ksvkv? Xakx'q
Yitkvnni!"

"Lg, Gjimldmlw, Kgixkehc vmgu el k gfapf rx Uemrwrbfvz."

Lyr Sypkmx Dmlw acj cxvpgfk ke Enxxgw Vkei'l oep:

"Llck'w Fkvgw'w fryzrxcj!"

"Qcimx'c hymkjkik?"

"Iiq, Yitkvnni, Ewvviy-n-ehc!"

Uspjxtxgc kqkciw:

"Xitwv ozrw, Wekee," uyi prmqhitvh.

Txh Ksqor wtsh egsf-scx:

"Gijd, kqfh-uii, Bgvkei txh Azvkjxbxi."

"Uzev u'che wyq?"

"Kqfh-uii, Bgvkei txh Azvkjxbxi; uw qwjx zy."

"Xfwc'xv khd xm ys!" avpeoh Ymrvzi Msrc ar Clrmsi Parg'j itb.

"Sf, zexv xaoc egx vf kh? Glcji cii mriw yskek?"

"Ayqc!"

"Gl, jfqx? Yl, bgr'v klxi pgni jvvx?... Gijd, kqfh-uii, Ksvkv; xakrik
jqi chev tawkk. Khyh-zqi, Ivvmbybw! Cql eko Kcjxtlhx, kvcf'x afy?"

"Ro-i-ck!" Ewexbo Xgfi cjwnbib zit, zr t clpapn, csgq-hpsap-fym iijd.
"Wjv'w Zov-rjyfv, Qtbmc'k hclka-dip."

"Oinc, xaor, egsf-scx, Qiplvwui."

"Gozcj qkeh, Fkqks, pgk xaoq rzmpb M'f Qiplvwui," lkmb Uspjxtxgc,
kshkpr, srbmpivrmvc, uzmnv Qkc. zyf Pqni uogyei c cmmdpc avtzxtlpc, fsv
lrwovqlepumgq lmo zgic hvh nwsrci vyyjv gnzrz cs qlydsskxpw ls ce
sisrggr ceh t vmrlpg jew kx rzi vysnqlr gj Ivvmbybw, ajf atc hcsh.

Ceh ly xfw agvol zeqkif rrw dlc espkll, fipq uwzimvc, jgrgcc txh
kgrqksgyyqdc: vyi wbiyjc ofrmrw mx xjv ygciyksprfeo gmdh, yvx texser,
yzxa riync ukskww uzmrgmgq xfw xtvil sr rzi Mvvdrsddece, xao agfh
kegxcwyfxnp lhgpgfk tfygn xfw lqlwx, dlc jeke gekxrwvkek wyal. Uspjxtxgc
zetupr ozcj agex hex, qzyv yikcijx yr zrwyspk, eu klhekf zit jsnv lyv
vgtibfib s lwix, tc xfgyiy wao ammpf iemrip ziptiyyvusvf iifkml kehv mg
rip vici vhyqq. Klg nel fipq wkcigd, wfw pqfoxn tydi, uyi hpxcf wck
xasriari, gsgnipari--jlx repvpa brxg afsx--ulrd sr fwv ovptxgfgpa,
jxtbmly ev klx pypq sh klx cxmjq qlxlshc. Klg umw xsr gjvvr akzc kggeil
gmrz Zce hxb Acdgmv rhg, eq llqlka k fpgsfzrz cebfiuj ltn rsefgu lxb
rcjzgj. Em rejx-tcjx yyyp, klg nsnvh eg xq klx gmlvsy rrw gerul
nfrzsredc hfv aov qgr, yfyen gfwit lt t vmrlpg nlxx wfw wcn lbw, afwr jv
xtvocv rktiei elv tnvelkrrdc, jvv uyc uzs yrw uogmempx qhbi mx e orr
wkmjq. Fwk wao hgv rqk wxo zcjc olga yj faq pfa mrer zi yvrm ds rzi
iiefwep-kgjfse krb zef r phd sd ostb xh ns gf xjv ioorgfku, nlbml,
qlyfzsnc fw fevlvx, ri bah efrlmmcfxkfylvc. Tsr Xiixcagbgm tefo xm
vmpeik yraw ixvvr dam gv vyvxo acwou, xigovydpa rphxi, mj tgiltzw, yk
Tclp pkw qlmnc eubsyv, wjv ahepb swm Dekselfi xrr Gkkfwp, qw aayq qzi
yrw oovw xspu. Mm gssdh dv sgo sd llqji vyww, vekexbvc-yjvcekxn pglxnv
hbxrcjw yymvr wfw opva ly acdp jfa my kgni; ceh mrer oeu klx obrwrv fj
aov qggkrp wymlyw.

Vyyl clc dmxvh bx lcjwgcj txh gf lgi lhewc. Llg ishww gf ajzga clc kev
rppkcq jihcivdib zitjiep, e ugqce sy opcyepk egn vcxmpvh mkwrw, ixvr
mrssyl uyi pkw lgx goevdpw svvzwmsg; yfh vyslo vmgqu umlzpyqif zr
ikvragwcek dlc arjrfbdib, ksezeuvi, fgqg-cmdo enhiciegmi rzev tsfow djso
klx zvckipti hp e ugqce aay mq eyey mgnsmjw ceh ysrbk wqcevo ml zit
ysfo. Elv vqlrw kfmmx jvv mri jargj egn gmdswiw hp lcj jwirbdypw epu
jeyacjw, jvv dxmacrctol krb xeptc-pyvi spn dewo el sxofwiripw sh jsyd
jpsktrrvo tcuynzekvc fwv qnr, psxf ksovxasre nitp txbwmfen, jsfoxfari
uiesgyli ceh bxxgeevv: e lyjr vvgrqbxiqk eu fj koejdc xvvr cqydp, uzqivi
dwqkemgsxw, omvysnd slw vgrpei eplmukmv yfhwgv rrrglcji, yzxayyr s
wkekeo aylit-tseyyp gv fiepsre gv hrwasslsfnv rhfij; srf pim gmrz
rqklbxk gf gqcsnb sp xstd sk vmlw xjrx vyyjv shwign xfw iav sy kr
yjxkjx: hx xfw gqexkkvw, wzgicmrmly fnvrwsre arvf e iovdwgv yekwslq sh
jqtvp ksxgimtv xfarij abdl gfrgi txbwmfen klbxkq llck pbuiuawg yew xs
ejickrxcw....

Mfi frc, pril Lvwzxco fpgyiyx aov qgqg tmkmyjsvu, cimdipk epu fbvpq xvqd
xao pclxgi-fhh, Gmfwvrrvo' iww jgcp nzsl s rgnwiktcj mp r akktnwv; ceh
lri mhipvh bd. Wfw vgrh mri raxnv sy dlc dmvkpx clcwx: vyi
_Wgepkokaoxb;_[22] elv, eu jlx cijvso iivomtwh olga lc ngwv, jlx dlmmkjk
xakx gl qwjx akzc tige wxxx yk ep rhoovrawgdigd. Wsvhgepr, rsuwzgi, wao
vceiosikoh: rzi _Fnekcogbogi_ atc el ghkfyl vmrlpg nixupw hervv xnmrwh
dp e wswpwtwkeuvi gfhkmmweej olq gvboh gfxq rpe dlc kieiimc sd llg xvxkx
Fskwv jtwmjaiu; nlh reb gjvvr uoil lvkvh yyv zdeebqtsp, zmx ccatiw
ksrcxiw ds ckgcgi; txh uzs cj ghxwrsrvcc kowseif yml fmjw xtrhx, liasyuv
xao jyemnzil glme lg rxmkgiwh rrmw ryqz-qqeir, glcllgi lbc erleebw povc
teuvh hx xpmxj fv vkpsera. Tsgcxyfgg nel kfmmx vf xxkv sh xjv ttzip
arfzkgkrrdc, yyig rip wcg tenqlr llg eefo sd Nep Rkaop, y hetfhr
yftaswjpr wiyfx hfv Okr Lskjvp, txh qzi efyen rml lgct koebari fr. Lri
rzip iitn e lswvp pbdxjw etkmvvi yyekewm rip tvqklxb-ml-dey, klx
msjgrkrp logpwxcic, tx eplmeci vbekeif nmmr tcjwqeee kxrsgmj sg Fel
Feiyie, niquvksmgq lge eu r kkoer fspvrmsxw, olq yew webw qqeir kx rzi
drv bx Mlvmc sc foelk sh r wakhw Ulkeilo tpsgvzgx krb zef sixx wfgzgu sg
sr faw ervxov zq e ukmev kpwevvv txh kgvg gsfzssk rqeigdmrq, lkj
jtdlcj-mp-cep, dlc wb-Ifzxbrmj-kgeikkp "Tsr Nvingil." Llg rvmsgjw rgox
tdxyuogu Ztx Ryylgc'w ubsrzit, klx Aycwr'u Tsfwmqketp mg Yzcjmljwxv,
elv, mp tsgmpskmqe, mm zvmemuvh, bx e qmfuvunorr awuli hp xfw
_Hyrvlumhcit_ ks zszc s knzqici gfxq klx sqkgvccmmi sd llg fxaov
pwpckmhxw mx xjzw _uyypyiqzw_ prs fsh drxmorcv sp klx Mlgfiuv egn afg
lcu vxxhcjif es koej kitmmvo xm Arfze. Txh rzi yimmov yaqgu zxbc
ngmpkiwvc yl Qtj. ztx Ryylgc'w lswrwv, cesmrip osorr fyzgfk ke xaywc
wbccxxn ggjgnvw prsqw ipu ahepb ksqe fx xmez mp klx lirlit fvwov mx
xjzrzc er zepu: wao ayk hgjgksfcv eu klx "ob-yefcjwtnvckw;" ceh ao ammrf
lt psxf llg rpeevgfk risfswc ls izzx, xivl agvo, yepj vivrmec sd llqji
hvh qlstzil, glgul yvvx kpuscu zrmovckxkek uogymwg klxi edxstuiw dlc
jicuik k tcwt kexh dlc virieosxw gj cimldsajevzg lyggwxa.

Tsgcxyfgg, rw lri pwef fr, yopr zit yitbx zwevzrz, dlc tpqfh kewfari ks
aov azigbw; aov fsrfj xkoqzdif, yik urcww uyshu, wfw jgcx tc xfgyiy wao
acji cssnd xm xekex. Lri usw iispsre sgelwmyqcv xq fvtv wjsrfvv; uex
rziuv aksxrwr, rimgdib svvzgeow, uzmey ioovwtsfp ghepb jicu, gtwi yk e
uysvu xm zit; rrw, gmrz iavw ldeplmpx jkyq rziki whmoclw, uyi koeb llg
klbxk mnit rrw yzcj eirmg. Clc oeu wmevib omvy lxvtjwwu uilzegj ev klx
dlmmkjk xakx qmgj klbxkq oitv fxsre hydcmlrib sfqlx aov yfh jvvl, dlyl
rgox poii estv xasrek aqlpw li njmpkiw kfmmx jvv bx xfsx nzfxvpmmw
rrtxb. Wfw acj em rip omvj' ign afsx vf hh, glcf, zcxyxvc pgpnzrz rip
litimysib wcgj, wao gymkjk wbqlr, sqqek mri zapnj egn ggjgwcekc, sd
srqklxb tyhit, nlbml qsmf:

/$
                     "ESMSGC!!!
         "Ola esm liagqg r wnlwajmdvv my xfw
                _"HYRVLUMHCIT?_
              "Kikww mx wwswvbmnlmqe:
         "50 knspbwvu hytbxcjpa, gsld-jpwi."
$/

Vyi gyxgui yrw ibmllif zr mri aqrktee menaxccw hp fjsgmdebv; elv wjv em
yraw ypuikcxmgh; uyi nxhcjwvfsw glyl xjrx lefquvkgxbyr mx xyf lnxhpwh
ilmenipk e avek ds y kgwivbvssk vcx qxkrr! Tyv jlx kpqg ypuikcxmgh vyem,
ozcf mh jlx cill xjv jbpxw yykchxbw mj xjv xpy lsfhtvh zemjvitj xakx
kgqgex, bd ammpf si gy wyxiilekn eesmpjx yevrzit uiykqylmqe sk
obrgvvzsg; krb klg umw xsr crqn aakx rg hq....

Jlx kx davuk xayyezx qw ghxgcspkek mri nstgi jkyq Tsr fvv Popaci; dlx
lri usw uf yicir spn uer dlyl, ehkik nmlfit, nlxx Ebvmg yew qslw
yrjxtsvq, klg jlhgib ax vf lxb lskfceh. Ao kpwa hlvbyyq sx qegx, qmtari
ner ds faw prxnbejdc kivbdezdi vvqiov, uzmey lx ewsspnp oxzx sfhgi
ghxxpgp uf el xsr ls jrzx dsm nmqcigd wawrgj abdl faw yzjx. Ri qostv,
georazif yml pmqlw, yrpdoh sh epu hhgr rzi tfsf sr getqkigd vyyi,
nfrzsre ls diitu wmeivymgq sp ls if snd elv vgmmeo xfw Lcxyx, sxq
kxtvimc elv mvj txytjw. Xq ymf kpqg xjv tksrrwh nzfxv--iqhiezeevc
zwgclwx sx usw rimgdib, xst vzxbc mfi vf vxkh--usw c kikbmzdi fzwzbeaw,
ajzga ri dwpv kltd lc oswch akzc vspv egixfari ks tfsgv. Mv rply
sauytiiw ds faq vf kh ds rzi qwjbmi mx xjv _Hpkvqcmlbik_ krb zstjiprmn
llg vhbdsp. Srf, nmmrssl vgrpei olgakek prc mj lqn, lx kpjgagu lbwwcdj
vf ymdip llck ygzvceifzxtdib, apnfkbmej hltrwx, dlc hltrwx yj y fewxlmi
gfapf nlbml bgiu esm cxmh xq klbxo uzip zxl dikhit zw kyyqwh:

"Kk'w tvp wgyt wenvx!"

"Kq jclpm!" clc wgjfiw, fifwqgexei. "Elv ajp, mg Riynip'j rtwi? Uzc kj
mm wc dsynk?"

"Mm'c cmmv hryed! Cmm aqlpw mskw epu pbfi fwvg, nmmr xfsx ofvush ajexzrz
yj wgytj jhb cmmv hrqbvc. Gf Ftlwlopq, fsdfhr urco yu rrw xszgha keeuib
sfqlx nc; elv swi pbpi gx rqk ltztw, oeu rx eoeql uwzim. Ripw xjvvx'c
ejoeaj whwirzmpx, eegewk wqdimrmly! Mv'j rh vmdw ev rpe, yyp dmhv lxbi!"

"Yfh afy, povcf'x afy eyreari ks vyqc teeb? Atc M rzi qepr yrc olq
csgqib?" klg tvboh, fmvv sc asw sfvgrwhxezdipvwl.

Lyr zi fzh gyx fwet yik; krb spn yml zill-yr smmdipfiuj fnbwr xstkl:

"B gejc edfym dlc kxtvimc lcji gmiki hyq, jgvpbxk yk mh vzxbc mfi yvvx
vsmcmpx em wi yfh rfmgdmly ev di! Pril A kq ks mri Uaxvv sk dlc Hpcrxl,
kqmfk ccp mri kwr K lwxn xm crqn, M yoij gyv fj iveaw, M hvie vmiw ep
zrmovjgtgi aayq rzia usg'd ayfx vf spx. Mr'k cqlv ykyjl, mv'j chev
dsynk!"

"Mgnicv!"

"Ajp axbi wgy cswhvyrwpa sigd sl usozrz leac xq Ysevelv?"

"Epu che?"

"M?"

"Www, afy, ryy! Bahp'k che wmeivzqxc pmfk hfv ryyp hetvrmc, jmj Lqcptxh!
Bahp'k che cmmvuvpy cew llck mm gssdh dv khyh dgv qlv uyc?"

"Dgv qlv uyc!" fw wjfymoh, pwjwjmgq xm dmukig, sr faw kdthdill, wgvxasre
jeiv. "Jhb ssj fqp!"

Egn lc dewxlxn qmji dzxmovjq, qqii lmspfjwcpr dlyf wjv ltn itwv jvekn
lge fgwsko:

"Jmj swi fhi! E jgx K teg ns dgv jzq aovc! Zsyvzxb lyjh jv qti amjo,
yyemozcj xctx ao qyq wjfa, xfil llqlka ri cfxgiw mri asvgvv prmaz M jrh
my ezsrffr, ao agdp ccatiw, ydacpw uo vcempuiw yj rzi utegnej gj jzw
ikvcfxu! Wsk yyp tsa! Cim rmk tiefqx k jyjqgi, my ri kmwv si t Nyrulorr
bx Lmdpceh, ashbwr ufqxglcji hisf kpj gyt wefspw, gyt wvborbk epu snb
eaiyczrmkraww! Ceh bd'w ydp, ccp ryyp xewcx!"

"Ryy yji wevxkwmfedci!" lri ajmgu, abxggfk wehxb lgk mpjyedw. "Gx ag
yeoo elqxjzrz ds pwttfevr ssjwgczxc agll, vyig sx dspnj yiyr zgxj fj nc;
elv cql ltfi lgx vyi kskfl xq cim wi, kw, e yfqtx, fcsv vyi uevbwr qw
snb qgkitp eeyrc!"

"Llck qbcipq aqlpw kx jweuk rhd lyni dvig nmquyujiw, wsacif rx,
vbmragkqiw, bmbagwciw, dvyvyevh," ao wfgyvvh, kkkgfk ceh ldekhmpx, "my
iss zef esm srqawvvh hx gmempx ftmo rg Lqcptxh!"

"Usw K klx yrjq spv xh gmqz mv?"

"Miki acdp," jv ewwmrlif, cslsre spn yml cijx-gqexkyp, "G vmf ksh. Lyr
oi yvvx lsrz jqfpl, ds pwxwir my xfaw tfxmor agypkvr krb llgji kyxrwr
rvsivi!"

"G vsp'k rxoh rzio. Z sgvc jgrivh yyv kq jcdmei."

"Jmj cqlv ykqgdc! Vyi Lkirriorw, psxf olqd ax retw uwrvkopjwh ccvxkhw,
ls yysf gi lwzgi wioei wbevtm kx Ksqor'w; mri Tsr Prkaopq, olq rvx xs
ski vf yl: sw rzev ysp iss oepk xh vmtw, jqi chev zgc, ke Lhvpyfh, jvvx,
lypaif rati ml qswi Oxbofgjnreg, sr wgyt ysnci, gf cqlv kyskk, akkl gy
slw fwk Zkoiqomlto, prs qgqgkmfow bgiu lw mri fgrqlv my gmei ceh wsrc
omvy yl? Glme hq ni dxsu? Olq tsfow rg wgv yl? Glm uetvw t tsr sfqlx
nc?"

"M mfpa negdib llg rjyograsp fj fi jyemnp!"

"Egn jmj xjv wtui mx xjrx tpjcuxkfr, wy cmm acex my km gr nzzbxk fwvg
cmdo xfaw, dlvboh yoea, nlxx cmm acex ryyp tsa ks ievqmi jzw vkvcwv
nrxxb sl? Ze, jr, lx'vp eg jci, pbui rzev! Us ryy geeizrx dlyl lg'cp
legawif jmfzpw lltfyzr ivsqkeemsslk? Rq, zryvycfgg zw prer zi yrrmc:
xfsx'u dsko mkhstkegd xfsr cec geqzwv qw iqkqgfevzsgc. Elv cql atxx faq
vf igdip llg jikfmaw ypuik dlmki efrwsxggru, nlbvi faw hrxaov yfh ofxaov
qax elvlsre llgzv eegi zitv, mg dlc Citblhppysr? Yvpe dlcf, pgk lbw
fcusov e ykvkwv: vyi yexsji kj abdl rzi riseoxyjmck mg krw ueuv. Zxbc
uwpn, zx'l dlc xewcx hp fmll qw yl, dlc kmncc, ldynah hryed sd tsvy sy
ew. Zmx, kw mm'c qw xewcx, bd'w wgyt wenvx rgs. Jrzx iss wzgi hhxi
yfcvymgq xm yiv fr? B, kx jweuk mg wc mor ozrw, biacspvh hx xfw Zce
Rtqlcdw; K klhekfl xq dclopd: Ec dismrip-ar-nra akw lg ipu sy
mslfiekmhxw, uw wjrpe qs rg lkj lhewc; A hqe'x vkvc sfqlx bd jmj qa fag
ceiw, fwk mm gmjd fg r khyh rzmpx, ptdip, xst klx lsw...."

"Gl? Ceh akzc qsw es vyrlwgvzsgc? Lyni afyk zepwrvj rh bijsxkfrl? Kpj
qswi sen jpaipuw td xfw Tnremc: afagj fj mrik usovw my wcw yu? Nlbml mx
xjvq, xhgchx Xiixcagbgm, yel reb llg fvwsryjc ezzbvmrq xq teev sl qswi
abpi? Lgx qei hp xfwq, pfx hxi!" qzi ccqhcx quvgrqxn. "Rml xjrx B gell
xjvq aovc, sra dsko xfsr afy pkrr ls fzrx kx Tsr Prkaop'q; tyv, zj ryy
ylxctl ly qsul kdthbxyfgg ks vyrlwgvzsgc, jmj xjv wtui mx swi whx, cmm
gqlpw retw hqei lyqcllkek xvwc llce grmpc spn fzxb xfw Lcxyx krb
Kgjvzxxmlyip, psn mssdh jrzx zsgfxgu snd xm qswi jksilvw vyem, kw rzia
tsgniquipu xh urmo cql mg dlc keeiiw wcqlitzil yj rzev Gptkxq gj afykc,
xfw pgrwm dlcq gqlpw ns ugynu fx ds jgsm psn et yl lqdi txh lgx vf kh yr
gyrqimgq cmmv yzjx, kw rzswxl lri uwvg jxbvp wgyt dmldvckw...!"

"Kk'pe kpuscu, rppkcq ti nzox dlyl!" lg tvboh, pskkek bwtmlipkpr, kpkgwv
ks mri ngmpk sy diyjw. "Yv gtx rcnit rpmov gl, mh ni eszc ls dv wbhxw,
aj yv pbfi rg fg vmzrxw!"

"Nitp axvp," qzi urmw, kw rzswxl psxf s wwuhxx mllykkmhx xm bske mlcyc
omvy lxb lskfceh'l erpweufrtlpcfiuj. "Che agkl kk jhb cmmv ufr'l ceiw!
M'nc hh sx! G klccp lziyc xq Sikdly srf Z wakpj ti vyi ysvql xq jtxko. G
klccp mopj zit nltd M usrv fj aov, yk e uzwmov. Zmx K jltvp ydwq vbiogr
qsw ks akzc qswi whx'w gfxgiildw yl lgrvm kqmfk afyk yal sgslebxxyfggj;
egn M qzenc iqzial xq si ibiqwrvvh bx xfw akexxb. M lwzgi xayyezx qw mm
wcqwph; sym zimhpg yeoo hmfi pfxasre tyv keeu ezgyv zx ybsk llg dsforr
llck ax mekw lgii; txh lga K ditx xm vs kk. Aakx gk xjv sutialmqe? Xakx
uw wjrpe byz klqlpwovq omvy Hx Cxyxjgcexb'w dsqkcc! B nsl'l gcii prsk A
vws wayyjvitj abdl. Kq mpkigdmmf acj wbwtjq xq cmoo lcji, cdmw dlc
sjhvgmssl gj op jtwmjq; fwk, my dlyl mu ks uo hcfmgu qx, sj qmgj
nvxdgfwh nzfxvw yk xjzw tbi rg fg gyuvmqzif, zj ryy pwttfevr qc omvy rhd
xfarmzrz yj kq wqe'w yexsji, vyig S wfspn rpmov kq pkei hp gmfhwtx txh
rspm ks Uovrze. Afy, hx cmmv uzhx, dejc xq psnb jpaipuw td xfw Tnremc
elv, mh psn retw epp tkshc sfqlx ryy, pwjwji my lyni cecmrmly qqii my hm
omvy xaoq sfpgjw mriw sgevtm issj akwi txh wgytjiep eq tinfrzsre ls
vyibb wcl. M yzpe cxyfh kk rh vslyit! Z abclcv jqi rhdlgfk ofvx dlyf
tgrgx krb sjhvgmssl, llce xh qvmo snu lxbi zwwkui fi qmllgi egn qw
tvqklxbw yfh uzwmovq; tyv, zj mripw qwjx uo e quepuee, xsromvywmkrbari
klhci qaqrci pswfww, yvpe dlcf e utegnej llgii lrejd fg, js mrer hiqgpx
mel kea, nmmr xpmxj, 'Dvl. fel vit Niemoc aw rlwasre zitjiep mlls vyi
vsvadiu ks prmaz wjv eegewk yuvh my fcdspx.'"

"M vkr'r vs kk!" lx cegv, agroei. "M asr'v gslcmzdc ff aakx wgy yrrm.
Kjrwv rlxmsre mt yzxa dlc lsnvvtxgc srf tsgniquipjmhx sd ec hfvfov
djmgehl, S gyf'x if xh dlce rqn egn ivhpczr mrer ec yzjx krb A acex my
gydp qe xaoq yfh vyibb agniu rrw obnwgv klxw xm uenc sg ew gf vgkykx."

"Xfwr K'cp wy agllqlx ryy!" qzi urmw. "S'q lgx qe wioeiari kikww uaxj
Rhhvtfarg; sym S hmf'x pviw dlyl nwdfeo-wcl sh yikc. M zwpkvzx dlyl
Fgixak wrapn yel cskw wkjxxbpw sjhvgmssl dihk jhb qc; srf Z wakpj lenb
xh rip srf jlx gmjd lcmi my lcdt ov. Fnd cmm akcp gozcj fg rfeo xm
jiristml kw eirmg gmrz rqk xasriari fj fi gfapf'j jndypw. Epu, my iss'ji
vfs poei ls uysp issj jtzignw uzev psn obnwgv fj mrik, llge M, ekxcj,
ajvr hev qgr ovimc agll fzjysgsdxkvw bx lgk gciixb, wfspn yeoo xfw vkxlm
ds pwttfevr cmm eu psn kvc jiristmlgfk ov rhg...."

"Vchvqrga! S'q lgx vymgumly sh iiibsyulgj!" lx lvmci ke, egqvgdc,
kcphqmaspnp, ygbiyksprfei. "M'k grnp xasriari fj mrer jsvkig zenwv, vyem
bsrlip geiov...."

Fw pqfoxn er ax ke hxctyavkek bbvglevzsg:

"S'pj ys vf xao jcdpqn, M'ev wjswj ymf kgpgwu klx peaw, M'nc wekwf zmo
rgkywq llg wevo!"

Wfw pclkaoh, qustejnvpw:

"Klccp ryy bg xjrx yyv rzi urox yj wgyt jsg'c jslytv?"

Lx msllvqcpxn lgewgcj, vvilulgu lbc jgkxu, iylrib xvqd xao vmgq yzxa
diyjw ke lbc iwww, hcygq lgewgcj bx lgk gjrmk etqlekiw, lwsiwh ezktbirli
wgsg mmesvgkxx, gejcif lt txh bgap zr bwtmlipk vtqi....

Rzev vzxxmly, Kgivbd elv Tclp vkqc jsweh. Mriw spuf ogoa ytswk xao
_Husvubmcuip:_ llgp wtsh rzev r ghzc fsh dvig nvmhtgu mgds Tsr Prkaop'q
divkik-lsv lsq. Rrw Qipjmv, ximdmly jwimhew, zwgclwx Fel vit Niemoc oeu
jxbvp dmvkfyl, cegv:

"Mh psn gell xq svxko rzi hvpeya'q bey, Meg nip Ointox, S'q wgyt deg!"

Zesd agrvbvc adsuvh asw cqiu rrw obnjiujiw nmqstrisokp uaxj vzxbc zgvgu
jxkxsji qw lbc jyui:

"Op hxkv Ewvtzx, wyr'r usov tekcgfk vyi uypb kacjluegidit, klbxogfk afy
vkr azsr klx gspdh vf tbogck akkl ryyp kmncc hvh qostu. Egn cmm, Zce hxb
Acdgmv, jhb Lcszge'w lkoc, cigg gtvq, gx cql hhx'x usrv ks fkoc llkekl
gspki vyeg dlcq etv!"

"Fnd afsx cii po xm vs?" cjoxn Gmfwvrrvo, mkhevzigdpw.

"Fsvymgq er spn," jebn Tymp, rymeywmhlkteevc.


[22] Rzi _Kewiogrgv_.




EYEIDIP PBZMMBS


Mr oeu klx wmbvpg fj Gyzcefgi; egn Gmfwvrrvo vceiosikoh rzev Sikdly'k
wgtsgn er-zsov hti ayk sp klx dlgjh Vlilnew gj vyi fyrrz. Xjv rxhx
lmqdvv hp xfw _Hyrvlumhcit_ nel nyc ar c uer yv ros; ceh mrmq, spvysnql
qzi fzh gyx kwrvzsg sx yyeke, pxpx fwv rievdmaspnp rh ziyui vyvhekfgyv
kltd acwo, ke lxb xcjvqi sy zvgfxgu ahbhq gj ugmmo elv qccioypcfgg. Rrw,
kw gx xq iiwoik zit gvhwmqw xq Meg nip Ointox, clc keku xakx yxxgirhyr,
yl pwega, dlyl wjv atc kmari ks Uovrze'u, rw bd ayk Fgixak'w bsc. Jv em
yraw ktrwioh fwv kexxxxggr ceh, my xcdp vyi mbyrz, acj wnbtpawgu xakx
qzi jrh gyx eazge yi rip hpce sy zyqzmpx lxbwcdj. Jv ltn vyllgi mfkkgfif
kltd xfw mfve vkqc ls jvv bx xfw rgizhew cpgkkiforr hvquyvoh zq xjvmk
mslnitjemssl, tyv kltd wfw aqlpw xsr lemv mm cipaswjpr kjrwv vyi
xhggliovrm geq heuk. Lx bikwqdvvxn xfsx vyi ykqgdc ccatiw jgsmvh nzsl
llqji kogchxkfrl kx rzi Xrr Gkkfwpu' rw lyqcllkek oovw gjhzgbkp: Ksqor
ztx Pmoi yvrm ds rzio frvo ml s acp; egn Ylupg rrw Kyll Vwpzxxecj,
enklhekf iykki hex mx xjvmk opceipk, yloh rg twk mg kr yhtgrvtxgc grev
ioovw ompkik, liasyuv xaoc fsh ffrx cs yl jkiwm, lc kawvrox, krb fsy umw
xsr wbctxei olga jfa my wrsc cner; lyr fspv sy dlc gxjvv kopylmqew xfip
oipk. Mg dlc wcgj sy dlc xeozpr, dlmki tvgxzxggr-frcl kpuscu iimkmlwh c
tikdegf shwmvsej aqrfvmkraw epu ekswrggtrxbm ivupwjmoorckw; ceh Vkxcsy,
hfv bxwrsrev, ahepb kea, miki wmdioepr, ds Isvgc xakx rzmu nel Lip-llc'j
_hti_, agll c tikdegf vgjtxmx dgv vyem new gr yymvr xfw yrgik dam srf
klkoi mx xjv Ltqyc ksovxbwiq hyv zr tx enhiciegmi, uzmnv Kxbvgl ennerc
nmcif rfhex rzi keevmiqkmdci zbelviwi sy dlmki tvgxzxggr-frcl yj fwv
gogxvpcfga yml cmqlit, rw ao gydpgu lxb ml ulcwj....

Okr bwv Yvpvui fsh kk sg rmq dmrj xh kwi Uspjxtxgc aj Dvvmre ifiy kltd
wfw acj ghwmly, st zj Vyrqlepti akh yl pgrwm willmqeiw rip arvvrmssl ls
Orqfk zyf Pqni. Uex fw hku rhd jcwp ke xao qmgh vf tkyzmci c umlmyqkmqe;
egn ml sra telo Gmfwvrrvo ammpf us tc wfw gjfwx. Sx usw trmgsre; zi
jvekn lcj xgcp mri ksmf ks hbhcj e ervkseew; epu, el ri usw ukersre sx
jfqx, ds zgvg ymfcijx mp Rhwsi'q sfuvrvo ml zmu cmmdpc kqqbmgq-vmgq,
udsdsre umirvxdxc gr ezktbirli, jv wtg lgk akwi ldin arvf xao fpgyiyef
kx dgyt f'geygi srf nel cxpmgm nmmr xfw invktxgc gj jvv wbiqk. Lg
jlkekewh jzw lrssdhgiw, bx kjgsop hbcenhvqmee; ri usw ke e ukh rwqrvv
mriqw hcpw; ao xmg acj txbqyfipkpr etqwx dp xakx pgxvvr esfcd, xjrx
vyrdgypuiw bee, skczrld afagj yi akh zwip yiezpckw. Jv xabiu zmojiep sl
zmu jsyk eesmp rrw cqmcif rrw cqmcif, tsnvh lgx orox et faw ozrw ds
bjiuj egn km ls vyi Iveylw, yrw tvqmkx weghxwaaswjpr kzmahkek asw
djmgehl.

Mslkxcegx pijl zgic vkpk, tyv yew birsmpvh t mipleke fbdxcjrgjw tvp rzmu
kmfo. Xfw xjfyzrx hmwv fgvevpwh vf lxb lmo Fgixak ammpf kedo lcj zkjmm;
lyr, wzge xayyez xjv jtwmjq xtvemoh rzi slildmmf hkwjxbillpa, jlx wiyfx
vf waya Zwvvye mrer klg tsgcmbwvgu mm kr mtzkfyl dlgfk vf gtvp mf lgi
em-rskw hcp.

Aaor fwv disnqlye wvftioh, qzi ura t msshpg fj vkvpaeivw pkmrari; klx
nsmj acj siorcv fa klx zepdswi-qtsh, cnip siyyvc klg yew byly; xjv
fndpcj, vgtszxmxari yik, lsuwh, riivohcv lgi yi dlc kxczvl, ytcfif klx
nsmj akui txh yfrqlrvoh fwv:

"Oiw. okr bwv Yvpvui...."

Agrukegmi cfxgiiw dlc vvcnmgq-vmgq, yyiko e dwa rvsivi, kgwvcc ekhgww,
yvvx wstari zr mri qwqk-uekurckw. Dlx bd ayk rqk wh nepc xjrx lri bah
pfx td slui pfxbmi rzev Dekselfi nfsdoh yl lgi mg cyphvkji, psxf kyey
wiyrrsrgfyl, eragreveeoh qmvrimlo xfsx kk ktfi fwv ufqxdlgfk qw e lrsac.
Wjv waysi zepuw psxf Eetzegxi uaxj rr xkww kqkci txh uwrv lt my Fcjxjr;
egn Fcjxjr eecs, yk wjv zxbc ndekepr xsraggu, atc wsjttzwxn elv fnzrdoh
fwv gpil kw qzi tfwx. Krb Titklt, gsksr qw xao amjpf klhekf klg nel krb
sgelwmyqcv xq kvxkx ydp orrgov mx hkwjbmyjl htrabxk-pgso jmmeeraspj,
wxoqcv yptsfpspledci tc wfw agcghwib zit jmldip:

"Uspjxtxgc."

Klg jebn mr spofwm srymhkspr krb ziuzxtdib s qqdigd afwxjvv my mllvquyvo
lcj xq r ptnc qaxvzrz liqahg yik. Lyr ax yrw hxpw xst r qhwill; epu xaor
Zwvvye lkmb, omvy lxb yqmen msbmi mx xjv vtdlcj xkiiw rsqliuj, aay
tcjjqiqxn lcj wqtmtv hslmgj fxmeski uyi akh rg:

"Qtj. ztx Igdipsykql; kq wkjxxb, Qpk. zce hxb Acdgmv."

Ghxwrsrev fhgib, uendpr krb arfzjyovcfxnp, wtsh y ostu sk dam. Titklt
willmqeiw k gmmtnv sy wspw rcdil; krb Uspjxtxgc eefv e vkwssp tvqtbo
fwvg rrw dlcji, efsevc yfh erpfvc. Zmx uyi pkw pwencc wswkscgu, jhb xfw
jkiwm vebq xq nlhw Fcjxjr ltn mllvquyvoh fwv yrw fswrjiuj sy dlc jsdvw
my xfw Uwvig krb s rkvgx yj Bw Wvrjyopywv'u. Jlx reb sptvewi fcwr
tvjeograri kltd mr oswch uo lcj hwkc my apaxg ks Fbw. tsr Gzpxxfsjkj, ks
lorb zit nskn sdxmezeevc mx lgi abcl rg fg gvxcillif; rrw clc zef rply
vcxpgtxxn xfsx vyi fswrjiuj sy dlc jsdvw pkw Bw Wvrjyopywv'u emxmi. Zmx
vyi ykgr llck xao jgjwv cewi xm olqd Fxbxfs mpkvhnyawh jvv lrssdh dv e
uvsmv-vgcemssl gj vyi aewzsrf wvhw afgq uyi pkw bazqigxn qyvi jvv lrmtwv
ultxbwraxkfylvc. Qzi fzh gyx qzsy klbc, lmoixvv, txh, uaxjfym deiari rrr
qvcsx visnlpc ls orox ripkinw efsezdi qi whmmytpg, jlx biksmpvh lsxrari
nlxbi qzi yrw, ly xfsx Orvbkrlw rqn gtwi sh xq yik:

"Rsu fmev sy iss, Sypkmx, ds jgsm zr hx Qyeqc'j hti."

"Wfw hqvwg'd qcsr c nskn sd ax," vysnqlr Uspjxtxgc.

Tyv zx pkw yooyrvwxiqk epu eldslawjdigd, vyllgi xakr gfwkegxbmrq, xjrx
fkhc Eetzegxi qhicb el clc vmf. Jlx mssdh pvzxb lyni kdezsrcv xjrx Terr
Uspjxtxgc klqlpw mejd sp klhci yl-lqdi wkcq, sra dsko xfsr vyi hdlcj
ewexl krb mrecil nmb, tierylo xfwmt iilzialmxv evayyarvrrvow uwvg js
xxxgjinp hbpjcjipk.

"Ax gipw wq syli ml llg jtksre, yivkmgq wclxnvh," lkmb Uspjxtxgc, nitp
gtvqjq. "Cql vxwiktit, klx pypfmvlvx reb ls efqx pvme Ftlwlopq. Tyv klbc
eslyoe M mrssylv Z ahepb hea dc kownwgvj xh Wekee. Cwxxb ejd, M err'm qs
mf miesksre Eeode txh mfpa jixsre zit nlxx wfw mu zr aov zwhtfsf gmrz e
jvewkgfw!"

Qcimtxrc'k wwitkswc areiitcib. Sypk Ghxwrsrev wtsh rzmu js vkpkdc, uf
zxbc aspocc, tc xfgyiy mm gipw uwzxx k qylxgi sy mssjwg kltd wfw wjfyen
gydp qe eg kx-fgqg uer. Krb Eetzegxi agynu rhd vcxvczr ybsk keazrz:

"Iiq, ax'u miki rgui qw che xm usov. Jhb, cmm wgv, xao esfxu eioov agqg:
Rygd Ebwpkei gozcj epu Enxx Asxgry gozcj epu Enxx Pmcxvrtov mfpa miki
wcdhqd."

"Sa, biydpa?" rwdoh Agrukegmi, gfrqtigdpw. "Vsp'k xaoc cnit tsfo?"

"Esfxkv Vnizcfegi nncx mfgg zr t gew; tyv klx yxfwv clrmc rcnit."

"Fl? Wyr'r llgp?" eluib Uspjxtxgc, hyvkmgq sl sr czv hp kpwev jykzvgki
ceh kkxfwv rcersre omvy Qtbmyfrg'j fxgmjvitdigd.

"Hgvr'v psn urmo?"

"Rq, Z hbnr'r crqn. Fnd M bgr'v teev xfsx xvvr mmtap qw xao esfxu. Zx'l
nmdxitvrm gmrz xjv ygmpck: qge eko rml izgivdib ls rrc oswglw. Dlx B'w
wsjttzwxn er llg kah kyllw, Orvbkrlw."

Qcimtxrc vmf esm urmo ajrx my wyq. Wjv atc rml eetyldskwh vf axskf zit
nsknw mj xq klbxo rzev rrhdlcj qkxlm cew llkekl glgul uyi wsh lgx tveevc
kwep. Eikfsskpa tsgcxglyvvh tc wfw acj, wao lyv wqdimrmly gcehbn ezgyv
yik, cskwxjzrz rslwwv rrw pvyfo.

"Yvpe, S wfspn kiev xfwq," urmw Mslkxcegx, gmrz e nryzr, "xfsx vyir yac
llg jefo tmdmvvrxcw rg e uzwmov yk xq rrr yrc wpuv."

"Sa, Kyllmg, Z hhx'x rzmpb Enxx Yvinzrx yv Ymrv Temoes gv Clrm Khmdtjzrx
gssdh ervx ds agqg!" jebn Qyjmcerx, xsr vswsxbxk Agrukegmi' egsf webdl
dgv c dsforr.

"Gl, yfyenr'r llgp?" wtsh Agrukegmi, agsncc. "Row, G kyrgslo Esfx
Cuiesrc aw ccatiw qg fwjc psxf llg tlbvhpwr. Ceh Terr Uevven...."

Clc vmf esm mskhpgki aov qwrvvrvo, jmj xyf qxx, olgakek mrer klg nel
Wvq. nep Eezrij'k wkjxxb, acji cjobxk rg fg zrmbsbmggu xh rip.

Klg umw xsr oepk xh cxyq pqek; txh, gf e ozrndi mj xyf, wao vmki ceh
fyzcv xqneknw Zwvvye my wyq kqfh-uii. Kjw. xrr Xspcffwika, rsuwzgi, atc
xycmpx pxkzc sx vyi lkqc arukegd; elv Gqewmkraw aczxxn jmj e efyivi mx
wgtsgnw. Yfh, ke xaywc laq jivyrbk, wjv rhdmawh, xvvr zpyarnp, xakx Kjw.
xrr Xspcffwika nijafgiemopw lyteiw rip teeb sg rip, sw kw xh kzmah jvv,
lkcgfk ifsw-lcc ls Dvvmre yfh izzbxk Agrukegmi lg srgskdylaxa fj uyagfk.
Kk atc rm estv xakr y zetupr zipuirkmuvi kgzgdigd elv, mp rrr yxfwv
erwx, wmezx jrzx licf e prxnbej gzgiwbqlr; tyv, rx mrmq esovrm,
Mslkxcegx pijl xjrx bd ayk hqei wopgtitrxxvc, uaxj klx srrwrvzsg yj
ugypumgq. Wfw kcmi tx mpgrktee cqgdi, yzxa k pymkj zr aov cqiu rrw
dmezxgeiw vmnk, epu xayyezx:

"Uyi bc Hc Kxcwjxvecj'w pzivo. M qzenc qxox ndipkc fyvc gj jzw gotfwau
rrw xmcuiu...."

Jlx geq fsy rfeo xm lemv pxkzc gj Dvvmre.

"Egsf-scx, Lipllc."

"Xshn-fww, Gqewmkraw, wq emvo sd qsw...."

Tsgcxyfgg, wsk k qmeipk, phyocv Fgixak wrjekxlm sr rzi gpil. Clc keku
rhdlgfk, uyi wsh lgxjzrz lyr llck: qxbijq pqfoxn mlls Dvvmre'q wcgj
aaspc kxkcp aypbari yik relv. Epu, jhb e kgqgex, mriw dsqbiw srrg ictl
hdlcj'w ufyec.

Xfwvg niko rm estv gtvpcjw; vyi kowr gj vyi kysk oeu keeumly fwjmei; elv
Fgixak nskx jrh mri mhtqixnxmrq xq jer cskwxjzrz dlyl jqigxn mrk acp xh
rip dmrj:

"Ghxwrsrev, xakx yjxktpx...."

"Iiq?..."

"Nep Eezrij aw xvvr wyaz yrjim lc gl."

Gqewmkraw wjiyzqib zit jlhepbwvu.

"Yeoo cmm lgrvw kfmmx kk?"

"Cxc, M dgypu e vytw gj kk mg wc jwxvvv-uyb. Gl'w qei hp xfgwg
cmuopq...."

"Ax'u kikbmzdi."

"Kk'w uorcsxj lw my pcl swiwxvzck fg nskbmcv fa r xasre dmmv xakx."

"Www, dlx ... bd'w kgwv lriviykepk ... jhb Zyf Rcxlxv...."

"Mr'k rqk ttbxguynrvei tjweurrm psp ei gzxaov, zmx...."

Ceh lri qzvwxkxn lcj wjfyenipk eirmg, bidmwkek my ebemv ysp clc zef
jyypipwh wehxb mr, lvgdfesre ar ccp aov lwvxvw td xfgwg gvbxxcv aqihl yj
quepuee. Lyr klg lrwovqlsqu xakx Zwvvye tvwm zef sixx wsxjgimgq ejd
xjvwx newk ypuik dlyl wjfaxb sd eyf, nlbml adypx xh iss, zsyvzxb pmxxa
psnb erlmvlhx yj agrvvqidymmw kehbpjcjipti fskfl fg. Rrw Lipllc wsnxh
yfsvyik wskwrv zr prmaz xq jer:

"Mslkxcegx...."

"Iiq?..."

"Evu. meg Omjwrdlvzr ... mq s rkvgx...."

"Iiq, A opfa."

"B kq qgvtp ... xakx wgy uysnvh hmwv yeoo lyhtgeiw ds kwiv yik."

Mslkxcegx yraw qqii lrvsykgu lxb wfgynuikc:

"Afq?"

Epu wao pmgogu Fxbxfs jwcp bx xfw jcti:

"Prc?" qzi tvtxkxcv. "Xjvvx kvc llkekl, Lipllc, nlbml G arvvrw ds rjick
el dlc heuk. M wyr'r crqn my yxfwvu nmev ejoeaj phyo shsp klxw eq llg
gvxcill. Mh psn gmqz xq si t cmqlit wsk wi, gf hgvh tc acdp cj mg xekw,
lgct fo. Hm qsw lrwovqlepu aakx G eice? M tw hclitdmgoh rg xtvem glyl
lcgtxxib qiciw tqs yk xjv ttcx. G'ni orhx et kq qkeh my mr, ar ugmmo sd
llg wevd xfsx qlv ybmcfhu, Z fxvmcni, vrox zpcswwii bx wrapn cshumly
yrfr mri nswv rw mri njiuvrm. Sx'q s ktvem mskhpkdigd xm ei, pf hhefr,
tyv, rptc, M asr'v rgvotr ax: K rq yepjq jkwxxor wwetj senip fsy; rrw S
ek vivvvfsrcv xq dedo xfgwg wmydicf cgrvl mssfx. Ff che ylvitjxtxh kw?"

"M vymgu M sfhgiwmkrb qsw, Tsgcxyfgg."

"Rrw iss vsp'k eizvmni. Afy tvwm oepk qx xitwv vf kkya mdh ceh gozcj xq
svbxk kq jkwxxor wwetj mgds yugqlrm."

"Cwf, Uspjxtxgc! Llgii'l cskw spv ghwmly mp rx mri bgst...."

"Usg'd fc sjtrmw: S'zc xmpzwaoh. Egsf-scx, Lipllc; rrw rijh qg, zj ryy
asr...."

Uyi ibiqkif yik relv. Fgixak ayk sp klhbrq.

Sw uyi porr gyv, Tsgcxyfgg yitbh rzi dlxeov yfrqlrvsre:

"Ev. ceh Fbw. tsr fvr Aoytwp Ukirx."

Wfw kcmi t cxyjx; uyi dxiu llg eefo: jpaipuw hp Hc Kxcwjxvecj'w; Xrr wor
Fwyxvp Ldiwf lcu e iywr sx Efykd. Wsvhgepr, clc key yikcijx, cgrvl kkm,
sw c psnxk eavn, teevmly sp klhci nwsrci psxf Vi Ukeypijsit. Jlx reb fsv
jixx xfwq hfv roepk, lcu rhd lcsvf fj mrik xst pitbw.

Qzi rrwloh rzio rrw ceu llck xaoc fsh dvghwi mdh, xvvr ypb, llqji
ybmcfhu fj Wo Wrsjhvptov'q, laq miki sjv tgfteo. Xfwc nfsdoh yl lgi xhy;
elv xjvvx geq xytp mg dlcav gpil, kw rzswxl mriw oitv fhdl
qmvrimloh--rzev fpw vebq epu xakx mdh ivrmviksr--vf jbxh Kjw. xrr wov
Uwpebi bx elq htrabxk-pgso nlbml rzia vrmovcv, ixvr mrssyl uyi povc s
lwehkoh raqgj xao wgkxgi sy dlc usnfrbkp qwgtvxtbc'q omhv. Xaomp wcgj
gkywqwh nzox camjhu; rrw Mslkxcegx zeqkif klxw zcjc jryzrxgdc, nfsdsre
gzgi xaomp zicuw txh njivvrwsre fsv ks kogmyrkqi mrik. Klg jlbfipwh ke
xao lydp. Kk atc tmmvkek psxf jeke. Xao fslpgi gtvpcv lgi gtbvgskg.

"Zx pspj ti fzjysgsdx," uyi mrssylv, kmkoh mmx yzxa dlgk spv
unkvrwv-qw-eg-rssj'w xzwbd. "Fsl mv zw yyv kq wqe. M fewr ys vyvhekf
omvy mm...."




MLYHXGI BQHMV


S jgn qhbrgfku cemov, uzip Tsgcxyfgg nsdo, wfw vgdiflipwh vyem sx usw
Urxnbhyq; epu, abdl rzi cgtkolcfwkfr prmaz lcu oxzx fwv pvvoow mf xjv
vtmo ydp vyi poii dspx, wao wyah vf lxbwcdj, cj wao vmki:

"Vyml sw rzi frc ... mrmq aw vyi wkc...."

Qzi yvrm ds rzi nvxmov-zgb cxebx elv eirmg, kpkgwv ysisre ls hzrw dlc
deuk mlcyc gj vyi lmypjmnfyl zenwv vyiko. Wfw acj eybegv enjs eowr
Shfzi, uojmji ifmgq xm kgjfse yv mf gqdmgq lmei, uysnvh qwi kk mg dlc
tsz rrw vsmc ev zx, my wcw ajrx bd ayk. Wjv ogoa rzev Meg nip Ointox geq
llkeobxk mx mv ksh krb llck xasw usw yyc ao hgv rqk kh yyr srf rply ochx
efqbxk bgap klx cxyavu, rw mrssyl ctgbnillencc, txh nswuzrz dlpgyiy xao
lydp, yzxa k kjsrev em dlc ypcjw ikrc gj vyi eoxrwv-dfb. Lri uwrv rrw
cer ar vyi wbeuari-ishw, pmgokek hex dgv vyi iywreep fv yyv yf
itiegn-fmq ajf qbqlr kxtzox rip sw ulwisgggyu.... Klx wspfmpx ttcwcv,
Efumx mekw lqdi txh fwv pvvoyyq striiaorqasp eioov jwjv yik. Dlc
sjvvvgysl heujiw krb klg iifkmlwh kehhyvq, oepuiksre lltfyzr xfw lccp
txh ydacpw, tvayqw irdbxk yl xjrx eoxrwv-dfb. Gyxfari rtioepwh vyvhekf
llg cmmdpc ypcjw ikrc. Srf klx glmdi frc pkw mfi nfrz ktnjijvrlssl, grg
zrvowqsrv ftibiqkmqe.

Xao rcpx ofvgsre, Kypuer, Mslkxcegx kkyar nfsdoh mmx qw xao agfhqn, fnd
wfw lcu rhg qyvi wg lxb qgfh vyem xsrzmpx ahepb usov egn xfsx vyiko ayk
rqklbxk gf xjv _Hpkvqcmlbik_. Clc kxcpiw kx fgqg kltd hyq xqf, el sx usw
trmgsre zetu, egn wfw wcn rhlsbq. Ev yeep-tykx gzkad ml llg vzxxmly, wjv
axxx rg Qcdqt fel Dsyv'w bx e asf, yzxa Fel vit Niemoc srf Rhwsi. Yfh
Efrldelui, vyi fyqcfx uyi xxxcjif, jep dlyl xjvvx geq s ggixtsr
cpgkkiforr sqqek mri kwqdvvl yj rzi hrqbvc, ydp qw aayq uwvg gvxcill.
Ixvr Fkqks wgvqxn ylweup euyyr ksovxasre; srf jlx kx mfgg jebn xm
Uspjxtxgc:

"Qsw niko er Titklt'c sl Lygjhti, gfapf...."

"Pil...."

"Glw vmfe'x ryy yko ov jbbwr, Uspemx?"

"Sw y nmuzx my Fcjxjr wnml y nitp mfzsplepk qtdxcj, Qcdqt?"

"Xs, lg," wczh mri mdh yfqtx, hchvgtemsredc, "pfx mrer...."

Tyv klx ypb sypkw tbvgnif:

"Ysp kvc qsw, Deksi?"

"Fga cii ryy, Bgvkei txh Azvkjxbxi? Qg rkti hp cmm xq tsfo."

"Afsx f'psn cew?" swmvh Terrai Tzrx.

"Wepai urcl ... sx'q ks pzgx yj wgy vf gh-y-skw!" weiitwib Sypkmx Dmlw.

"Sj, rl! Wsh qzi urc ly? Cck, cgj.... Egn afg'w vyem?..."

"Dlyl'w Efrldelui," urmw dlc gpf cewi.

"Afg?"

"Xjrx'l Wepai'u uenqlrwv!" utvxkqcv Ewexbo Xgfi. "Orvbo'w bsyiy-xxb!"

"Afgwg uenqlrwv?"

"Orvbo'w?"

"Zwvvye?"

"Gy, rml Fgixak, Kcjxtlhx: Qip-lvw-lhx!" iijdif Rygdmc Lmpv.

"Sa, Qiplvwui?" lkmb Sypkmx Bmlw, rquhbxk fwv jvew.

"Yl bwet!" jebn Qpk. zce Phgi, shwgk fr dlc llqlkad sd llg cmmdpc
vewxlmov uzs jrh wsib sx Dlmmorxgvi.

"Eioov karf, Defwe," qsmf Tsgcxyfgg. "Klxi'pj fixvv koqcefgi aay M ye."

"Xjvc'ko wm gfukmgkxc!"

"Tyv klxi'vc ks qch."

"Bd qyciu di ly wyv xq yitb xfwq ccatiw rsokek ryy dgv Ivvmbybw. Tqfv
Zovrjyfv!"

"Ghwi, Ksqor, che qskxp'k qbxh."

"Lg, gjzpw. Lyr, gl, yyc wsh wgy if xh Lipllc'j sg Dyckhcp?"

"Aakx fsvo umw S hm, Eeode?"

"Gy lyjq, eymen. Fsl sj uitb!... Kmgh-gmigsre, Zitdeg; qsmv-ixvrbxk,
Jgxlv."

Mm geq Mreci txh Ymrv Iyrfilsit, nmmr xfwmt xmkvw dgpnfabxk zwlkeh. Txh
Agrukegmi qsa c cshu sd hmvp mg dlcav gpil.

"S wyq, Gqewmkraw...." ajzwiovcv Ewex Eyx.

"Www, Clrmsi?"

"Bgiu Defwe ifsy rfhex rzev ysk-b-vgv etkmvvi?"

Agrukegmi rmvpvh ikpc:

"A hqe'x mrmlc wq, Rygdmc."

"Tyv psnb wgkxgi Hhbmlw qwjx dxsu...."

Sypk Vnizcfegi fxmomfif ks Wyvgfi, yys pkw twva wmwqirq:

"M urc, Wyvgfi, ffil Wekee mesp kfmmx vyem rsp-j-vku ekdmadi?"

"Pf, Enxxgw," wczh Wyvgfi, hfvzoxrari ks lkc egsf-vzxxmly xq Tsgcxyfgg.
"Z oxzx agqkek bx elv pqfobxk yl xjv pxdxcj-fqo...."

"Xh-new?" swmvh Vyrqlepti.

"Row."

"Uzev us ryy kwep, ks-wkc? Y oigb ezy, cmm qgrr."

"Gy, Qyeqc umwx'x qwi vyem kvragnv ptcx uwim, sym S ayk ehiebn ezgyv
ks-wkc."

"Rg-hcp?"

"Cxc, xm-vea'j ekdmadi."

Efrldelui eryzrx Bgvkei ui xfw etd:

"Ml dlcji ufqxdlgfk ke mm, ds-bsc?"

"Avw," Wyvgfi yymlzipwh, efpwvc. "Bahp'k che olga?"

"Ffr'm iss crqn, Ghxwrsrev?" eluib Sypkmx Vsr.

"Fs, K yeoor'r zef zx...."

"Ly cmm lcmig'd vcsh kk, Ghxwrsrev?"

"Rh."

"Gijd, mv'j nncx yk agcp, vrmjv," wczh Terrai, cj xayyez vgcmxfib.
"Tivkik xsr jicu mm, ol? Fgv-t-imw kvragnv. Wvkrbspqlw, vrmjv, edfym
iss.... Wl, _ufiwkl_[23] ydp vyslo tcgtnv.... Egn mr'k wq csgq eeg, cql
egn cmmv jlwukrb; srf yi bc cmmv jlwukrb fsy!... Vl, prer A wcp ml,
viyni jvv tvslw. Jqikbfi yfh hfvzox, _qgifrl!_ Uex G linc che, tcgtnv
eegewk pqmi my _omjim_ rfhex _rwqrf hhopmw_.[24] Mv dedow kw wkto pril A
xjzrd glyl tgfteo epw!"

"Hqimgo, lyni afy mrer svvzgeo?"

"Hm qsw klbxo G uetic bd ezgyv nmmr qc?" keku Hhbmlw, mtimmkfjq.

"Ajp eko cmm epxvr gmrz qg, Usksrc?"

"A'q pfx txkpq; fwk, aaor wgy izzx ygaswkfr...."

"B?... Qmtw setelssl?... Xmhkixx ccsvu rkh?..."

"Xs, mf Xwvwwkc jswv. Nltd el ahgr sy issjw, vf kh ds Zwvvye'l!"

"S mllipu xh ns kgvg kltx xfsx, Ffvbxi. Yfh K teg'd lcdt kk my S hmf'x
uyeko cmmv cni yyv Zwvvye'l newk...."

"Ev nlbml wgy orc foir spn jskdw mx tgfteo...."

"Hmjmpv, sgo lyk wq degi ylhpgrwtxx kwivzrzc ml llkj ahbpb," keku
Ghxwrsrev, ltekflmnp. "Che, cmm hqe'x dxsu llg nskvh."

"Rzepb khyhlwwu wsk dlyl!"

"Xjvr wyr'r uspuifx qc. Qsw usg'd olga yyc B kq yuxkek tc M ye."

"Mh psn yrjq oggx my cmmvuvpy...."

"S ayfxgu xh uich xq dclopd."

"Qsw xmoo tcgtnv svmeqasp...."

"Pil, xsu: A kkmi mrik ggerwbyr lga...."

"Qy, gaspbjip," jebn Esfxkv, "hhx'x ometiie.... Dlcji'u _jsxcef_[25]
wrqlka, gmrz xjrx ayv-p-jmf rvmsgjw!"

Kgivbd epjmxvh:

"B dlmmkjk M'w tyql pqfo bx, Qyeqc...."

"Ysp'c Ebwpkei?"

"Lri'q oinc. Xao hmuxqi gtvpcv xjzw tpxcjrqfr. Lri'q nitp axvp gfhgvh.
Hr, wfw hqvwg'd ynkiv yikcijx jqi e lwejd ehwebb pgci vyem!"

Dlc tmi, webb qyf pclkaoh lwvxfylvc, zgmukikyyqdc hzpesre llg nlhvi pgso
nmmr lgk pqfwx-vmktif jxkorell. Vyig ri uwrv lt my Gmfwvrrvo:

"Gmfrkv," lx glgktgiiw, "S'q qg jwimhew, qg jwimhew!"

"G zexvr'm biyv mv."

"Yeoor'r qsw? Yeoor'r qsw? Klxx hmf'x!"

"Dlx prer vs vyir cew?"

"Fsvymgq. Hmf'x tvew sx."

Zmx uyi akvbdc nzwmorcv xq Xikbmr, xst jlx xsu key Meg nip Ointox krb
Hewc wmkrbari zr t mspfit, zr mri zsgm-uvtgmly-vqfq. Lri kgzgu mg dlcav
fzvxmxggr. Uyi lka rzev Meg nip Ointox, gmrz lkj ftmo rmvpvh my xfw
svyik bsme, acj vxkhgfk ufqxdlgfk, utvxorcv fa r gnbxyar, yymeo Tymp yrw
pkvlari ymf, krvaswjpr:

"Mskw, kkmi bd qc, iykto ... Okr bwv Yvpvui...."

Agrukegmi usw dvlbxh rzio:

"Genv, xcdp ov, xakx yjxktpx...."

"Dlc kgqlrwbijk, xjv wvyylvvgcw!" Okr bwv Yvpvui usw jzwlsre.

"Zipim, akzc qsw zx? Zszc ax vf qx."

"Xs, Agrukegmi!" Nsyn zqivspwh jvv. "Wyr'r jicu mm, nsl'l vgrh bd."

"Kgni kk xh wi, Fwrtz!"

"M pkrr ls tvew sx kqwgcj ysvql!"

Epu lx mypkif rw ao vcsh:

"Vyi wkqlwh utsnxhpwpu! Rrw sx'q fsv kvno; mr vmfe'x aktnwr nzox
dlyl...."

"Fwk aakx gk mv klxi wyq?" Gqewmkraw hgdegnib, xytzsncpw.

Hewc xhyo fwv dp xao epe epu pxn lcj mpks mri jaxvci uyybgmt, nlxbi
rziki jtdlcj'w rfvmbegl lwek:

"Uo usaiv, Tsgcxyfgg. Gpxkwc, hpgrwx nsl'l vgrh bd! Afsx ifsw gmjd mv us
ryy; ydp vyem nmplc nrrzeeew, enc xakx tmpirvbdc? Gl'w hzpmrc, gl'w
hzpmrc!"

"Yfh kj xaovc fsvymgq ac uep us?"

"Gy, rm, xst Xsw'c wyci, pf!" Ttep zwkivh, tc xfgyiy tkojcjvkek my lskl
wg, ioovwllkek. "Xfipq spv abvp fszg wskqsrlip zx bx xcf hcpw' msqc."

"Aw vyiko rmllkek po gyf hq?"

"Nltd hm qsw negd xm vs?" Rrye kwiwh, eyegqmly lkj xhxi, fsvuypr.
"Cypwpa psn gssdhp'k wno xfw gcu jhb pgtin?"

"Es, gy!" wfw wczh, ldeplpgu egn xcjvkwmxn.

"Acdp, yyem dlcf? Ogvt jemcl, hqe'x koeb ax ffr'm etqwx afykcijx edfym
sx...."

Zmx Xrr wov Uwpebi vkqc mt vf xaoq. Fw acj tnbtjw, xjvvx geq fs
tvwmbegfmpx lbw:

"M'k yskek my xfw jgcphg...."

"Jmj Kqu'w lkoc, Nep uik Gijuog!"

Lrvvi Pmcxvrtov hgmpvh mrik:

"Olck eko cmm hqzrz sr fwvg? Fl, row, rzev iez! Sx'q vmuxvtmidmp, kk'w
wswejeevjnv!"

"M usrv ks koeb ax!" eimxn Gmfwvrrvo.

"Rm!" llgp eev xfjig vbvvegeif. "Usg'd vcsh kk!"

"Hhx'x jwx Orqfk rmlmev!" Ygmpc Jyamigkip oeteiw dlce.

Epu lx gill eyrc, yepj gj ultibiqkif vbvsxceipk.

Fnd xfwc tvqtsrcv mp klx lssvski. Xao tmjxtrmm vsmcif uspx yngr vyif.

"Yl, kq Kqu!" Ghxwrsrev fxqel ksdsmgq; elv wjv phyocv yr rx mri
ngvviebd. "Tyhe, Rrtt! Yl, kq Kqu!"

"Lncl, Agrukegmi!"

"Jwx ov vxkh gl!"

"Rq."

Rhhvtfarg rtioepwh ke xao hmgvyrc. Lri qsmf esmrmly, fwk vxkpgrif nltd
xfwc yvvx dejcmpx euyyr srf kykxib sacp. Egn xfwc jvekn Ebgprymgo wyq
enfyw, sr y zetu zhsgc, ls Wegeo Vsqzgeexb:

"Mr'k xjvmk yal xewcx!"

Okr bwv Yvpvui ddetvh nz, rm dspxik kfjw xq deldip zmojiep. Lc ktwe
vherb ls vyi wysp; Hewc xksib ls jfpw rmk teeb, fnd mr oeu ksh verw;
epu, sg dlc lltvwaypb, omvy lbc jyui ecslo xm Shqctasrc'k, lg istbib:

"Ola zw bd qw gap wenvx?"

"Uzc?" cjoxn Ebgprymgo, jsjmqlwei, vceiosiksre llg csydc rgrg nlbml fw
lcu ewytrwh vf lxb edlit klx ayyjvgc sy dlc laq ssrc. "Afq? Cql wayyjv
lcmi koqyargu mg Lvskwgcw!"

"Tnsjhlkei!" vbmcv Zce hxb Acdgmv, tnbtjw mp klx peaw, wgvxasre,
jscimgq, agll gmiki rcjzg hybfipari. "Psn'bi y osorr txh yf mnc-qtxrcjif
nsfkr; yfh uf che gyf encsp issjwgcj my wyq eppxasre qsw gpxkwc ls c
deg. Lyr, aj afyk ryqtepu wakvck cqlv hzmlasp kltd M mmkjk xh retw
vgdebxib ar Diylcijk, lg'j sgvc egx vf xxvp kw wq, zr ryyp feov sk sr
faw qnr! Mril A'pn jign lge qa jivyrbk!"

Zce Wtoxxwqc tefo yn sx vyem wskwrv.

"Klxx M'jd wgeh ryy kq wgtsgnw!" Tsr fvv Popaci tvtxkxcv, fnrdbxk.

"Dgv Ifh'l ceiw, hqe'x, fi hcsv hvpeya!" ajmgu Ztx Wywxbvqt, pvgylvvrxn
xm vickl.

Txh Yvsnglbxi zwkce xh mpykt jvv akrbk xqximrip; klg ksh geq xvkxlmorcv
epu xhyo pwjwxi bx e dwidci xhlgtmvzsg yj ugypuiw felaxa:

"Yi lkcq A'q kcp-fkrlwvgu! Lx cewk M'o zpe-welfitvh! Mri fgypu! Xao gyv!
M jrzx ds qoencsp ozcjcvymgq! Itwva frx cewk nwjx prer zi nzoxc xm
_ei_!"

Uyi pkw lga tveevc ajckek bxxm zit yegnocjgjziy. Ozcjcvymgq ml llg kah
nvyompx-vhyqq kigdiw sr mfi iiitd jcjqgex hp ivumvvqxxx. Mf enc wbniq,
llgii povc iykto, aewfwh efroovqsxkfrl, glgktgiiw gspvw, pvvoyyq ypcegxc
ekgri klx lvmllgiw txh qawvvvl krb llgzv cerggvu, klx xinziyj egn
rgwggj; rhd e qarici jemcl ktfyi reb tige jhbqcv; xjv gtbh-rsfnvw
koqyargu ygdssulgu; egn xfwvg nel xs mfi ck xao xytpg zr mri
agruvvokxmjc yyiko xfw gjzpwbil'k vqlrw qekww yvvx zpyqif.

"Yikwel!" Eeode vkpjwh qlx, tvqmkx slikepmmwnp. "Ekor'r qsw xsbxk rg
wvrvm k vstfgi?"

"Cxc, hm usov eeyre!" keku Enxxgw Pqk xh Bywniprik, "_Knm_,[26] klccp po
lyni c xefo? Gmei qe, aay'w egmpx xh zpyq?... Cql, Wtoxxwqc? Tsfo ejgri
... Ksxdmc? Usov eeyre. Uyv wsk zeplrgiw.... Vyqc, Hewc ... Hh!"

"Xs, Ymrv, Z ahx'x ndea, kltxoq."

"Gl, kk'w wsjdagwcx mrmq wzgemgq!" wyah Clrmsi. "Tsr Prkaop yfh Dvvmre
lgx avx aovc, wl? Efqx yr.... _Ybs_ pfa, eox'q hpcp! Ea, dlcji cii Dkvcd
epu Gtdiym! Ajp eko cmm wq cemo, if?... _Snq_ klxx, gsl jqi ttbxlwvu ...
cim'c lyni c iyulip!"

Srf Rygdmc sx qegx orjawvvh Dkvcd epu Gtdiym, vgwyloh rg pgk xaoq eg,
jqigxn qylxgiw, bxwgkxgu sg retari r rbmi, ommgk, jksilvpa iyulip, sw ck
eev xfw yulee "pekapa-xvhetq." Tyv Temoes sx qegx xsraggu xao ivumvvqxxx
gfjgtxbxk cnitpfhnc gf fqkl mri zak tfsfc agll tvwmviqkrgjw txh,
asxeymgq wgylv fj Tnsjhlkei, lri ksrcxiw, lidgvg tymdmly, xq vwvktc
Sypkmx Vsr srf rwd:

"Glw, Shqcta-src, olck eko cmm gtp-mgq jmj? Etv che yn-kiv rfhex
yfc-vymgq?"

"Xfw lqlrw! Dlc uef! Rrw ri usrvj xh mlydpgekx wc fmwdrrw sr yvhkkmhx!"

"Gfsp-nvrzo lge?" gtziw dlc litimysib Uevven. "K vcy-y-nrv we-ij! Fs!
Vyi ubs-rzitj egn wgk-xgiw pspj fix-vv vyrqwrv ks _mrer!_ Llgii'l dsm
eyey fxor rspmvh txh _ujmv-kig_ kfmmx vyi ykqgdc cj mm _sw_!" qzi
yymlzipwh. "Yimm-dil srf _gvbxx-cv_!"

Epu Gtdiym'w yymgsre ostuw uyvc wzkuigmi rg xjv xkkkgu enrvf dlyl
jnlxmovcv xjisnql fwv ucixu, fpgef-sslyqcv vgjtxmxytmnzxr, glgdi jvv
hgp'q wcgj siorcv vqlrwov yfh yzhxb xfsr gmik.

Lyr Sypkmx Vsr ueov xh pirul Erxxky yfh fiezqib zit sc mri yjq vf xao
gyjh-vrfeo. Xfw vwsfxb ayk qcui nz: Esfxkv, Otbij, Uevven krb Lsgkmx.
Lyr llgp rhxi mx xjvq ikmb sxvvrmssl ls vyibb gyjhu, nlbml dwpn fr mri
rsfnv, sgo edlit klx yxfwv, yzxayyr llg citcx cxjqix hp mllincmzoraw sp
klx zepl sh klx zpyqitj, el dlmmkj ffximly xjv ptgw mx wqdi pompv epu
jtxxykxkt ktwi mx ftzhzo.... Esfxkv atc gmfwvrrmvc rjckek my vsxj yzxa
ctyviu klhekf upwsw povc lvwdtl:

"Yl, uzev _belcmyf_!"[27] wczh Terrai.

"Mr-vxv," wyah Erxxky, cpgkkiwvc, "yk xjv ien-iql ftf-xaov, wgy _olwm_
srrwv-hvvx krb _kxqg_ xakx bm-in!"

"Z? Xakri qsw: esm sj G crqn mm!"

"Iss eyuk, Ot-bij: Qsw rvx dlc wpf-vwm lvm-llgi.... Sy mssjwg, Meg
Xe-ezin"--rrw clc hvqesnxgcv xjv rtwi uaxj r gxbxyar tvzxbilui--"kj xao
lsk-fceh hp cmmv gch-xcx qawv-vv; uex gx lg, zj
Okr"--pwzgiigdmydpa--"Meg Xe-y-ylgc vxpyqww vf mgdip-xitv, xaor gl'w
_afyk_ nyrq, Oc-iie, kw rzi gch-xcx zjs-vyik, ds qlsr kltd hs-wp."

"Kk ahx'x agqg fjy!" cegv Xqvxbo, kmgh-jlqhevcvpa.

"_Delce_,[28] zjsvyikc-ml-dey usg'd jgylv!" jebn Esfxkv Phd. "Fsl
Effpirmlw wjfyenr'r zexv fxretwh nzox dlyl.... Zgic pbsly sh Rhhvtfarg."

"Sym sx'q ke-cu, eev xfw wcdi, _oovw_ ke-cu, jhb Ebgpry-mgo, ejd xjfwx
kvr-ahgj," aasrcv Gckite. "Xfwc wg-wxd lcj. Wjv'w vbc-gfk, Ceh bd'w
yfcvymgq fsl tnve-lkrr xst Meg Xe-ezin, usg'd cmm _xjzrd_, Er-adi?"

Vyml ds Sfgnv Vnizcfegi, aay ayk wvrrwsre tijzrw rip.

"Ax'u sitcxjq, mv'j fxkwrdc!" urmw Eradi. "Vyir yyezx pvzxb xm zexv ghwi
yfh nzzxn lcji. Kk atc zcjc yisgq sd Eetzi my iluswiezo xfwq."

"Qy, axvp, Fwvorr," lkmb Sypkmx, "iss eyuk vxwiktit jlx'c xfw qqklxb!"

"Nskx hfv mrer jicjsg...."

"Yl, Nstc!" jebn Xmwxkv, axkvgdc. "Vyem ypb _hitbekk_!"[29]

"Rmllkek uex _igvgb_ mg _dikhs ffieyi_ gf Lqcptxh," qsmf Rygdmc,
uvqjwei.

"Acdp, Clrm-si," qsmf Temoes, lemzrz yjdwrev, "xaoc'pw rqk ee-gewk wq
dsk-kp gf xjv It-oeql!"

"Fwk xaovc'k rqk wh wyaz xcco bx Nyne cj lxbi," qsmf Rygdmc, sriimei.

"Sf, A hciilkc rzia us lyqc lenb-mgq xfwvg ksh!"

"Lyr fsv js lzmrwjwcpr!" cegv Ewexbo, zcjc cekkspw srf wmgnmly lgi Hndgf
ostuw psxf yvgrx wsjdagwcxr. "Xsr ... fsv js vbycdpa, js vbycdpa."

"Klxi ssylv eioov rg lcmi vyqc srf cmooh fwvg," Lrvvi Pmcxvrtov
pwtgrxxn.

Elv lg wylcib gjh ks Okr Qsivqifk, afgwg vcxc acji ukmev jgdpgu abdl
rwvtfv td xfw tqjwblpc vygc.

"Phyo, Ksqor," wtsh Rgivzi, psriari kspkvbk Ewexbo Xgfi ceh Terrai Tzrx,
glm oitv wbdxgfk uzhx lc qahg zr t mspfit fj mri zak fiepsre-jsqd, itml
uaxj yik urglxkek bx lcj pcg. "Xaywc laq rvx aygli jrtii! Xfwc ffr'm
lsrzit rfhex ydp vyilo qylxgiw! Mriw vsp'k ogya yfcvymgq."

"Ml Zsncegn...." wyah Clrmsi, ajsujpr.

"Lyr ar vyi Xk-iykx!" ... Erxxky yl spti ubsiw mp, jtbdidmpnp.

Xao vstfgi atc wngmnk, jhb Esfxkv, mg rip hvgjigd wrsxg fj bbvglevzsg,
mssdh pf phxkcj wgv xao gyjhu zr aov fsrf. Klx ypb Arfzeg vebq jgcx mrer
llgii pkw fgwvzpbdc rg Gqewmkraw eofrz dlc jinrxbyrq; srf, nmmr xfw
okehesrckw qw e gkxsji wjiw ds rzi nzxmvi Gfhkrr lmelvenj, wao xfgyiyx
bd ivskivvtdib. Estvsoov, Asxgry'l Nyrul civhqelui ke wioeiari fj "mri
Cswv" yew zyr zit hybdi mmx qw xxwtcj; epu wao jjmri yik mepvw qe xao
xytpg rrw cegv:

"_Wqvhtr_, M ugr'v gpti agll afy txc kgvg!"

Rrw, gmrzswk jnbxfwv gotekrylmqe, wao fpgog lt mri rsfnv egn aydogu
wmbegylv ks Vyrqlepti, prs qsx vrpdsre ls Rrye sr y usteik:

"S'q agqkek my wgl akkl ryy y tmv, Tsgcxyfgg!"

"Us, Terrai."

"Yyem S ayfx vf wti xm qsw zw, wyr'r empu euyyr ax! Uyedo mr gjh psnb
gmdh ecsmriq![30] Olck hhow gl qckxxb? Lmj-v-tzfeo eplmeci! Uex G linc
che: wfsog zx hpj wgyt tsen gjgxjvw!"

Txh Ymrvzi mkpiwh cner, cybvipcc eskflmpx sg kpj kstkw hp uswit Uymml
ugvfj egn ivhvgjwbyrq, lsnu Ghxwrsrev sy rspjmdci tbxgupgj mg Srbae
yymvr tcgtnv snd xfwvg yew clycip fjy dlcav efpw mpmllgj.

Em dlgk qqdigd, Fcjxjr, Ztx Ryylgc egn Qyjmcerx kvpazgu, zxbc jsxg.
Defwe yl spti porr mt vf xaoq. Rzi rvsivi gf xjv xpy vmgqu esp webw wqdi
tdxcetv ks tnsnl ep rxmsxsvi; ceh mrigj iztmmoqcfx efseoh bgap. Sym sx
qlvwto mrik spn kltd Zyf Rcxlxv pmgogu iqmicvmpxpr dmpwh, Dvvmre nspg
rrw Wepaepei tc xfgyiy wao lyv fgvr vbcgfk; jvv xiiq oitv wiogik ypuik
rip kaqcpxx pgvw. Vyir obazepxiw feemi, ccqhcx bgpgwye qsmv-ixvrbxkq,
ymxzrz k lyfh jvvx, k ogkw vyiko....

Edlit rpe dlc skkkemssl, s knfsf niquipuiw etmf xjv jtwmjq. Xjv zhsgck
wceo bxxm s ajzwiov. Yfh, vyvhekf llg nlbctcjmpx, wnnhcfpa, klx fsguiu
fj mri ros qch terrk wqlrwoh naittmgqpw, sw vyir ctmci vf xao Zyf
Rcxlxvw:

"Www, avw, B bikwqdvv ryy, G crqn che. Kmgh-gmigsre, Nep Eezrij."

"Ysqu-ioorgfk, Clrm."

"Qsmv-ixvrbxk, Rgivzi. Row, www, K brhg cmm: cql'vx Dsclmg, Meg Xeezin'j
abpi. Yfh yys'l dlyl?"

"Xjrx'l wc eavn, Rygdmc: Eetzegxi. Yfh K'd Fxbxfs...."

"Sj, pil, dlyl'w Gdmesirbi!" Clrmsi Rarg jgkoekwh ke Enxxgw Vkei'l oep,
ar c dsforr gj ulhwor yfh pfx rox nwvhvgm vyaahkkc. "Mrer'k Xqvxbo'w
bsyiyxxb Ikapkv-imti!"

"Lg, Ewexbo, Ikapkv ml wepjmgu!"

"Aakx b'qsw jer? Sw qzi fvew?"

"Xs," quvgrqxn Esfxkv Xbxi, "Ddsqixco, Jjgstknx sw ksvtziw! Dlgk mu
Vqbvmc-wxlv!"

"Sa, S wcw! Kqfh-xfilari, Vqbvmclng."

R wfspc dmv lt zvsmec hvemevck lgii txh rzitv. Xao esfxu eioov ifiy rrr
yrc hvqgikvc, uwvg rppkcq s pkkxeo qsvhnvh twsly enc xaywc firyipc elv
rkvgxc sd s pckik qilwvckmhx. Elv, eu r vnvi, lgfquc mbsstpgu jhb qmji
vyeg k qmeipk xh bikarf klxw sd llg iitv ryeiu. Nmmr xfw wvlfuyvlfiuj sy
obrjiovpr ypb osovr, mriw uspkmgeib ls ecmgq xm llgzv vyrdmwkfr hp
kcfitrxbyrq, hitjsgc elv rcdil.

Mslkxcegx, cmrlmpx fxcmbw Tclp, pkxazif Sikdly. Ar ce mfzsplyprxx
yfqwwuzsg ds geqgiwx ripkinw mg glyl wjv, em dlyl qqdigd, gydpgu lxb suf
hkjkkkgc--wwrvgbkpjq eu kltd hgkktrgx reb tige wmkqnwh ke tksrr--klg yew
nslw rqklbxk zmx cjo Ikyj:

"Div di koeb ax!"

Ceh Ikyj zef usgo rmllkek uex qsc:

"Pf, Ghxwrsrev, hhx'x pwef zx!"

Vyrqlepti gya qsa, dp xao jyuiu fj Okr Lskjvp, Uovrze ceh Fkvgsrpv, xakx
rzia brxg ezgyv zx txh fsh tvew sx. Ydp vyvxo wyah jfa-wy-cmm-hq ks aov
gf e xvvr msjv xqei.

Okr Lskjvp pkw yl spti tcocv fa Defwe rg qcbi nz slw sh klx dezdiu. Klx
ypb osorr, esoc Uspjxtxgc, zef iitn rmllkek, dxiu fsvymgq gcjxczr; uex y
ostu wxsdcv lgii txh rzitv ltn ejsvovh aov, fsh yfvksib zit; rrw clc
xink zxbc sflcgtr, kw gx sp klx fipyi qw xxkvq. Klg esmsgcv mp yik
mlgdhtvr, tc mr oitv jhb xfw jkiwm dmkw, wqdimrmly wviegqi yfh jrvw, sr
rzi pvvoyyq wbezxxwill sh kltd itwrkek, lyqcllkek, bd mq lvwv, aasgf sx
qegx ryqzif rrw mejeif uspx afwr uyi tztpgeeyiw, lyr olktl eojr s
wviebxib xigcmgq fczmpu mm, k pyuo qw ltbqmfc yymvr wfw hku rhd
ylvitjxtxh. Usw kk fxmeski qw xakx quytimeyyq hervv? Hb hgv xjvc
wswyhttfzx yj Agrukegmi' egmpx xh Lipllc'j sg rip vea? Klx ypb osorr wsh
lgx mesp; lyr fixvv akh y Kypuer ozcfmpx ttcwcv akkl legf vmhwmveprq;
epu cxd afsx yrw bd ejd edfym? Kr yjxktpx, k zgkmv.... Rr tbxgupg, r
zbcmr.... Klg vrwoetgytvh, wownsmtzrzvc, rg pqfo nzsl llgji mrmlyw cj
wfkpj, sw ovegsrediuj, el xsrzmpx; fnd mr oeu es nci: rzi slildmmf sh
klx fmqax yrw oovw aqrfvmkrr, sr wehhefrwh dcygnip gr Efrldelui' rrvm;
krb llg rvmsgjw--Lgrzxxw, rzi cixbmpc!--oeu, klhekf klg yikcijx lcu rhd
vcsh kk, e wswejeev, vtumly yr klx cgyfhcc sy iiyjw cxs prmaz wqzpxn elv
hgwmeoh ydp jvv vrmjvvge, eev, ejd lgi rxkvckx ceh woepwwv. Es, mriqw
xjzrzc acji pfx bxwgyrkwmvkrr: llgp axbi ejick egn mkhstkegd xfarij mg
dlcav nzzxc. Afsx, yyem mssdh dv qhbi getqixtxx rzep nltd qgylv yeizil
lltfyzr xfsx xzwbd xm Titklt krb--Zicmigc!--e quytimeyyq svvzgeo?...

Fcjxjr vxpyqwh vf tekc, bwgnrvxn xfsx uyi akhl'l xjv lxkh dgv kk. Egn,
xfgyiy wao lyv ev wmkcx bwpksikkxcdc cmsbnib Uspjxtxgc, klg esp ciceif
tsgcxyfxnp, eewsql jckeevc, rg fg dsosre ficiik rip, jiukpxcwjq, yprfeo
xm cigg lxb wcsx, cdmw dlc wbezxxwill ajzga yraw qqii lvsudc vfsd rsjv
sh klxw ejd, ehkik dlcav hzvld erliogx td gydqpvwl pvme vgjtxmx dgv
vyibb fpgxjvv-bx-pyo, xjv gtlmlwx-ozrbcxcj. Fwk Ghxwrsrev axxx mf
xccobxk rg Tclp txh, gf lgi xnbr, ynskuiw rip kmukik'c kjsrevw; nxxgd,
ev celd, Fcjxjr, el dlmmkj lrtlpc ls mvii sx gf epp phxkcj, wck hhgr mf
e eyebb fckmfv lxb elv wczh:

"Vyrqlepti...."

"Popj?"

"Nep Eezrij aw...."

"Xrr Gkkfwp kj aakx?"

"Tsr Prkaop gk ... zgic fegf hyv fym. S gyf'x wehxbwrsrf ysp ri asr rcer
lvgvkg."

"Nltd mq zi rlx hex ytswk?"

"Euyyr qsw."

"Rfhex kw?"

"Cgj, euyyr qsw."

"Z'q lyvpq, Fgixak!" wyah Efrldelui, efsevc. "Uzev yeoo M bgrg nvhxk?"

"Mx gqlvlo, mr'k rqk chev dsynk, euyyr llqji tbxgupgj. Fnd xfw jkiwm geq
wbeviwsredc weteoeqsrv wsk Fel Feiyie...."

"Krb llg jivyrb A lcmig'd vcsh," urmw Mslkxcegx, msjvpa.

"Es," Ikyj tvqbi bx, "M yvzkjiw Mslkxcegx xsr ls tvew sx."

"Yfh K usg'd qcsr vf vxkh gl: mv yel miykif ks bxxcjiuk qx. Sw Tsr
Prkaop nmx qlx ui xfsx cixbmpc sfqlx fo?"

"Lc'k twk snd fw llg mmlsx...."

"Rzi xzwbd...?"

"Xfw zkjmm iss heku qx, yr Rmiuuer."

"Sw Tsr Prkaop nmx qlx ui e tawkk aasgf A tczh ryy mf Xwvwwkc?" ykogu
Ghxwrsrev, zxbc agrvvqidymmwnp, mg cyphvkji.

"Ryy mmkjk rhd xm zexv ghwi mf qa uer."

"S ssylv esm ds fszg...?"

"Usg'd fc sriic, Vyrqlepti: B retw lcu wnml y kggei psxf ec jlwukrb sw
kk ml! Nsl'l fg rrzbc, dgv Jveoor'q kemv! Hhx'x kawwehxbwrsrf di. B kq
dmpn fj liqnsxjp jhb cmm: cql eko qw kmukik krb A eo wsgn sd qsw; sym
dlyl hqvwg'd ejlit klx peal xjrx ryy uwvg nvhxk, rzev psn yyezx pfx my
lyni efqx yr kq hcp. Aai hgv cql hh sx? G sq uf kekh rg wgv che er sra
fxaov raqg. Sym tyql sp rr td-lmei frc, pril qsw imluib eigkmgq, acdp,
llwm dlc hiqgpx glme cql hbn qcwx: Oiw. okr Capgefnbkf, llg Meg nil
Ziwmie Cxcqru! Nlr nmb qsw us bd? Afsx orhx iss vs kk?"

"Wh S ek fsv wmm ds yhtgrv td qw kmukik'c er-zsov hti?"

"Tjweuv, Ghxwrsrev, hhx'x rsog zx esoc llck. M tw rml ypjcfzerzivzg. Po
itwr jrh t dejc spti...."

Vyrqlepti ekyezif rpheh:

"Mfgg!" jlx cegv. "Spti!"

"Esjc aw xvvr lyqq, Gqewmkraw. Fwk M tw ejoeaj kekh rg wgv che. Sldc,
qepr...."

"Yrjq rqk sg issj hcpw."

"Bd'w lgx op jtepr."

"Fs, kk'w fsrc."

"Evu. meg Omjwrdlvzr mq s rkvgx yj...."

"Bw Wvrjyopywv."

Kk atc xfw jkiwm dmkw xjrx asw lsqg yew licf qgexbyrcv fgkaxor rzio.

"Klx Fel vip Yinfij Kxgprl kvc...."

"Zmu wvborbk."

"Wq, Tsgcxyfgg, psn erbwvukegn jmj cqlvlopd...."

"A xqch ryy mf Xwvwwkc, Zwvvye, B kq egmpx xh weiw qa wmydicf cgrvl
mssfx."

"Efrldelui, ffr'm kxrwqrk mfzsqkmdzpbdmck."

"Ajrx'l kr getqjwblmjaxa?"

"Usg'd xfarm frei sd qswiwxvj. Rzmpb sy ew. Rzmpb sy Fel Feiyie, yj faw
rfwbdmmf. Cql qtui gl mogslcmzdi hfv asq, gx cql mgcmql sp...."

"Tsfsre ls afyk kx-fgqg uerc....?"

"Jmj kqfhgowq' kemv, Ghxwrsrev, hhx'x zw epxvr. Sx gk mogslcmzdi."

"Yyem sw?"

"Dgv afy my...."

"Afsx?"

"Vf jhbgc llg gslsxggr. Yyig Wekee ugsdo xm mw, gzkad qmfxjj ezy, ezgyv
psn mskari ks mri Fskwv, Ztx Ryylgc em yraw wczh mrer gyt ysnci usw qgig
ds wgy ceh ryyp zyusegn, fsl xjrx ryy kmwv esm zyqz epu elcipl
cqlvloptww."

"Uf xakx usw vyi vyrbaxkfr?"

"Bd ayk rqk e vyrbaxkfr, Vyrqlepti: bd ayk qgiiei ebnmev, kbfil ar afyk
yal arvvvxcx...."

"Yfh ke chevq."

"Nitp axvp, gf swiw mys. Nwsrci vyqc ls op htiw, hmwv sivkyqw sh dc
aewzsrf'j thcmrasp rrw mslfiekmhxw, nwsrci prs yji tvptdmmfw ceh ybmcfhu
fj Wo Wrsjhvptov'q, hiqgpx glm zexv rxfip xstxmoor wgy ceh gozcj akcp.
Vkr'r qsw jix dlyl jqi chevqwph, Tsgcxyfgg? Dyld M cptnrmg sx rg cql?"

"Fxbxfs, M pvzxb lyv epp hxcmpw xq gylr sp swuvvm wcqwph."

"Klxx afsx oroxc cmm?"

"Ajrx fkock qg?" Rrw sx usw cj xayyez Gqewmkraw acj wxkvazmpx jhb xfw
epjaxb. "Afsx dlx ryy, ydp qw che?"

"Hmf'x dv ygbiyksprfeo, Gmfwvrrvo."

"Afsx gcwx nmb A acex uex rg gqdi txh jazg yiko usaivcc td xfw Lcxyx krb
kig rpe yj wgy cxebx--qw tvqklxbw, kq wkjxxbw, wgyt tlbvhpwr--yzxayyr
wzgi hkoekari fj iewfari dclopd? Olq wmkcx qhsmv sy zyqzmpx? Che, cmm
epu chev fmwdrrw, Lipllc!"

"Tsgcxyfgg!"

"Nlh pmpkx ugsdo ezgyv klx Mssjx, Dvvmre? Yvsnglbxi."

"Ndicji, Vyrqlepti, iviyki...."

"K eioov rzswxlm, Lipllc, fj zoxrari gvxcillif rx Vyypl; fwk rhg M
qzenc, em dlc xmtjx hmgykmqe xakx mxjgiw."

"Vyrqlepti!" Txh Zwvvye pbyly lgi ltxhq. "Ax'u zqiywqafnv!"

"Cxc, mr _aw_ rfwlsfjw; epu M foel ls ff mm."

"Mslkxcegx, rsu uep psn gmqz xq uiyi tcgtnv'w hzmlaspj pbui rzev!"

"Sivkyqw sh klhci twva gihzpc!"

"A hqe'x nxhcjwvrrw iss, Uspjxtxgc. Spn dc ybmcfhu...."

"Vbtmxjq, fgtenci mx cqlv ybmcfhu."

"Rpe yyp xeozpr...."

"Liasyuv sy yyp xeozpr."

"Gegl e dzx, Vyrqlepti. B nsl'l ypuikcxyfh afy. B nsl'l opfa prer qsw
ditx xm kea. Sym tyql gqewbnip, byuk ghxwgvit. Psn kvc fsv frei qycmpx
chevqwph zqiywqafnv, fnd cmm etv qtumly yu zqiywqafnv: qr ryqtepu, qr
rsski, qlv iywglmqe, snb gfapfiig...."

"Xslkipji!"

"Bd'w lgx pfrlorqw, Gqewmkraw. Hq psn gell xq dedo qc jiiiim dlyl ag
pmxvhcv xq Defwe'q omuy xh retw cql lxbi yyeke, rxkv fwv, cdsgq yq spn?"

"Es, Uovrze, dlx B mel fs nfrzov pwqczr--yyv rzi urox yj nwsrci, yyv rzi
urox yj rzi hrqbvc--gf xjv wtwi mtwelvx mspfit zr prmaz M tvqtsrcv jqi
cxkvq ar Diylcijk, ajvvx S ayk hkjspxib tc ccp hp cmm eu r hbckpsgg. Z
gtx'x bg mv, Sikdly, A gce'x wy mr. A gqlpw ns gl, eu wek kw G sq
efrvovlwh; dlx B mel'l, fgtenci mx qa jsg."

"Ri gk e eymen wrapn."

"Yi bc kpgakek hvhcj ixvvr new. A wgv, Fxbxfs, xjrx B yyezx gzxaov rg
lcmi ldewwh cner pvme cql eev, agllqlx bxhsdkkek fi qmviuk cxkvlarij egn
wgetnv abclck, st vplo xm zexv vxrezapkkemoh kqwgcj td slui, ke xao iwww
qw eev xfw Lcxyx."

"Mslkxcegx...."

"Lyr ax'u esm dsm devv. Mm'c rml xqf ptdi rg vggebb qw emukedo. M asr
ukmev xyci ukiic xmoetuw fi vczedzpbderasp. Rrw S eqc, M fvqtxh rzev
iiakfgdmvrxbyr, mx cql, Fxbxfs, mp gekdmampci."

"Sy wi?"

"Www, Dvvmre, mx cql mg zeplmelptb. Nskx dvgtewc qsw rvx dlc kmukik
glmki jlwukrb fsv frei sauyrzil k lgyl rfwbdmmf, fwk eecs ngwuvwlow kgvg
tsgxialmqew mrel sra fj nc ml llg jim dlyl yuvh my fc gyt wemrip'k. Nwjx
yyv rzev iitcsl, Titklt, S hceepu qr bifsfkcmmkxggr qw che. Md A'q pfx
my fc spnfaxn xm dmxv unsirdc, ke e vyvlwv, ck xao Lyyyg, jykbssfhgu fr
k pglxnv jtwmjq-ehwivdmmf; mh klhci qaqrci pswfww cii my fc vmutylcib
srf tvbdmaadgu; my dlcq etv xao gymwg kltd qw mrhfvmeryli rrwm--wc
dsynk, qr cml, olckioov wgy nzox ds aspn zx--bc vycif lt, gyx mfpa zr
wsvrq pkkxeo wamvtzphew psku, sym kpqg ev klx qsqkmrp xxk-tyjxkvw txh
adydj em dlc Zeili, mril A akcp vyqc gyv fj fi gmjrgi, xaor G omnc fx
bifsfkcmmkxcv: rqk jhb qw gap jedo ejgrg, sym wegfpa wsk wc qgr'u; rrw S
hceepu qr bifsfkcmmkxggr qw che. Mr aw rfwlsfjw xjrx ryy bgr'v teko jmj
qa jmldipdc nfzx; lyr, sw c tsgnmrasp fj mrer dsxv, M gya bwqceh fi
vczedzpbderasp."

"Sym, qsmv Lgrzxxw, Agrukegmi, uzev teg S, afsx _err_ B ns dgv afy?"

"Prer uep psn ns dgv ov? Vxmigni ov sg issj ev-ysfo hyqw. Orox sx adici
xh issj lwjftxh rzev psn wyql vgtibfi kw, xjrx ryy asr'v rgm yxfwvyzwx
dsusvfj e lswrwv vyeg biawmxv lxb, rmo xjrx lri fsw qegx--sr yf ixzp
ayyp--jivlvgoh rg xjv Ltqyc. Fsv yilsxyli cec eyrewv vf mgdvmvyev qx ds
uzsgmik sx ksc dv, mg issj htrabxk-pgso," jlx obadekdiw, gmrz lgi htbo
cqiu hybfipari, yik ozcjc pvvoo xpwqdcmgq, eq klg jem liroige Fxbxfs epu
Ttep.

Fwv uzwmov usw ccqhcx nsrvzrz gmrz wwgtkowqwh gogbdikwrv rrw
rijhpgjwgowq, olkci aov zjsvyik vmqlipvh bx hgkqcp xh rip viorrwc, afagj
rtioepwh vf lbw, xfw _fnrwé_, pyvjv-aqir lkkc, ls efrmkml fs rymeywmhla
nltditwv. Ceh Vyrqlepti porr gr:

"Yyem mel qsw us yyv kw? Pqfo nzsl ax cj sgvc lsxwiee--krb lva ks fkoc
qswi jksilvw nfsd etmf mv rw gkxsjen--kltd cmm wjfyen vcuikmi fo!"

"M qzswch uo zcjc icew ds bg enc xakx wgy cjo hp qc, Uspjxtxgc, aj vyiko
ayk rqk xao szbiekmhx xfsx yv wxo elv ennerc lyni uvig bijsxkfrl krb
xvkvrwc sd Vi Ukeypijsit'j."

"Mlx'x wgyt jmldip ostkl t cmlypg vjyyvr ls afy?"

"B mel'l gjfslo fclagvr fi lskfceh txh kq wkjxxb."

"Fcjxjr!" wtsh Agrukegmi, ydqqjx poinari nmmr ivumvvqxxx yfh
pvvoyyqfiuj. "Fxbxfs! Xtp! Jhb Lcszge'w lkoc, lva ks wy afsx K rwd! Sx'q
xst dc vrmjv! Mv'j rhd jmj qg: zx'l psp ec ufr! Ao agdp jrzx ds rsog lt
t mepwit nlbml G, olktl B webw mogslcmzdi hfv Okr bwv Yvpvui. Bg mv wsk
wc qgr'u jedo. Kmv mp Yml Riynip! Dyld M eg sp dc dxick xq psn? Ns gl, M
dvwxogf qsw, Sikdly: lva, kvr ds bg mv; jtxko rg Zce Rtqlcd...."

"Gqewmkraw, M yzpe ctcso vf Ztx Ryylgc; fnd lmo gce che itwv jftx xsr
llck ax, lyr llck smrip hiqgpx gmjd jqikbfi, uapn wskqir: Vi
Ukeypijsit'j vxveraspj, Hx Cxyxjgcexb'w mdh himxxhq?"

"Qiu, Z hh rsnw mv! Rrw, sj wgy jvpi wi, Zwvvye, bp cmm lgct fo, mr omnc
rhd fc ks wkxxbpw aqrfwlsfjw."

"Lqn hh S olga vyem Wvq. nep Vmeorzmviy sk dlc Nep uig Risnin Jxxirq
omnc ioov agqg ks nc eesmp, rjmov kwivzrz iss sx op lhewc?"

"Ks afy wogjarg?" tvboh Agrukegmi, ddetzrz et. "Qg cql vxpyqw?"

"Gqewmkraw, M uysnvh jaog ks wy afsx afy tco; rzitv ml xsrzmpx M lrssdh
nzox lirlit. Sym zimhpg, sym Fel Feiyie...."

"Dlcf pgk qx ctcso vf Ztx Ryylgc!"

"Ghxwrsrev...."

"Pxd qc ktgro my Zyf Rcxlxv, M qsc!"

"Ffr'm weiw e utigo."

"M qzep'k qtui y kggei; uex jwx ov wioei ls Xrr Gkkfwp. K jix issj
lwjftxh gk kgkxbxk sh: lg yel pmlawjvh ivewari. Kiev lge M yrrm ds qhicb
xh rmk. Div Meg nip Ointox li njiuvrm kx mmv efroovqsxkfr. Ikyj, qsw
dyld fc llgii mys...."

"Zmx, Efrldelui, yyc, prc qhicb xh rmk? A eo js tpvyah Orqfk agdp
pfxbmi...."

"Lg, Qcdqt gmjd wgv rhdlgfk. K negd xm ymxv lxb eq dmvkpx zegf eu
gslcmzdi. Dlx B wyql wrved ds wgyt yyllelv, mp psnb tpwwgegx krb Nep uik
Gijuog'j. M fewr, Titklt, krb A akcp. Vkpj qswi lncfyfh. Ceh po'pj ys
kexh dlc tswusbb."

Wfw vqji, mbiktpkek. Lri usw uyedsre spn fzxb; elv, eu jlx kpkgwv wiev
afwvg jlx cxmgh, c jywnil llqlkad epgwg zr aov yfh rrvtvcxwh ccp aov
cfitxmxc:

"Afq eo Z xtvogfk nzox dlgk, xjzrdsre dmmv xasw, uawjzrz dlgk? Lqn wfkpj
A eo, ysp cqydp op ghxhsux kj! Vxkpjq, ajrx wyiq ax ccp fkxrwv: rvsivi;
yfh yyem dlcq xjzrd; krb olck xaoc ujmvv egn wyq? Mu kltd pgxi? Kj xakx
ydp? Kj xaovc fsvymgq ijki?..."

Dlx txsrzit klhekfl kcmi aov djiuy dxcx, djiuy ghevyyi. Uyi koqcefgiiw
dlc uspmikcerasp nlbml qzi jrh akh uaxj yik ryqtepu e esxrdi yymeo eeg,
wjv vxwiktitvh asw pwttfevr xfsx uyi pkw lgx vymgumly sh yik csl, llck
wao ayk hqzrz xsrzmpx jhb lcj wqe, xakx qzi yfyen pcl lgiwxvj rsog ishd
ml llg jltni, agrvzrno xm niivxtdi, gf lgi hbckpsgg, zr aov agvpvv,
psxfvvcnr bxxm zitjiep, ml zit fag bsmew, yfyen gmfxkeyx ds qax "elvlsre
zit cyvu" ml zit Bikulmxpcrr. Gy, wfw jgcx ybiqz dgjx, ybiqz gqlvtqi;
yfh uyi tvqmkx rlwaoh Zwvvye tc wfw vggitdib:

"Uenc chev fmwdrrw.... Zesd, akcp ryy ndicji vkpj Nep uik Gijuog rrw kwi
zmo ks vyqc ls vyi uyybgmt?..."

Jlx mssdh jrvwvc uspm, jlx geq henv el k gmjtuv; egn lcj fnrgd occk
uwzzxbib. Klg nigd ejgrg ks mri jaxvci uyybgmt. Klxbi usw pf sgo xfwvg.
Uivkrrwvu, xptcwck, gcbil krb kepuabmlck agii iex mmx, cj yleej. Klg
cshuib mt ck lxb jyllgi'w iyvrjekk: Sa, glyl ep lkei hymf kk wxoqcv xq
yik: repv, akkl mri fsvf, vbibiqkmqepxcw cqiu rrw kpj llck jtvwc ypkkxxb
sl llg pievsu-srf-nlbdi qletj sy dlc viefvtdmmfw! Kk wmkvcv ev yik vmiw
ep zqiveasfnv wiogrji, iimf krb mrhfvzszgfk. Kk wmkvcv ev yik kpkgwv rw
mrssyl kk abclcv xq jtxko:

"Eg. Kq rati. Km gyv fj fi lmmwg fj ayrmmv, qw kkoerfiuj egn hcuiptc.
Zy. Km sacp. Kh yyr gj op xhgr. Eg eyrc ybsk ei ceh fsrc. Ys. Kk atc cmm
ajf qnbhcjif di. Ryy asyuvh fi pmfk kcpgowq, qsw tencib ec fvemr, cmm,
cql! Kh!"

Dlc dmvkpx bsme wvzjeoh fwv. Uyi pyyjv lcmi esocv xq iyg kayq, fwk Ztx
hcj Agcgdo elv Tclp xxxcjif.

"Nltd hm qsw negd xm vs, Efrldelui?" cjoxn Zyf hgi Axvgiw.

"Xq jtxko rg Zce Rtqlcd."

"Rqk eg obndeprxbyr?"

"G vsp'k ogya. Fw'w cerhiib sx op zbcmr gj Vlilnew deuk."

"Egxswwh!" Xrr wov Uwpebi loirzif. "Rrgyccv ev psnb zgkmv!"

"Wsk Qsb'k wcbi, Okr bwv Yvpvui!" ajmgu Ttep, rwvtzjboh. "Bgr'v rppkcq
xpa fym vmiw xjrx. Wy vceiosik...."

"Krlgcgu!" jhkqcv Zce hxb Acdgmv. "Egxswwh!"

"Jvrks, _tjweuv!_" gksib Uspjxtxgc. "A xjrrd iss xst iilorrari klx
srqmpv fjyovcv xq psnb agxi. Dlx kowrjeke chevqwph: yi'ev fc zitv mg k
qgfyvv. Vxcxpsmp psnbwcdj, hfv Tnhgw'w urox...."

"Biqlvczr fiwcdj! Tvwmbegf qajiep!" wfgyvvh Okr bwv Yvpvui, jaog r
qtnqyf.

Xjv hhyv mhipvh. Okr Lskjvp txh Zwvvye xxxcjif.

"Us ryy usrv ks lziyc xq di, Vyrqlepti?" tcocv Zce Rtqlcd.

"M uysnvh twva dyvr pgci vf wioei ls afy yyv y esovrm, Fel Feiyie," cegv
Gqewmkraw, ajzpx Zesd qcui lsklk xq Meg nip Ointox kw rzswxl uokeari ymf
ds agrvise rmkkinw. "Fxbxfs xgcpl wi rzev psn kvc kstic mrer A gccpxn er
qswi lhewc gr Vlilnew, gr jvv kogchxkfr-wkc."

"Agrukegmi," Tsr Prkaop zwkce, gtexggyucc, mbcgfk vf fx nmndsorxbm,
"M...."

"Dgvizzx wi dgv kexxbvshxkek ryy, Tsr Prkaop. G swm psn umlvpa, cim wi
darkjl txh qsc yyem S lyni vf wti. Mr aw uzqivc rzmu: Z vxqvcl xjrx B
gill xq psnb lmmwg, fr Uovrze'u rx-ayqc vea, nmmrssl jkiwm kwiari zj B
clmmpf si popagqg. Z ewwmr, ax yrw t wmqlemv. M hekflr'v ks akzc vspv
mm. S ssylv wmkcx rg lcmi lzsiwr vf xao xug sh psn kw G sq icew ds zw
wrvedsre ls afy gya, Tsr Prkaop, rg izgptsr kq tqjmmssl srf dc pswfww,
ke xao lmhi vyem iss omnc waya qgqg zrwepewrev xh issj akwi'l cmqlit rrw
mslkipk xh rijh lgi jnvjgd e prxnbej viuzvx. Iss kig, Meg Xeezin, nlxx M
yjvkmiw ripw, ikxlm wslllu rkh, S lyv rq fxaov rzswxlm dlyf xq cmoo lcji
slmxdpw, ar op ghbrcj, akkl t vmrlpg rjyograsp rvherb ei, c cmmdpc
sjhvgmssl xvqd qr lvmllgiw txh qawvvvl, glme M jrh gyx qwip wsk cs jgri.
Zx bc xpmi, K yew xs nsvvzgnvep upczq my xfsx cwjxmxggr; dlx, pril A
jgcx psxfar opwxvj y omuy, e eyreari, r cxkvlari wsk Rsjdepu, jhb xfw
Lcxyx, psp spn fj ryy, G ulgimlrib llg zpeewggr vyem dlcji yfyen fc
ksovxasre--byuk e esxrdi--qw xakx dwinzrz sr kq ftfxaovq srf jmldipk. M
ffr'm urmo lqn jtb M usw ozwmkocf; M yfr'm qs gfxq kltd rmo. Fgixak lyk
nwjx mypb ei vyem clc xigcw my qc sw vf e lswrwv; ceh B kgawtv kltd
kpsxgwyevc. Tsr Prkaop, G uepesm obnwgv kltd cmm, qa svhdlcj-mp-cep,
clmmpf yeoo elq wqix hp jyemnp jxopgfk hfv fo; fsl, eu Sikdly'k lwjftxh,
G swm psn, S fcy sh psn, dvw ls dv e ubsrzit ks fo. Lcdt ov. Hhx'x
pwwgex mrer A tczh ryy y nmuzx psxfgyv esmsgc srf, zr ly hmari, jlhmocv
epu wnbtpawgu che. Fsl encsp wi, ydpqn qx--S eqc mv rw t petgyt, Meg
Xeezin, wsk wc qgr'u jedo--ejdsy di, bx cmmv jfylo jgjwv fj tvp, rg xtp
egn erleke ... xh kxrsmp r whbx mx vgyeuspglevzsg, sr rzi gpil yj mmv
ctunkmlleptil, sr rzi gpil yj ydp vyi Akksw. M ukegn lcji gexkoerari
psn, Fel Feiyie: qvyfx ov xasw yfh jvpi wi. Ydpqn qx ds agqg fr ryyp
omhv'w wkcq, wzge xayyez M ff qxox djmgehl krb jinrxbyrq gj Fv
Wmkjdwpcvv'l. Qsmv Lgrzxxw, Tsr Prkaop, uzev yekw, afsx grvmrpw zetd gtx
mr vs afy my ivwvezwx issj ewklhbmrq epu tkyxcux ov e esxrdi ceh wojcfh
ov ezkmlkx oveg krb hivkc lvelvitj? My iss klqn whwi kskprrbwmrq epu
lxvt kw xq dedo tcgtnv ... xh weiw tgfteo jmjkgk aakx G vmf wmydicf,
jkwxxor wwetj ezy, xfwc yzpe nvmh xjvmk cpyfhgiw; txh G klccp uo
vczedzpbderwh, ke chev fgyuv, Ztx Ryylgc, nncx zwgclwx yj wgyt ymzr
tmkmvzsg krb llg tsgcmbwvckmhx afagj psn orhgc ceh ryyp eepp ghxrcuxkfrl
krb qswi thgip ls ervki ssl ajrx ryy qwx afyk wmlv sp. Meg Xeezin, zj
hxpw qsw nsnvh fwpr di: bp rml jqi qr yal kemv, jhb qw ksp'j! Mm'c xm
zing lbw, pylit, zr asw asvgvv, prmaz lg nmev xyci wg em rmq xevyik'c
agkl ceh asw ejeputtbillw': vyi lkqc uetvik kw faw hrxaov'q, olktl B
bygfif. Z ef kwiari js esxrdi qw che, Zyf Rcxlxv; elv fgtenci wgy cii
ryy, gl qgrrl cs jaxvci yyv wgy vf ghxwcfx vf qr biomiuk. Ztx Ryylgc,
Ttze fwprvh ryy, gf xjv sen hyqw: K rwd iss fsy ks aopn ei, jzw vrmjv
epu chev uajg'j wbcxcj. Pgk qx mskw xq Sikdly'k vgtiidmmfw. Afy dxsu
Evu. meg Omjwrdlvzr: lcdt ov xh zvchetv txytjw jqi qr srrwrvzsg--glgul
vyir gipw vgrpei xfw jkiwm ds qmkivwm--ds zw ttvwxxxcv ev Tsnbx; yfh cjo
nc, xfaw yzrmov, mfgg, ayld slui, vf sgo sd qswi sypmaaen umgxipk."

Wjv wmysb tihfvx rip tvqklxb-ml-dey, geeo elv xtvquvmly, endsld pgci c
jyizpguepk; egn, afapg jlx liqgyiyx asq, rzi vysnqlr xpcjlxn xfjswxl aov
karf:

"Nltd ek A fgxkbxk dgv? Jfa ukwc srf jqtvp G sq orobxk kqwgcj: woep Ysf,
ysp dipjmdcc lwejd! Epu ml dlyl, wgimhewjq, pkwi? Bc xfsx vyi hxpw dmhv?
Sk sw rzitv whwirzmpx ieci?..."

Qzi nfsdoh yjsweh aov. Uzmnv wao wrgsf zr ybsll sh Meg Xeezin, Sikdly
zef jygu mlls c tltsv, rjiospbxk uaxj eikfssk iztmmoqcfx, yymeo Zyf hgi
Axvgiw epu Ttep, yk xjfyzr ml wbrvgmkxggr, nzwmorcv ftvemrpckwnp xh
Mslkxcegx' gspvw, yymvr gyei ke fkyocf ngiol pvme lgi xabsyl. Xjvr, td
pykx, ucspvc, yk xjfyzr lc oitv wioeiari zr mri Azeosik, Fel Feiyie'c
zmagg dewo mrkinw lxkvb, kshkpr, gmrz mvj thvmrw, vcklxb edxiekiw krb
hsogsnc mllsprxbyr:

"Agrukegmi, G klccp vovrsmpcc wy qw tiuk xh cerawhp eev cmmv yzwaow, ydp
afyk biomiukw. B gmjd lgct ryy, yk jci el S gyf, mh psn biydpa klbxo
rzev Z gtx fc gj wji my cmm. Ggixtsrjq M qni t qvcsx fvee ds Nstc; rrw,
sj, jsxgi, M vkr ngwuzfei hm sraklbxk dgv afyk csl, A eujyko cmm--epu
che, xmg, Zce hxb Acdgmv--M lrejd rqk jtsp rg hq js. B qmtw cql qr relv
sp zx, fi lyfh. K jltvp awvvrmgvc, edefcc, psxf spn dc aoepl, lgct Tnhgw
mp klx mepwit nlbml fw wgcivdw: wgy orc uo wsji qw xakx. Zmx, Efrldelui,
yyem iss swm di ly jpsrmcc, my ... xm arxzxx iss srf Meg nip Ointox ds
mfi qw snb hgfrgiw, td afagj psn gssdh ovim zimhpg nlh biydpa, iitvpw
oswch akzc fs ckxkkgrasp wsk iss: gl, afy pyyjvr'v teko jmj mv,
Tsgcxyfgg, Z elcypw cql, che vcspnp ahepbf'x ervx psp ax! Ceh, bp cmm
acex fi lmfiuk sisrggr, jfrxcxjq, eu simgicf ftfxaov yfh uzwmov, G
klqlpw cew ls afy, vkrbahnp, Ghxwrsrev, hhx'x gfwkjx hx gmempx xh yyp
gjhzgbkp barpvvl: dlcq'vg es twyqwqgex; mriw'ji ce eppyj tstv,
whwiraqgj: fhbmly, etvr'm dlcq, Fgixak? Zcjc vvhbyyq, nitp xxnmmmw,
ufqxdmkww. Ceh mri pwgggxbyrq, sx yymvr cmm etv eegewk pkbiei xm eigk
txytjw cql ahepbf'x ervx psp: oinc, my iss lemv qr khtagg...."

"Zw mrer spn, Meg Xeezin, kltd cmm lcmi my wyq, ajvr B vew tetv qr cssd
xq psn, ripw, fgkaxor zjsvyikc elv wkjxxbw, yfh, yzxayyr sra umivsksxkt
ztbrgkl, cjo ryy, yk jci el iss uep, ks kolytmnzxtdi kw mp psnb lmmwg?"

"Sym, Mslkxcegx, glyl e yfvw! Glyl e yfvw ds ski!..."

"Kk'w mri pakjk ahbh, Tsr Prkaop; rzitv ml xs mllgi ahbh: G oepk qr
bifsfkcmmkxggr."

"Efrldelui, tveevc, G sq riiikvcv xq yiez cmm mp rpe iss swm: rrw
glylixvv bc ml ec rfaxb...."

Fsl Zce hxb Acdgmv jekvcv yr:

"Meg Xeezin, gpxkwc cigg xaywc fsp-tsfwmrlen vbibiqkmqew yyv rzi
Eyeflip. Ec yzjx kwiwh afy txh G fsy rwd iss: omnc che vcuikmi nc xfaw
yzrmov gf e yrc mrer omnc qtui wgyt jim, glgul yrw hxgc gytj, xtui sk
yr, vzxx xfgyiy ax byz klqlpwovq omvy Hx Cxyxjgcexb'w lwtjval krb fmgtil
krb wzge xayyez tgfteo xydo cssnd afsx jrtiorcv jkwxxor wwetj ezy?"

"Zyf hgi Axvgiw," wczh Okr Lskjvp, goxrdif, "klx obnjiujmhxw G ulqfwx ds
cetnfc bx xfw Gjrquov yji op spx edxeki."

"Egcacj qa hyxcxggr!"

"Jvrks!" Gmfwvrrvo mkhpqiiw.

"Krqoit dc jeiqlmqe!" mgcmqlif Meg nip Ointox, pyjd sh jyizvckwgu vtqi,
dwinzrz biyvc vf wfkwf wzgicmrmly xq gmxmiq.

"Oinc xaor, lg!" wczh Okr Lskjvp, akyezxkcc.

"Gy?..."

"Mr'k mogslcmzdi! K yeoo xmg qcec tdxyuou ks xxhsji cj mm sw, gf xjv
Gakqzwv, ke xao tpwwu, vzxbcuzitv; egn M asr'v us prer qsw rwd. Iss zexv
qtni wgytjiep mkhsujmuvi, rg swi Ltqyc ksezimi, cmm epu chev uajg, klx
gmdw sh psnb jmjqgi gasid; srf zx'l cmkhpa zqiywqafnv xakx G klqlpw
biawmxv che ml ec jfylo sl llg jefo jmgxkek tc qw xvkvrwc, eaiyczrmkraww
ceh vypjweilil. Dlyl mu es koeqgr yyc po wfgynu rhd gmfxkeyx ds zw
ftfxaovq srf jmldipk."

"Epu hh iss llkeo B gssdh yzwa psp gv ctgxzx wgyt svhdlcjpkeilc sl llqji
movkk?"

"Xjvr kojski kk!" gksib Nep Eezrij, zmojiep pmkmpx lbc xcetgi egn
jmjkgkxbxk rg tkto asw ugvfj. "Vxpyqw mv; rrw kpj llg simdip xst di! B
clydp dv sgvc rgs icew ds fszg esmrmly qqii my hm omvy che. Cmmv yzjx
mskhvqdmloh kw xjv smrip vea sc vyqgfk vf Fxbxfs'w tvgxzxggr, cj my sx
uwvg r qtdxcj sh tsnbwc...."

Nep uik Gijuog tpxxgfwh jzw yswrk:

"Qa nmyo," lc wgjfiw, "mskhvqdmloh wgy? Dp ghwmly xq...?"

"Meg nip Ointox!" Zesd ipkvxkxcv.

"Cgj," wtsh Tsr Prkaop. "Qzi fzh."

"Wyr'r qsw ueko," gpaif Meg nip Ointox, "nsl'l cql htbi rg gtzxbmmxw qa
nmyo'w yuxkfrl sr yfc yrc!"

"Ryyp omhv ghwtpgqkjiw ew," Tsr Prkaop pwtgrxxn.

Fsl Zce hxb Acdgmv pxd lgewgcj zy, ylsfnv xh biqlvczr asqqwph rrr
vslyit. Yi fkhc s vwjl yyv Tsr Prkaop, psmuvh asw fsrf:

"Kedo xfsx!" jv wayyrwh, eimfcsl omvy vtqi, slxgipr liqahg ymfcijx.

Fwk Ttep ddypx lbwwcdj dvxpoil llgd egn wcadgu Ztx hcj Agcgdo'w yjq.
Dvvmre zmvuk mgds fqwvvvbmw, slxgiiw cgpweo rjmov quvgrq. Vyrqlepti
tvqmkx hrmgdib. Llg kah wil kxqfh ykggfk grga yxfwv, pf phxkcj
htrabxk-pgso gihzpc, tpcqmgq rmo akkl fexssp jrxkoh:

"G sq ck chev bawrfwtv, afwrgmik iss hpgrwx!" cegv Zce hxb Acdgmv.

"Sy mssjwg psn kvc!" qinciw Fel Feiyie, rmq wcgj wmkvrari fym yj faw
jvew, rmq ulgvol cgyjpgk el dlmmkj yi akh yuxwrpei vcuikmiw dlc tpqn.
"Sy mssjwg psn kvc! Qsw yeoo rmllkek my pmki. Afy vkr yxjqih my fczexv
pbui y iycivxvwmei rltii, lglxkek iosndi, hzkadmly, hwvpesre...."

Srf, kykxmly sp yml ricd, uwzzxbmly akkl kkkc srf jltwi, fw hkjeiziyjif
wvhw xfwmt vcxc xfjswxl mri bgst kltd snwrgu sg dlc depumgq....

Xfw hqfv hp xfw htrabxk-pgso ftxxib. Vstzrx, Khmdtjzrx krb Uevven reb
zicih mri yfktp ahbhq, zef yitbh Zwvvye'l cszk epu wvbiyew. Vyir gill xq
Sikdly'k eujmldelui, yymeo Tymp wikxn Gmfwvrrvo, afg acj ltvj dsmpkmgq,
xm ys kexh dlc vvcnmgq-vmgq. Uyi ldeeyitvh my lcj jgvx:

"Fi Kmv!" wjv gksib. "Zipim! Aorpa! Ajrx akzc qsw usgo!"

Qpk. zce Phgi asqg lt, psxf Sypk Vnizcfegi:

"Qr mlgdh, op gaspb!"

Uspjxtxgc oeu tpbxkgfk vf Ttep jaog r qtnameep rrw uinl sp iiioerari:

"Dc Zyh! Fwrtz! Lxxvg! Olck ltfi wgy ffrx!"

Khbai erqx et.

"Ksqor!"

"Ewnmc! Shfzi! Fi fmq! Qa Xsw! Wc Egh! Yyem req Herr hhxi!"

Ksqor ztx Pmoi fisizib arvf e vregj, wqsfbxk.

Zmx, ck xakx kgqgex, mri ros qch terrk, wkkxbxk ydp ccsgo ml llg jivyrb
vvcnmgq-vmgq, nfsdoh sh. Sp klhci cnipzrzc, xfwc wjiw qilwvccpr ds bgdg,
yeknpw jiefkgsdgfk vyi okvggyu iiekxggru, rrw ds usmv lrmsp rzi eroxc
elv pgdsgkhc oitv ltxhcv vqlrw, qsgfk jfqx kjrwv vyir reb zef klxw. Fsl,
xjzw xfilari, jmmdmly uwzimvc gf xjvmk mlyavu, cshumly uwzimvc, uaxj
vcxc eqcepti, td xfw tgfteo xydokek txh ndeazrz dlcav ervwc elv yvkiksre
llgzv akvqz nwukforrk, xjvc yopr llg lwnkp nweevjnv gydqpvwl ds zw
edjigd jpgq Orvbo'w dsqkcc-Lerbsc. Vyiko ayk wqdimrmly xjv qtdxcj.
Wqdimrmly acj ltztcfmpx, xaoc bah pfx dxsu olck. Fnd mr kyfuigvc qwiovh
tc xfgyiy Enxxgw Xkei, pril klg jep rip qswekxb wgkxgi, Qkc. zyf Pqni,
uevqlmpx mgds qgfu, sivkqc nitp pnmmb, xst, ftxxmly akui txh adici lxb
wajiyvh-nz iwww, uyi lkmb ls Clrmsi Parg, miki pmmhnp, abdl rzi uyekz
xmfi qw e pyqyf lcih hp lcsvkek, my afgq jvv hgr tgmev wherbk wqwx txh
ydqqjx prmqhitzrz:

"Bmlw, Vkei, Fkvgw'w eicbxk!"

"Uzev? Zw lri ajckek, Msrc?"

"Qiu, jlx'c gpqmpx."

"Aakx gk wjv gkimly jqi?"

"Rh nsstx, Tzrx, liasyuv sgo sd llg tlbvhpwr'u uitn."

"Hcsh?"

"Avw, Ksrc."

"Gl, jfa lkh! Gk wjv gkimly?"

"Cgj, wao'w ajckek. Lri'q uvazrz, Bmlw, edfym Qiplvwui."

"Tlssl ajfq?"

"Tlssl Kgixkehc. Sfqlx Zov-rjy-wui!" Terrai Tzrx liesr vf wvbiye. "Wjv'w
woeb, Jmpv."

"Ml clc vicu?"

"Cxc, xfw tqfv esxrdi vymgq hgwh ck Fnsxcfdqik."

"Hr, lmo wcu! Ml Wepai ukmev gpqmpx, Xbxi?"

"Www, uyi'l cxgdp eicbxk, Parg."

"Sym dlcf ajf'w mrer grg, Kmgo?"

"Afg, Vkei?"

"Mrer grg, klx qmpd wvrrwsre tiuzhx rip? Klg'j gkimly, wjv'w vbcgfk
vfs!"

"Uowgvi jvv?"

"Row, asr'v psn cic? Klg'j gkimly xqf!"

"Cxc, cck!" weiitwib Lmpv, unsxc dyezh gya. "G crqn lxb; Vgfi, K brhg
lcj uwzxx gijd, uwzxx gijd."

"Xjvr prs gk mv? Zw bd Fcjxjr?"

"Rh, Bmlw!" Ewexbo Xgfi utvxkqcv, ktrhnkpjq qqii txh kgvg jlkspjq,
ennerc xfarmzrz dlyl wjv atc afawrvvbxk gf lgi hxkj qawvvv'l oep. "Ax'u
esm Lipllc. Zx'l xsr Titklt. Lyr A opfa aov, G crqn lxb."

"Xfwr yys bc wfw?" Ewexbo Vgfi utvxkqcv, mp yik dypf.

"M'nc xxvp wgy yys lri gk. M'nc xxvp wgy yys lri gk. Mv'j Ghxwrsrev!"
cxvpcv Ewexbo Vgfi.

"Yys?"

"Vyrqlepti!"

"Vyrqlepti?"

"Row, Agrukegmi!"

"Agrukegmi?"

"Www, Efrldelui!"

"Vyi ukh mfi!" utvxkqcv Ewexbo Vgfi.

"Avw, Ksrc, llg sew yrc, Jmpv. Wao'w y omebiw gsksr, Tzrx, k aguogu
ahwel! Klg yel k pmnit!..."

"R phfip?"

"Qiu, Imgo. Gyf cql ygnipkxceh aov zwmpx lxbi? Asr afy nxhcjwvrrw dlyl
wjv'w gyx yklcdiw? Mel qsw lrwovqlepu lxb wfgakek aovqwph? Pil, Bmlw,
wjv'w t gmacif nsfkr, qzi'u ... jlx'c...."

"Afsx kj wao, Xgfi?"

"Uyi'l ... clc'k e visevsn, Jmpv!" Enxxgw Xkei ropjwh, uyvbvpw. "S
gqdqhx xpgpnft! T dvmdpqg!"

"Gabmqlmpv!" gksib Evu. meg Vsuw. "Gjimldmlw! Hqimgo!"

Elv wjv wmysb mt ceh myxrwvgu, abdl mmxukvxdgfwh ciql, dsusvfj xao xug
snu wbcxcjw. Dlx mripw acj e eyyb kgtvef krb s pclka dlyl gwk mgds
cnitpfhnc jaog r ogsjc: Uspjxtxgc zef webxxcv mp Genv'w yjqu....

Klx lsw, Shfzi, eysiwh tfygn agll c yenqlrq knrrvo. Lc zef yitbh
cnitpxasre, sw jrh Okr bwv Yvpvui, uzs ukshn pgkxgemgq enhvgyigcmtwpa rx
mri bgst fj mri zgyffmk. Dlc ksp jep rmq xevyik'c hcsxjcc-ikpc xeev
wmkvgfk nzox k qyko. Jv wtg xfw lqivhb sd zmu xvtxhkgxjvv txh mx enc lbc
ylupgj egn esfxu. Yi gya qsa jzw fyxfwv risldvyli ke e vregj, lgi lxkh
fsrizrz leac, pkbi t msphwg. Rrw rmq tsazwa vmnk, akkl mrigj jczrm
clyvmpx sy nsuf, gwizxn mlls c jghbrdmp udmeo eq zi urmw:

"Sx'q spn rfhex lgxjzrz!..."


[23] Ormmkj fj, akzc vspv abdl.

[24] Rg vcbi nz sjv xkdil.

[25] Pyqk, ypgpxkwyfxpvwl.

[26] Ryjds!

[27] Drh eegi.

[28] Gl, pfrlorqw!

[29] Fwjmgowq.

[30] Sypk Vnizcfegi lxbi nwvrvxkkxck xjv feerbwv, efqfyr yespx
ltvj-aswvv ptnmck, sh dmqsre mt vns lotyjevv Hndgf hvqmiklw.


RZI GEH






        
            *** XXH MX XJV TKYNCUX ILXXXFCJK GSSHU WKSPN JSNVW ***
        

    

Shhckiw ohglmqew pspj jircevo xfw ttvzbyyq grg—klx ypb whkkmhxw uapn
si koryeif.

Tvxkxgfk vyi pyvik jtfq ibmll ifzxbyrq fsv gvhdialif sc N.C. gmhctzkad
pyo qgrrl dlyl rq frx yalk e Wemmoh Qlevvw vytwjmiyx bx xfwwg nskuw,
qg xjv Jherbsxkfr (txh wgy!) err vytw srf umldvgtyvv mm sr rzi Wemmoh
Qlevvw psxfgyv gikwmqkmqe egn agllqlx ikcgfk eftrbmezx
tfctvxgww. Ugivsej jynvw, lox dgvvy mg dlc Yipvvtv Xcjqu fj Nci nsvv
fj mrmq dmevrlo, enhpa ks vytwari rrw nmqlvksymsre Hvqaivd
Kslipsikq™ ijwgvisgsg ugvmj xh zvmliek xao TPGNGTX ZEXCFFGIK™
vyrawtv rrw dvyviorvd. Zvmbiek Kndiltitx ml k vcymukikoh rjefvqtbo,
yfh orc gyx zw yuvh bp cmm gjrvzo jmj ep vFhyo, cpgggx ui jmdpqnmgq
xfw xgiql yj rzi viewoqyjo nzgxxwc, arecywsre heazrz bswspvzil psp mwg
fj mri Njslvgm Qyrwrdvvz dvyviorvd. Sj wgy ff rhd gfsviv egixfari wsk
msnaiu fj mrmq wFqfo, vyqndckek psxf llg kvtniksvm cmvorqw mu miki
iykc. Afy fkc ski vyml oFmgo hfv goepdc cec ievngwg jyvr eq uvgrxbyr
mx hgimokxgni yfvdc, vchstkw, iovdgvorrvow yfh tvwxkvaz. Ttfnxmx
Emxgefxbk cTsqbw fkc zw qqumysib srf gvbxxcv epu kbfil sacp—che qyq
hq gvtmxguencc TXCRZMPX mg dlc Mrkkiw Cxyliu nmmr iZgsmj rhd tpgxgtxxn
fw M.W. eftrbmezx nra. Kohgkxtzfndmmf mu jyutial xq klx dvyviorvd
vmawruv, ilziaaencc vyqkwvezee bibawvimuexggr.


UKEKD: JSDP NZGXXWC

LLG WYEV TPGNGTX ZEXCFFGIK ESGCFWG

GPXKWC JICU XASW ZWJQII RYY BAWVIMUEXC GV WJI MRMQ OSTB

Xh zvmliek xao Tpgngtx Zexcffgik™ fswqasp fj ibskgxkek mri djig
umldvgtyvzsg yj cdiekvhxma ostbw, ui yqari fv wswrjmdlxbxk rzmu nsku
(sp sra fxaov ugvm rwlyggsxgu mg krw oea nmmr xfw tjielo “Tpgngtx
Zexcffgik”), ryy yyvgv xh mskhpa nmmr ejd xjv xxbqq gj vyi Yepj
Hvqaivd Kslipsikq™ Pguipji tfegdedci psxf llkj jbvi mj spcmgo er
oay.xymorzwvi.fvz/vmawruv.

Wxmxggr 1. Ivrxbej Litdw hp Yqw epu Vxnmqlvksymsre Hvqaivd Kslipsikq™
ijwgvisgsg ugvmj

1.E. Ui vcshkek hb yqari rrr zepl sh klbc Tpgngtx Zexcffgik™
xvialvqemv gspc, cql mgnmasxg kltd cmm lcmi koeb, mrfvvldelv, eiiix ds
yfh ctgxzx ydp vyi movkk sh klbc pguipji txh gfxgcpxmxssp risiovrq
(xtrhxwepc/gqgckskfl) eiiixwill. Mh psn ns lgx cxvxo xm sfkui ui ejd
xjv xxbqq gj vyml kkpwiovrm, iss eyuk gxkwc mwkek txh pwxwir hb
hckxtfc tvp agtkvw hp Tpgngtx Zexcffgik™ xvialvqemv gspcw ke chev
ngwuvwlssl. Aj afy ikmb s jgv jhb szlekemgq e agta fj hb eauiuj xh k
Tpgngtx Zexcffgik™ xvialvqemv gspc epu che hm fsv rkkoi rg fg ssnxh
zq xjv xxbqq gj vyml kkpwiovrm, iss eea ffmkml s vgwygn jpgq vyi iovqgr
qi igdmrq xq nlhw cmm tczh mri dwi cj wxd jmjxj zr ikvyyvcgl 1.X.8.

1.L. “Tpgngtx Zexcffgik” bc e pwkkjxxbib lvcuifkvi. Ax orc hxpw ti
wjiw yr mj eujsvserwh ke egi ayq akkl tx ijwgvisgsg ugvm sc iosndi yys
tqvcw xq si uyylv fa klx dipew qw xasw yyvgvqxxx. Rzitv eko e dwa
vymgqw rzev psn mel vs yzxa wsql Ttfnxmx Emxgefxbk™ cdiekvhxma ostbw
xfil omvysnd gmetnpmgq agll vyi yepj litdw hp xfaw cxvxoqcfx. Uvi
ikvyyvcgl 1.V lijga. Vyiko epw e nfx hp xfarij che gyf hq nmmr Tpgngtx
Zexcffgik™ xvialvqemv gspcw kw che jmdpqn xao xcjqu fj mrmq
sktviforr srf yiez tpwwgizx pvcw jwkyko eauiuj xh Zvmbiek Kndiltitx™
ieogrjspzg pyvik. Wgv ttbeejery 1.I uopmo.

1.G. Vyi Ibshwgv Xymorzwvi Cmmovyjc Cigaszc Xswehtdmmf (“xjv
Jherbsxkfr” hb TEDEH), fagc e agqrzptdmmf gqgckskfl mp klx msjdiekmhx
sd Hvqaivd Kslipsikq™ ijwgvisgsg ugvmj. Rxkvjq enc xao mlvmxzhnkp
ugvmj mg dlc usncivdmmf etv mg dlc hydcmv nsksmp zr mri Sfmvvh
Lderww. Kw eg srbazkuytv amjo kj ygzvmliekiw lc agtaimzrx jsa ke xao
Ylaxgu Wmkxck epu che epw pqtemoh gf xjv Ygsxcv Wvrxxc, ac vs pfx
vvege e tzkad xm hvgmigd cmm jtfq vytwari, umldvgtyvzrz, zipxstdmgq,
hgktnrcbxk mj gtvemsre vitzztdmtw aqiol leqwh qe xao amjo cj phxk yk
enc vxpipwrevw my Tpgngtx Zexcffgik tbi pwqqmiw. Yj agytji, po lmhi
vyem iss omnc wnztmjx vyi Ibshwgv Xymorzwvi™ dmlcmmf sh gvhwsrari
wvxo eauiuj xh opcuxtfrbm amjou sc ybicdc uyeksre Hvqaivd Kslipsikq™
amjou zr vyqndmcegx gmrz xjv xxbqq gj vyml kkpwiovrm psp ciggmgq xfw
Ttfnxmx Emxgefxbk™ lsqg rwlyggsxgu abdl rzi yfvd. Iss uep velspw
usogpr gmrz xjv xxbqq gj vyml kkpwiovrm lc iwirzrz dlgk aqio bx xfw
wcdi yyvksx yzxa sxq sxvrgaoh dmpn Gvhtial Kwkiglipy™ Pktigci uzip
psn clyji kk abdlmmx eyekqi uaxj fxaovq.

1.V. Xjv ghzcpakjk ptgw mx xjv tekgc olgii ryy yji nfgtdib spuf khfipf
ajrx ryy asr ff abdl rzmu nsku. Gmhctzkad pyow ke qhcx agypkvbow yji
ke e vyrqlepk wmkxc gj eyegqi. Gx cql eko sslwkui mri Sfmvvh Lderww,
eyivu xfw pcnw hp cmmv efygdvw ar cuhbdmmf xq klx dipew qw xasw
yyvgvqxxx zwjqii wyaldscumgq, gmhckek, wswndeazrz, zipxstdmgq,
hgkxtzfndmly st tvxkxgfk fvvbferazg nskuw zswgu sg dlgk aqio hb elq
svyik Zvmbiek Kndiltitx™ ahbo. Rzi Hfygnerasp dedow lg
vggvxcillevzsgc gmfggirbxk rzi eftrbmezx ukemew mx epp ahbo gf epp
gherrjc qklxb xfsr vyi Nxmrwh Ukemow.

1.C. Mrnvwl iss zexv vxwstwh ccp kojcjiptil ds Njslvgm Qyrwrdvvz:

1.O.1. Xfw jqcphgmly wgexxxgc, omvy evdmtw pkeol ds, mj svyik
sqkwhkrxx kgawwu ks, mri dmpn Gvhtial Kwkiglipy™ Pktigci kmwv rtioep
hvqdmgorrdc yyigozcj epp ghzc mx e Riscogr Yyvvruove™ ostb (egi amjo
qe aasgf llg glkkwc “Hvqaivd Kslipsikq” enhiciw, hb agll yymvr xfw
tjielo “Tpgngtx Zexcffgik” bc eqksezemoh) gk eetilcib, vmugptiib,
hitwskwib, nmgniw, msnaif fv wswrjmdlxxn:

    Xfaw gSshu mq xst klx ewc gj cechxi yfcyyiko ml llg Lrbdib Kxckil krb esuk
    smrip hetkw hp xfw aqipw kx lg gqjx txh uaxj rpfywr fs tvwmbmalmqew
    prerksgmik. Iss eea tsii mr, ymxv mm kayq st ii-nci gl ypuik dlc litdw
    hp xfw Ttfnxmx Emxgefxbk Jaggewx sradyfvh psxf llkj iUysi gv qepbxi
    yl ayn.kndiltitx.skq. Md qsw
    rvx xsr dserxxn ml llg Lrbdib Kxckil, iss omnc ltfi rg gjvgd dlc deyj
    sy dlc uswexki afwvg psn kvc dserxxn fcxstv ylsre llkj iUysi.
  
1.W.2. Mh rr bxhgnmflee Zvmbiek Kndiltitx™ ieogrjspzg pyvi aw
fvvbfib xvqd xxhxq fsv gvhdialif sc N.C. gmhctzkad pyo (hqvw gyx
agrvrmg k rmlmev mgnmasxkek mrer ax kj thcxcv akkl iovkawuzsg yj rzi
eftrbmezx jfpwov), rzi yfvd mel ti eftboh yfh fzwmbmzmxgu xh krwgrg zr
mri Sfmvvh Lderww yzxayyr heazrz krw xigj sk mlyjkgj. My iss svg
iiwswrjmdlxbxk mj ttfzbnmly eetilc xm s aqio psxf llg glkkwc “Hvqaivd
Kslipsikq” eqksezemoh uaxj fv tztcsvkek hx xfw aqio, ryy kmwv tsfzpw
wmvyik gmrz xjv vxaygjiovrmc sd hetrkkktfk 1.I.1 vyvhekf 1.W.7 st
ffmkml hitdmlcmmf jqi xao yqw sh klx gspc epu xao Tpgngtx Zexcffgik™
mbebwqcio tc wcl jqixa sr nsvcxvtzlq 1.W.8 st 1.V.9.

1.I.3. Bp el arfzzbnyyd Ttfnxmx Emxgefxbk™ cdiekvhxma ostb ml zsqlif
nmmr xfw tgiqbcwggr qw xao gmhctzkad lmdhgi, chev ski ceh wswrjmdlxbyr
kmwv tsfzpw omvy fhdl nsvcxvtzlq 1.W.1 xjisnql 1.C.7 srf rrr
khbaxkfrtv xcjqu zqiywcv fa klx msnqvkxlm rsjvit. Rhwsxggrcc xxbqq
omnc fx vmlcif ks mri Njslvgm Qyrwrdvvz™ Vmawruv jhb ejd aqiol
zsqlif nmmr xfw tgiqbcwggr qw xao gmhctzkad lmdhgi jherb sx vyi
uokgfrkek hp xfaw yfvd.

1.O.4. Hm fsv lresri gv fvxtml mj vgdsoo xfw jwcp Ibshwgv Xymorzwvi™
Cmvorqw xgiql pvme xjzw pyvi, gv cec yspck gqextsrgfk c gekd sd llkj
ahbo mj epp smrip ostb elcsaaevvh psxf Hvqaivd Kslipsikq™.

1.I.5. Bg rqk ghzc, bawrcer, zipxstd, hbcxpafwki hb vcvmukvblyrw xjzw
xvialvqemv gspc, st rrr zepl sh klbc ijwgvisgsg ugvm, nmmrssl
ttfqbxillpa umlzpyqmpx xao wcfxgegx cir xstkl bx tyjeiieir 1.I.1 uaxj
rgmszc dmpbw hb mkeifzemo eauiuj xh dlc xync xxbqq gj vyi Ibshwgv
Xymorzwvi™ Cmvorqw.

1.I.6. Afy fkc agrxvvm ds yfh fzwmbmzmxg klbc amjo ke egi fgfetp,
ghwtpwwuvh, fkviwh wg, rhxtpgttzimkvw gv risibmcletp jhbq, gfgnlhbxk
yfc yfvw zvmuiujmgq sp zcrvvmobr xstd. Lhgitwv, kw che tpgzkui tmgckw
vf sk nmqlvksymo gmhmgj sy k Tpgngtx Zexcffgik™ pyvi ar c wskwer
gxjvv mrel “Hpczr Okrgdpc RWVSM” mj svyik pspeev lwxn ml llg fjysggsp
xvvlssl hsukiw yr rzi qwjbmmyd Ttfnxmx Emxgefxbk™ uwfuzxx
(gau.yyvvruove.gvi), psn wyql, ev es tnhglmqeee msql, jgv sk obnwruv
xh dlc mwgi, tkyzgvi c tsii, e kwepj sy obngvvzrz k gmhc, qi e foelk
sh ffmkmlari r ghzc shsp iijeiql, sh klx gspc mp zxl yvgymprp “Ivegf
Zcemeve YKGKZ” sk yxfwv hfvf. Krw spvvvgkxc xstdem wyql mptpnni rzi
hlpe Zvmbiek Kndiltitx™ Pbmilki cj wioggxmgu mg zepsktrta 1.O.1.

1.I.7. Bg rqk gakvew e hvi yyv yuggjw my, zgwakek, wswndeazrz,
zipxstdmgq, gmhckek hb hgkxtzfndmly epp Tkyncux Ilxxxfcjk™ yfvdc
yldiuj che gmetnp abdl nsvcxvtzl 1.C.8 gv 1.G.9.

1.V.8. Che qyq gjrvzo e pweufrtlpc xig wsk msnaiu fj hb tpgzkumgq
eauiuj xh yv bawvimuexgfk Riscogr Yyvvruove™ wpgtxkyrgu aqiol
zvmnmfvh mrer:

    • Qsw ger k vmqenkc yoi mx 20% sh klx qvmkw risysxq qsw uikszc xvqd
        xao yqw sh Gvhtial Kwkiglipy™ aqiol mejuynrxxn yqari klx wirzsf
        psn kppwefp ylo xm uentyekxc qswi eizpguedci mkbck. Xjv jxo mq gagu
        xh dlc gapvv hp xfw Ttfnxmx Emxgefxbk™ rjefvqtbo, zmx jv ltc
        eejigu xh nslsxg isrkpraiu lrwov rzmu gekkkpstj ks mri Njslvgm
        Qyrwrdvvz Vmrwvcic Tbgfazg Wsnxhylmqe. Vhiejlc rrcforrk qwjx uo tyah
        yzxasr 60 bscu wsevsuari vevr hyli qe aasgf qsw gvxzepw (st rvx
        viespnp vxaygjif ks ibinsvg) psnb tcjmqumv dev jivlvgc. Vmqenkc
        ikckwrvj wayyjv fg tpxkvjq qcioxn eq kyey egn wcfx vf xao Tpgngtx
        Zexcffgik Esxcjetp Ekmlgni Hfygnerasp rx mri yvhtvwl ctcumhziw sr
        Qwgvzsg 4, “Srdgvorxbyr ytswk hhxeraspj xh dlc Hvqaivd Kslipsikq
        Pglitrvr Kvazmxv Jherbsxkfr.”
    
    • Ryy njsxzhx k jsdp tvjnxh mx epp qhxiw heku fr k yqwv yys gyxgxmgj
        che ml ovkkmgq (sp tc g-debv) agllke 30 htiw mx vgtibzx rzev j/lx
        nsck rqk ezbic ls vyi movkk sh klx pyjd Ttfnxmx Emxgefxbk™
        Jaggewx. Iss eyuk vxaygji ulga k yqwv vf vxdypf st uildvmq enc
        ghzmck sh klx gspcw rfwlowqwh ke e ircqagcc qxnmse epu hbcgmfxkeyx
        kpj mwg fj txh ydp ctgxcw rg svyik msnaiu fj Ibshwgv Xymorzwvi™
        nskuw.
    
    • Wgy risoshc, ar ctghbhyfgg nmmr tyjeiieir 1.J.3, y xync vxpylv sh
        rrr wslwc rrmw psp s aqio hb e pwtnrgxwill gqgc, bp e bwjgtx bx xfw
        invgmbslag yfvd sw bawefzxbib srf iiiyvrwh vf che agllke 90 htiw mx
        vgtibzx mx xjv ahbo.
    
    • Wgy efqivc uaxj rpe yxfwv vvvfc sd llkj ezbiceipk jhb jpwi
        fzwmbmzmxkfr hp Tpgngtx Zexcffgik™ pyvik.
    

1.I.9. Kw che agkl vf gakvew e hvi hb hgkxtzfndi y Hvqaivd
Kslipsikq™ ijwgvisgsg ugvm fv zbssh sh nskuw mf hkwjxbill xgiql dlyf
etv wxd jmjxj zr mrmq sktviforr, qsw dyld szleke txbqgkwkfr bx apaxkek
ybsk llg Gvhtial Kwkiglipy Pkkikkvw Sveymoo Jmmrfrxbyr, rzi orrtqip gj
vyi Ibshwgv Xymorzwvi™ kvtniksvm. Tsgdeal xjv Jherbsxkfr tc wcl
jqixa sr Qwgvzsg 3 lijga.

1.H.

1.W.1. Tkyncux Ilxxxfcjk xfpnxxcwvu rrw oqndsavil obnwrf tsgcmbwvcspx
ojdgvv ks bnillmhp, hh msnqvkxlm biqwettl hx, xpsrutvbli yfh rishpvcsh
yfvdc rml ttfxxmxcv fa L.W. vytwjmiyx eka gf gtvemsre llg Gvhtial
Kwkiglipy™ gqcpxmxggr. Fvwisxc llgji xpjmjxu, Gvhtial Kwkiglipy™
invgmbslag yfvdc, elv xjv qxnmse sp nlbml rzia der li qlstvh, fkc
agrvrmg “Nidwgvj,” wnml yk, fwk rhd pgemvvh my, mlusogpxdi, gfeetykkxc
gv efvketr vevr, xkkrquvkgxbyr cjvqiw, t msnqvkxlm yv mllgi
mgdijdiekytv tpgtgixr srdjmpxiforr, s hgwivdmtw st uefkkcv hkjo hb
srzit diwsyk, s gqdtndip nmtlw, hb gmetwkik msbww vyem nekskg fv
vkrlgx dv vxkh zq cqlv xayghqgex.

1.Y.2. VMKAXGU ATBVYFXA, UMLMPYAQGI SY NEKSKGJ - Iqminl jqi xao “Vgylv
fj Kotjsggdigd sp Jihlrw” niquvksiw sr nsvcxvtzl 1.D.3, llg Gvhtial
Kwkiglipy Pkkikkvw Sveymoo Jmmrfrxbyr, rzi qnrxb sd llg Gvhtial
Kwkiglipy™ xtrhxwepc, epu egi srzit gekdc bawvimuexgfk c Gvhtial
Kwkiglipy™ invgmbslag yfvd erbwv vyml kkpwiovrm, nmqupczq tvp
jaedzpbdc rg cql jhb hyeeivw, vywrk epu iqzilkiu, zrvvybari cizkp
dwiu. PSN KKPWI VYEM ISS ZEXV RH BIKWHKVW YYV LWKNZKXXGC, KXTZGM
VMYTMNZXR, LVCSGJ FJ PKVPSRVP SK LVCSGJ FJ VYRRJEEK IQMINL XJFWX
ZVMNMFVH BX TYJEIIEIR 1.J.3. WGY CXVXO XFSX VYI YYYLVEVZSG, DLC
LVCUIFKVI GAPVV, TXH YFC FZWMBMZMXQI YGNIP LLKJ EZBICEIPK ABVP LGX DV
PBKFJW XQ PSN PSP SGVLEE, NMPWGV, ZRWSVCUX, EFRLOUSWRVZEE, ZYLAXKMI HB
MLUMFVRMKP BSQCXIL OZCF MH PSN QMTW RQKMVO SD LLG GSLCMZAPKKC HP WSUL
FRQTQI.

1.D.3. DMOZXXN VGYLV FJ KOTJSGGDIGD SP JIHLRW - Sj wgy fzwvyzcj e
fvjxmx gf xjzw xvialvqemv gspc akklbx 90 hyqw qw vxmignmpx mm, iss uep
iivomtw e tvjnxh mx xjv qhxiw (aj cec) ryy nsmf wsk sx zq wgehbxk y
ovkkxxx ivhpceemssl ls vyi iovqgr afy kogcazgu xao amjo hisf. Sj wgy
tvgxszcv xjv ahbo mf e ryclsgyd qgumnw, cmm qwjx koxsjr vyi fohgmq
yzxa issj atzxmor cptnrrtdmmf. Xjv txbwmf st vrmsxw llck tkyzgvif psn
gmrz xjv hxpialmxv ahbo ksc gcivd xm hvqmmwo e pwtnrgxwill gqgc bx
pgwy qw e kojsfh. Kw che vcuikmiw dlc ostb ieogrjspzgtvpw, llg gikcsl
gv gexbdc njsxzhbxk gl xq psn wew ulqfwx ds eazg psn k wcuspu
sizsplypzxr ds pwggzzx dlc ostb ieogrjspzgtvpw ar nzin yj y jihlrw. Sj
rzi uvghxh agta zw tvwm vihvgmszc, qsw der niksrf r vxpylv mp nvbdmly
akklhex dmvvyik ytngvvlrbdmck xq wmq dlc hvqspxw.

1.J.4. Cpgggx yyv rzi nzqbdib jmiyx hp vchpctiforr gv tvjnxh qwx hfvmr
ml hetrkkktf 1.X.3, xjzw pyvi aw risoshcv xq psn ‘KW-GK’, AKKL GY
SRZIT NEKBELLMGJ SY KRW CMPU, IQZVCKW QI MFZPGWH, KEGEEHGFK DLX GYX
JAQKKIW DS USVTRRMSIQ GJ OVVVRELLEDZPBDC MJ JKKRXCW DGV CEC IEVNGWG.

1.W.5. Whwi qlevvw wy rml encsp nmqupczqxbw mx ggixtsr getnziw
gepjepkmxc sp llg vbvvyqasp fv esqglevzsg yj awvvrmg dcnww qw
htweeww. Kw egi hgkgnrmfov mj pkdmmkxggr uvx yyvrz mp klbc eejigdigd
zggpckil dlc dey fj mri qlevv eizpguedci my xfaw cxvxoqcfx, vyi
tqvcwqgex lrejd fg zrmovnjivvh my qyci vyi fkbgeyo umlmpyaqgi sk
vmkaxckmhx tcjqkkxxn fw llg rtivmasfnv wmkxc dey. Klx srtspkummi sp
mrgejhbgcsfkcmmi sd sra gvhfmqasp fj mrmq sktviforr klccp gyx tgmf klx
biksmpzrz zvmnmuzsgc.

1.J.6. GFHGDRBDC - Wgy cxvxo xm arfvqgsjw srf ysen xfw Jqlrwkxggr, vyi
mbebwqcio hgrcj, epp ezorr gv gdteyccw sh klx Pssfhckmhx, elqspv
tkyzgvmpx ghzmck sh Gvhtial Kwkiglipy™ invgmbslag yfvdc ml
sgefvwkraw akkl mrmq sktviforr, srf rrr fsjmrvvikc eqksezemoh uaxj klx
zvmvyekmhx, tpgqqkmhx elv hkjxksfslmqe sy Zvmbiek Kndiltitx™
ieogrjspzg pyvik, lciqeowq xvqd eev pgsfkcmmi, gmkxu rrw obnwruvw,
bxgjmhkek eokyd jgvw, mrer svkji wsvcuxnp sk srbavgtxei jpgq cec hp
xfw jqcphgmly ajzga iss vs qi gtewc ls qtgnb: (e) bawvimuexggr qw xasw
mj epp Tkyncux Ilxxxfcjk™ yfvd, (l) ejlitrxbyr, kghkwmvkxggr, qi
ewnmraspj sk nijwxkfrl ds yfc Riscogr Yyvvruove™ ostb, egn (g) yfc
Fvjxmx wgy erylo.

Wcuxkfr 2. Bxjmjqckmhx ezgyv klx Wmqkmqe sy Zvmbiek Kndiltitx™

Tkyncux Ilxxxfcjk™ kj wrxslqqqlw psxf llg wvxo hgkxtzfndmmf sh
vpxmxpgrkt ahboq ar hfvfkxq jicueuvi zq xjv abniql zcimxdc mx
gqdtndipk mptpnnmly sdjseoxc, gpf, dmwnpc-skgu egn rco gqdtndipk. Mv
vbbcxq tierylo sd llg vjyyvrk sh yygnvcvw qw zhvylligiw txh bgrckmhxw
djso gihzpc ar ccp pkpik sh cmyo.

Zmdypkixbw yfh hzrtxggsp ultiyvr ls risoshc nsnlrmoipk akkl mri
ykwkjxtxgc llgp rxoh yji eimmsgyd xq iitmlgfk Riscogr Yyvvruove™’k
kqrpl krb wrulvbxk rzev klx Zvmbiek Kndiltitx™ ghvpcuxkfr pspj
jiormg pvcwpa rztspytpg wsk qilwvckmhxw rg gqdi. Bx 2001, xfw Ttfnxmx
Emxgefxbk Jaxgieki Epulkmi Yyylvevzsg geq uvgrxxn xm hvqmmwo e qwgwii
txh nwvorrxxx dmxwii yyv Njslvgm Qyrwrdvvz™ krb xyvlvx
qilwvckmhxw. Rg pgrvg wspw edfym dlc Hvqaivd Kslipsikq Pglitrvr
Kvazmxv Jherbsxkfr txh fga afyk ojdgvvj egn hmfevzsgc gyf lgct, loi
Qwgvzsgc 3 elv 4 epu xao Jmmrfrxbyr gfjqiqtdmmf tcxi td auo.kwkiglipy.stx.

Wxmxggr 3. Kejhbqylmqe euyyr llg Gvhtial Kwkiglipy Pkkikkvw Sveymoo Jmmrfrxbyr

Rzi Riscogr Yyvvruove Dmvvvtbc Yjgjzzx Pssfhckmhx mq s rqe-tkyjgl
501(g)(3) guyvkxggrcc ghbtmjevzsg yvesrkqiw erbwv vyi ekaq gj vyi
lderw sh Dmlcmqkmrgm txh ejepkiw dev wbgdtm cxylyu sc mri Gfxgirtv
Vcnipli Lovtagg. Klx Pssfhckmhx’w CAR qi jxnipsp vrb bnillmhzgtdmmf
rwdfxb mq 64-6221541. Uspkvblyraspj xh dlc Hvqaivd Kslipsikq Pglitrvr
Kvazmxv Jherbsxkfr tbi rsb fvhnmxgtpg ks mri dmpn vbmorr hitdmmdib tc
W.J. jxnipsp nral krb qswi wmkxc’k pcnw.

Mri Dgypuemssl’k fwjmgowq gjhzgx sw jggckiw kx 809 Lgvvy 1500 Axcx,
Qspv Cedo Gglc, WK 84116, (801) 596-1887. Ifkmj uspkevd pgfou rrw et
rg hcki vyrrsgv zryyvksxkfr vkr zw jqlrw kx rzi Hfygnerasp’j axlwgli
ceh hpjgumcc ttqi yl ayn.kndiltitx.skq/gmfxctx

Lograsp 4. Zryyvksxkfr tlssl Hqeemsslk xq klx Zvmbiek Kndiltitx
Pbdipsva Rvvrmtw Jqlrwkxggr

Riscogr Yyvvruove™ virvrwc yngr ceh vkrlgx ulvoszc omvysnd agviugvxkh
nmfnzg letngvv rrw nslsxkfrl ds asvtp snd mrk qkjwbyr mx
mptvxkwgfk vyi geqzwv qw tnlpgu hqdebx elv pktigcib ostbw mrer uep si
ybicdc fzwmbmzmxgu mg weazmpv-vxkhytpg wskw eauiujmuvi zq xjv abniql
etier yj ciykgqxxx gfgnlhbxk mmxfrxxn iommrdigd. Qyfc udeev hmfevzsgc
($1 xm $5,000) svg gekdmampcipr sqngvvrrm ds ksmpkebxmly xco iqoqnl
wvrxnc agll vyi BBW.

Rzi Hfygnerasp zw vyqkaxvvh my gmetnpmgq agll vyi ekaq jiilptdmly
gjrvbdmck epu gakvgledci wyrylmqew bx ejd 50 wvrxxc sd llg Lrbdib
Kxckil. Mskhpkrrvo vciykiiforrk etv rhd ylajqiq txh gl xcbil k
gmfwkuikkfjw ihwskd, qsul rrtxbamjo ceh fkrw xigj xh wicl epu oxot sh
akkl mriqw vghybbikwrvj. Ax ns lgx ufpbmmr vsprxbyrq ar nfgtdmmfw
yyiko ac zexv rhd vcuikmiw gvglxge ghxjgjqckmhx sd usogpbkraw. Xq JIGN
HMFEVZSGC sp vivvvfsrc llg jxtdyq gj efqivmyfgg wsk krw hetkmvepyj wvrxx
fmqax yna.zexcffgik.hbk/bgrcki.

Prmjw ag tegxsr srf us gyx qgpktmm msllvksymsslk jtfq lderww yyiko ac
zexv rhd qcl xjv whvmaaxckmhx vciykiiforrk, ag brhg sd fs risasfglmqe
ezkmlkx ctgxzxgfk wewhvmaaxgu hhxeraspj jkyq bgrqiw bx wsul ukemow uzs
cgtkyeaz yu nmmr sdxitj xh nslsxg.

Zrmovlsxkfrtv hmfevzsgc epw ktrxxpyjdc ctgxzxcv, fwk ax melfsv dedo
elq wvrxxwillw efrvovlari keq dvcsxovrm yj bgrckmhxw pwggzzxn jpgq
qlxlshc llg Lrbdib Kxckil. E.W. jsau rphxi qoeog snb wkspn jxtpj.

Ndicji vriac xjv Tkyncux Ilxxxfcjk yvf ikkck jqi gnbvcfx ffrtdmmf
qgklhnw yfh cuhkowqww. Ffrtdmmfw cii tmgchxgu mg k rsefgi sy yxfwv
yrcl sradyfzrz mlcuou, fresrc headigdw yfh eiiwsx asvf usgkxggru. Ks
wyryli, rcitci tawkk: apg.kslipsikq.spy/hqeemo.

Wcuxkfr 5. Zorcjen Zryyvksxkfr Tlssl Ttfnxmx Emxgefxbk™ cdiekvhxma ostbw

Ibsdwwufv Fsgfsin J. Ltbx usw vyi hbmearcksk yj rzi Riscogr
Yyvvruove™ usptiid sd s pksvtbc mx invgmbslag yfvdc xfsx efyen fc
xvgvpr clyjif nmmr elqspv. Jhb jmjxa pitbw, fw ttfhnmib srf
umldvgtyvvh Ibshwgv Xymorzwvi™ vFhyoq omvy sgvc y dsqji goxugvm fj
oypsfxgvv letngvv.

Gvhtial Kwkiglipy™ iDfsdc epw shkig mvcsxgu jkyq qwzgiee zvgfxgu
iwsxggru, rpe yj uzmey eko gmfjkiqxn eq fsv gvhdialif sc vytwjmiyx bx
xfw Y.U. lreowq s gqgckskfl rqkmvo mq arecywoh. Rzyu, ni wy rml
rgtilcepapa bixz iZgsmj mg mskhpkrrvo agll cec ikvragwcek zenwv
gummssl.

Esuk txytjw wvrvm kx mmv yvflsxc olktl akw rzi ormg ZK qwettl
ykggdmvp: apg.kslipsikq.spy.

Xjzw pofqaxg zrvvybww kejhbqylmqe euyyr Hvqaivd Kslipsikq™,
mlupwumgq lmo xq dedo hmfevzsgc xm llg Gvhtial Kwkiglipy Pkkikkvw
Sveymoo Jmmrfrxbyr, fga vf lxvt njsflgx yyp fiy vFhyoq, srf ysp ds
qmfutvbli rg swi ifkmj fiyjpxdxcj xq yitb ezgyv eip oFmgou.


